---

title: Semiconductor integrated circuit and system
abstract: An internal circuit has a plurality of circuit blocks operating by receiving an internal power supply voltage. An internal voltage control circuit generates a plurality of regulator control signals according to a combination of operating circuit blocks. A plurality of regulators operate in response to activation of the regulator control signals respectively to generate the internal power supply voltage by using an external power supply voltage. For example, as the number of the operating circuit blocks increases, the number of the operating regulators increases. By thus generating the regulator control signals according to the actual operation of the internal circuit to control the operations of the regulators, it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage to a minimum. As a result, an operating margin of a semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved and a yield of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08284619&OS=08284619&RS=08284619
owner: Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited
number: 08284619
owner_city: Yokohama
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080606
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 152390 filed on Jun. 8 2007 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present embodiments relate to a semiconductor integrated circuit having an internal voltage generation circuit generating an internal power supply voltage by using an external power supply voltage.

Generally in a semiconductor integrated circuit such as a semiconductor memory an internal circuit is operated by an internal power supply voltage which is generated by stepping down an external power supply voltage. Current consumption of the internal circuit varies according to an operation state of the circuit. Therefore as the current consumption increases the internal power supply voltage decreases and as the current consumption decreases the internal power supply voltage increases. Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 5 334879 and Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2003 59260 disclose art for preventing the variation in the internal power supply voltage.

According to one aspect of an embodiment a semiconductor integrated circuit is provided which comprises an internal circuit having a plurality of circuit blocks operating by receiving an internal power supply voltage an internal voltage control circuit generating a plurality of regulator control signals according to a combination of operating circuit blocks and an internal voltage generation circuit having a plurality of regulators which operate in response to activation of the respective regulator control signals to generate the internal power supply voltage by using an external power supply voltage.

Hereinafter embodiments will be described using the drawings. In the drawings each signal line shown by the heavy line is constituted of a plurality of lines. Part of blocks to which the heavy lines are connected is constituted of a plurality of circuits. Each signal line through which the signal is transmitted is denoted by the same reference symbol as the signal name. Each signal starting with or ending with X represents negative logic. Each signal ending with Z represents positive logic. Each double circle in the drawings represents an external terminal.

The clock buffer outputs a clock signal CLK as an internal clock signal ICLK when logic level of a clock enable signal CKE is high. The internal clock signal ICLK is supplied to circuits operating in synchronization with the clock signal CLK such as the command decoder the address buffer the data input output buffer the mode register and the operation control circuit .

The command decoder outputs a command access request recognized according to logic levels of a first chip enable signal CE a second chip enable signal CE a write enable signal WE and an output enable signal OE as a clock enable signal CKE causing the clock buffer to output the internal clock signal ICLK a deep power down signal DPDZ for causing the internal voltage control circuit to execute a deep power down mode DPD a read command signal RECZ read command a write command signal WRCZ write command and a mode register set signal MRSZ mode register set command which cause the execution of an access operation of the memory core and so forth. In response to low logic level of the second chip enable signal CE the memory MEM stops the operation of its internal circuits and the internal voltage control circuit enters the deep power down mode in which all regulators of the internal voltage generation circuit are stopped. In response to a change of the second chip enable signal CE to high logic level the internal voltage control circuit exits from the deep power down mode to return to a normal operation mode. The read command RECZ and the write command WRCZ are external access requests for access operations to the memory core . The first chip enable signal CE is supplied to set the memory MEM active.

The refresh control circuit has an oscillator outputting a refresh request signal RREQZ at a predetermined cycle. Upon power on of the memory MEM the starter circuit outputs a starter signal STTZ based on an external power supply voltage VDD and an internal power supply voltage VII in order to reset internal circuits such as latches requiring resetting. Operations at the power on time PON are illustrated in .

The operation control circuit outputs a plurality of kinds of operation control signals a word activation signal WLZ a sense amplifier activation signal SAZ a precharge control signal BRSZ a column activation signal CLZ an activation signal ACTZ a read command signal REZ a write command signal WRZ a refresh signal REFZ and a restore signal RESTZ controlling operations of circuit blocks such as a row decoder RDEC a sense amplifier SA and a column switch CSW in order to cause the memory core to execute a read operation a write operation and a refresh operation in response to the read command RECZ the write command WRCZ and the refresh request RREQZ. The word activation signal WLZ controls the activation timing of a word line WL and the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ controls the activation timing of the sense amplifier SA. The precharge control signal BRSZ controls ON OFF of a precharge circuit PRE. The column activation signal CLZ controls ON OFF of the column switch CSW. The activation signal ACTZ is activated in response to the activation of the first chip enable signal CE. The refresh signal REFZ is activated when the refresh operation is to be executed. The restore signal RESTZ is activated when data held in the memory cell MC is rewritten. The restore signal RESTZ is kept active during a predetermined period starting from rising edges of the word activation signal WLZ and the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ which are generated in response to the external access requests RECZ WRCZ.

An arbiter ARB of the operation control circuit decides which of the external access requests RECZ WRCZ or the refresh request RREQZ should be given priority when they conflict with each other. For example when the refresh request RREQZ is supplied during a read operation the arbiter ARB withholds a refresh operation responding to the refresh request RREQZ until the read operation is completed. At this time the refresh signal REFZ is activated in response to the inactivation of the read command signal REZ the completion of the read operation and is kept active for a predetermined period. On the other hand when the read command RECZ is supplied during a refresh operation a read operation responding to the read command RECZ is withheld until the refresh signal REFZ is inactivated after the refresh operation responding to the refresh request RREQZ is completed. Then the arbiter ARB activates the read command signal REZ when the read operation is to be executed. The same applies to the write command WRCZ. The arbiter ARB activates the write command signal WRZ when a write operation is to be executed.

The mode register is set according to a level of an address signal AD supplied with the mode register set signal MRSZ. For example the mode register sets a page operation mode synchronous operation mode or a burn in mode test mode . The mode register activates a page signal PGZ when the page operation mode is set and activates a burn in signal BIZ when the burn in mode is set.

In the page operation mode at the time of the read operation a data signal DQ is output a plurality of times from the memory MEM in response to one supply of the read command signal REZ. At the time of the write operation a data signal DQ is supplied to the memory MEM a plurality of times in response to one supply of the write command signal WRZ. Incidentally operating specifications of the memory MEM such as burst length and data latency may be set in the mode register . The burst length is the number of times data is output from a data terminal DQ in response to one supply of the read command signal REZ and the number of times data is received at the data terminal DQ in response to one supply of the write command signal WRZ. The burst length set in the mode register becomes valid in the page operation mode. In the page operation mode a burst access operation a synchronous read operation and a synchronous write operation is executed. In operation modes except the page operation mode a single access operation an asynchronous read operation and an asynchronous write operation is executed. The data latency CL is the number of cycles in a period from the receipt of the read command RECZ to the output of the first read data DQ. Details of the page operation mode synchronous read operation SRE synchronous write operation SWR the deep power down mode DPD and the burn in mode BI are illustrated in . and .

The internal voltage control circuit operates by receiving the external power supply voltage VDD and outputs regulator control signals RCX RCX and resistor control signals RESX RESX load control signals which control the generation of the internal power supply voltage VII according to the command signals REZ WRZ access request the operation mode control signals PGZ DPDZ BIZ the operation control signals ACTZ RESTZ CLZ and the refresh signal REFZ refresh request . Details of the internal voltage control circuit are illustrated in .

The internal voltage generation circuit generates the internal power supply voltage VII according to the regulator control signals RCX and the resistor control signals RESX . The internal power supply voltage VII is used as a high level voltage of bit lines BL BL and power supply voltages of the operation control circuit the mode register the address selector a data control circuit and so on. Details of the internal voltage generation circuit are illustrated in and .

The refresh address counter sequentially generates a refresh address signal RRAD in synchronization with a refresh end signal RENDZ indicating the end of a refresh operation. The refresh address RRAD is a row address signal for selecting a word line WL. When receiving the address signal AD the address buffer outputs the received address as a row address signal RAD and a column address signal CAD. In this embodiment the row address signal RAD and the column address signal CAD are received at dedicated address terminals AD respectively. That is the row address signal RAD and the column address signal CAD are simultaneously supplied with the read command RECZ or the write command WRCZ. The row address signal RAD is supplied for selecting a word line WL. The column address signal CAD is supplied for selecting bit lines BL BL.

The address selector selects the refresh address signal RRAD when the refresh operation is to be executed REFZ H while selecting the row address signal RAD when the refresh operation is not to be executed REFZ L and outputs the selected signal as an internal row address signal IRAD to the memory core .

When receiving a write data signal via the data terminal DQ the data input output buffer outputs the received data signal to a data bus DB. Further when receiving a read data signal from a memory cell MC via the data bus DB the data input output buffer outputs the received data signal to the data terminal DQ. During a write operation the data control circuit converts serial internal data signals IDQ write data into parallel data to output the parallel data to the data bus DB. During a read operation the data control circuit converts parallel read data on the data bus DB into serial data to output the serial data as the internal data signal IDQ. For example a bit width of the data bus DB is twice as large as a bit width of the data terminal DQ 16 data terminals and a 32 bit data bus .

The memory core has a memory cell array ARY the row decoder RDEC the precharge circuit PRE the sense amplifier SA the column switch CSW a column decoder CDEC a read amplifier RA and a write amplifier WA. The memory cell array ARY the row decoder RDEC the precharge circuit RPE the sense amplifier SA the column switch CSW the column decoder CDEC the read amplifier RA and the write amplifier WA are circuit blocks forming the memory core .

The memory cell array ARY has a plurality of dynamic memory cells MC a plurality of word lines WL each coupled to an array of the memory cells MC disposed in line in the horizontal direction in a plurality of bit lines BL BL each coupled to an array of the memory cells MC disposed in line in the vertical direction in . Each of the memory cells MC has a capacitor for holding data as an electric charge and a transfer transistor for coupling one end of the capacitor to the bit line BL or BL . The other end of the capacitor is coupled to a precharge voltage line. A gate of the transfer transistor is coupled to the word line WL. Upon selection of the word line WL one of a read operation a write operation and a refresh operation is executed.

The row decoder RDEC decodes the internal row address signal IRAD in order to select one of the word lines WL and supplies a high level voltage for example a boosted voltage to the selected word line WL. That is the row decoder RDEC has a function of a word driver driving the word line WL. The precharge circuit PRE couples the bit line pair BL BL to the precharge voltage line in synchronization with the precharge control signal BRSZ during a non access period of the memory cells MC. The sense amplifier SA is coupled to the bit line pair BL BL and in synchronization with the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ amplifies a difference in signal amount of data read to the bit line pair BL BL.

The column decoder CDEC decodes the column address signal CAD in order to select the bit line pair BL BL to from which a data signal is to be input output. The column switch CSW couples the bit lines BL BL corresponding to the column address signal CAD to the read amplifier RA or the write amplifier WA and the data bus DB in synchronization with the column activation signal CLZ. During a read access operation the read amplifier RA amplifies complementary read data output via the column switch CSW during a write access operation the write amplifier WA amplifies complementary write data supplied via the data bus DB to supply the resultant to the bit line pair BL BL.

In the generation circuit RCXG the regulator control signal RCX is kept activated to low logic level only while the deep power down signal DPDZ is inactive. The regulator control signals RCX are kept inactivated to high logic level while the deep power down signal DPDZ is active. Further the regulator control signals RCX are kept activated to low logic level during an activation period of the burst in signal BIZ during an activation period of the starter signal STTZ or during an activation period of the refresh signal REFZ. Further the regulator control signal RCX is kept activated to low logic level during an activation period of the read command signal REZ or the write command signal WRZ. The regulator control signal RCX is kept activated to low logic level during an activation period of the column activation signal CLZ an activation period of the restore signal RESTZ or an activation period of the read command signal REZ in the asynchronous read operation. The regulator control signal RCX is kept activated to low logic level during an activation period of the restore signal RESTZ or an activation period of the read command signal REZ in the asynchronous read operation.

In the generation circuit RESXG the resistor control signal RESX is kept activated to low logic level during an inactivation period of one of the regulator control signals RCX while the resistor control signal RESX and the deep power down signal DPDZ are inactive. The resistor control signal RESX is kept activated to low logic level during an inactivation period of the regulator control signals RCX while the regulator control signal RCX is active. The resistor control signals RESX are generated by using the regulator control signals RCX . Generating the resistor control signals RESX by using logic of the generation circuit RCXG makes it possible to reduce logic scale of the internal voltage control circuit . As a result chip size of the memory MEM can be reduced.

Each of the regulators RGL has a switch SW SW and an nMOS transistor NM NM which are disposed in series between an external power supply line VDD and an internal power supply line VII. The transistors NM have gates coupled to a constant voltage line VG sources coupled to the internal power supply line VII and drains coupled to the switches SW respectively. Numerical values W W W and W appended to the transistors NM indicate a ratio of gate widths of the transistors NM . The larger the numerical value the higher the current supply capability. The transistors NM are equal in channel length. Thus the regulators RGL differ in supply capability for supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII to which the internal power supply voltage VII is supplied.

The switches SW are formed by pMOS transistors PM . The transistors PM have gates coupled to regulator control signal lines RCX respectively sources coupled to the external power supply line VDD and drains coupled to drains of the transistors NM respectively. The voltage generator VGEN receives the external power supply voltage VDD to generate the constant voltage VG for turning on the transistors NM .

Each of the load circuits LD has a switch SW SW and a resistor element RES hereinafter referred to as resistors RES which are disposed in series between the internal power supply line VII and a ground line VSS. For example the resistors RES are formed by using diffusion layers. Numerical values R and R appended to the resistors RES indicate a ratio of their resistance. The switches SW are formed by pMOS transistors PM . The transistors PM have gates coupled to resistor control signal lines RESX respectively sources coupled to the internal power supply line VII and drains coupled to the resistors RES respectively.

In the internal voltage generation circuit illustrated in in response to the activation of the regulator control signals RCX RCX the switches SW SW turn on and the regulators RGL RGL operate. Consequently a power supply current electric charge is supplied to the internal power supply line VII to increase the internal power supply voltage VII. Further in response to the activation of the resistor control signals RESX RESX the switches SW SW turn on so that the internal power supply line VII is coupled to the ground line VSS via the resistors RES RES . Consequently the power supply current electric charge flows to the ground line VSS from the internal power supply line VII so that the internal power supply voltage VII lowers.

A standby mode period STBY is a period in which the first chip enable signal CE with high logic level is supplied. In the standby period STBY current consumption is extremely low since the internal circuits do not operate. At this time only the regulator RGL with the lowest drivability turns on. Further in order to prevent the internal power supply voltage VII from becoming higher than an expected level only the load circuit LD with the lowest drivability turns on.

In a refresh operation REF responding to the refresh request REFZ and an asynchronous read operation RE responding to the read request REZ the word line WL and the sense amplifier SA are activated in a short time and a restore operation is executed. In the refresh operation REF and the asynchronous read operation RE current consumption is high and therefore all the regulators RGL are on and all the load circuits LD are off. The refresh operation REF is the same as the asynchronous read operation RE except in that data signal on the bit lines BL BL is not output to an external part of the memory MEM in the refresh operation REF.

In the asynchronous write operation WR and the synchronous write operation SWR responding to the write request WRZ and in the synchronous read operation SRE responding to the read request REZ operations of the regulators RGL and the load circuits LD are changed according to sub operations included in each of the operations. That is the regulator control signals RCX and the resistor control signals RESX are generated according to the combination of operating circuit blocks.

Concretely in the restore operation REST in which the row decoder RDEC and the sense amplifier SA start their operations and data read from the memory cell MC is rewritten all the regulators RGL are on and all the load circuits LD are off. In a column operation CL in which the column switch CSW turns on in response to the operation of the column decoder CDEC to couple the bit lines BL BL to the data bus DB the regulators RGL are on and the load circuit LD are on. In the column operation CL the data input output buffer and the data control circuit operate in order to input output the data signal DQ to from the data terminal. Therefore current consumption of the column operation CL is higher than current consumption of the standby period STBY and a later described ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA.

During the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA in which neither the restore operation REST nor the column operation CL is executed in the asynchronous write operation WR the synchronous read operation SRE and the synchronous write operation SWR the regulators RL are on and the load circuit LD is on. The ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA is a static period in which the amplified state of a data signal on the bit lines BL BL is kept after the data signal is amplified by the sense amplifier SA. Therefore current consumption of the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA is lower than current consumption of the column operation CL and is higher than current consumption of the standby period STBY.

In the deep power down mode DPD all the regulators RGL are off and all the load circuits LD are off. Consequently the generation of the internal power supply voltage VII is stopped and current consumption of the memory MEM is the lowest. In the power on operation PON all the regulators RGL are on and all the load circuits LD are off in order to quickly increase the internal power supply voltage VII. In the burn in operation BI all the regulators RGL are on and all the load circuits LD are off in order to give stress to the transistors.

The refresh operation REF is dividable into the restore operation REST and the On operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA similarly to the synchronous read operation SRE. The asynchronous read operation RE similarly to the synchronous read operation SRE is dividable into the restore operation REST the column operation CL and the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA. However in the refresh operation REF and the asynchronous read operation RE the restore operation REST and the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA or the column operation CL are successively executed in a short time. Therefore only the restore operation REST is executed and no change of the regulators RGL and the load circuits LD take place.

On the other hand in the asynchronous write operation WR and the synchronous write operation SWR current consumption during a period after the restore operation REST up to the receipt of write data is low and current consumption when data on the bit lines BL BL is inverted by write data is high. Therefore the operations of the regulators RGL and the load circuits LD are changed more frequently than in the asynchronous read operation RE. In the synchronous read operation SRE the column operation CL whose current consumption is relatively low take places a plurality of times. In order to optimally set the internal power supply voltage VII according to the current consumption of the plural column operations CL the operations of the regulators RGL and the load circuits LD are more frequently changed than in the asynchronous read operation RE.

For example in this system SYS a program and data stored in the flash memory FLASH are transferred to the memory MEM upon power on of the system SYS. Thereafter the CPU executes the program transferred to the memory MEM in order realize a function of the system SYS and reads data held in the memory MEM or writes data to be held in the memory MEM. The CPU outputs an access request for accessing the memory MEM and a write data signal WDT and receives a read data signal RDT from the memory MEM. Further the CPU outputs an access request for accessing the flash memory FLASH.

In synchronization with the activation of the refresh signal REFZ the internal voltage control circuit activates the regulator control signals RCX and inactivates the resistor control signals RESX . Since the refresh operation REF is executed in response to the refresh request signal RREQZ generated internally in the memory MEM the activation signal ACTZ is not activated . One of the word lines WL is activated in synchronization with the word activation signal WLZ . In response to the activation of the word line WL data is read from the memory cell MC to the bit line BL or BL . Next the sense amplifier SA starts an amplification operation in synchronization with the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ to amplify a voltage difference between the bit line pair BL BL . Then read data signal amplified on the bit lines BL BL is rewritten back to the memory cell MC. That is the restore operation is executed and the refresh operation REF is completed.

In the asynchronous read operation RE the read command REZ is kept active during an activation period of the output enable signal OE . First the restore operation REST is executed as in the refresh operation REF illustrated in . During the execution of the restore operation REST the restore signal RESTZ is active . Next the column activation signal CLZ is activated to turn on the column switch CSW so that the column operation CL is executed . In the column operation CL the read data signal on the bit line pair BL BL amplified by the sense amplifier SA is output to the data terminal DQ. Waveforms of the word activation signal WLZ the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ and the bit line pair BL BL are the same as those in the refresh operation REF.

In the asynchronous write operation WR the write command signal WRZ is kept active during an activation period of the write enable signal WE . First the restore operation REST is executed as in the refresh operation REF illustrated in . During the execution of the restore operation REST the restore signal RESTZ is active . Waveforms of the word activation signal WLZ the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ and the bit line pair BL BL in the restore operation REST are the same as those in the refresh operation REF. During the restore operation REST the regulators RGL are on and the resistor control signals RESX are off .

Next the column activation signal CLZ is activated to turn on the column switch CSW so that the column operation CL is executed . In the column operation CL a write data signal received at the data terminal DQ is supplied to the memory core . If logic of the write data signal is inverse to logic of the read data signal amplified on the bit line pair BL BL the logic of the bit line pair BL BL is inverted . During the column operation CL the regulator RGL are on and the resistor control signal RESX is on . In the asynchronous write operation WR a period except periods of the restore operation REST and the column operation CL is a period of the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA. During the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA the regulators RGL are on and the resistor control signal RESX is on .

In the synchronous read operation SRE the read command signal REZ is kept active during an activation period of the output enable signal OE . First the restore operation REST is executed as in the refresh operation REF illustrated in . Waveforms in the restore operation REST are the same as those in the asynchronous write operation WR. That is the regulators RGL are on and the resistor control signals RESX are off .

Next the column activation signal CLZ is activated the number of times equal to the burst length in this example 4 set in the mode register . The operation during an activation period of the column activation signal CLZ column operation CL is the same as that in the asynchronous read operation RE illustrated in . In the synchronous read operation SRE a period except periods of the restore operation REST and the column operation CL is a period of the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA. Waveforms of the regulator control signals RCX and the resistor control signals RESX in the column operation CL and the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA are the same as those in the asynchronous write operation WR .

During a period in which logic level of the starter signal STTZ is high in the power on period PON the regulator control signals RCX are active and the resistor control signals RESX are inactive . This enables a quick increase in the internal power supply voltage VII at the power on time.

In this example during the burn in mode BI the word activation signal WLZ is active and all the word lines WL are set to a boosted voltage . Further the sense amplifier activation signal SAZ is active and all the bit line pairs BL BL are set to high level or low level . The level of the bit lines BL BL is set according to logic of a data signal written to the memory cell MC before the entry to the burn in mode BI. Then the burn in test is executed. Incidentally during the burn in mode BI levels of the first chip enable signal CE the write enable signal WE and the output enable signal OE may be either high logic level H or low logic level L.

Further in addition to the number of the regulators RGL the number of the load circuits LD coupling the internal power supply line VII to the ground line VSS is changed according to the current consumption state of the internal circuits of the memory MEM. This can surely prevent the internal power supply voltage VII from exceeding an upper limit level VIImax in for example an operation state where the current consumption is relatively low. Concretely in the ON operation SAON of the sense amplifier SA and the column operation CL current consumed by the sense amplifier SA and so on differs depending on logic of a write data signal or a read data signal. When the memory MEM is designed the number of the regulators RGL operating in each of the operations SAON CL is decided according to the maximum current consumption. Therefore if a logic pattern of a data signal is a pattern with low current consumption the internal power supply voltage VII might exceed the upper limit level VIImax without the load circuits LD . In other words by linking the number of the operating regulators among the regulators RGL and the number of operating circuits among the load circuits LD with each other it is possible to keep the internal power supply voltage VII at around the expected level VIItyp for example 1.6V . Incidentally the pattern with low current consumption is for example a pattern when in the write operations WR SWR logic of a data signal read from the memory cell MC by the restore operation REST and logic of a write data signal are the same.

Before this embodiment was proposed drivability of a regulator generating the internal power supply voltage VII is changed depending on a standby period and an activation period for instance. In this case in the write operation for instance current consumption of the memory core temporarily decreases during a period from the completion of the restore operation REST up to the supply of write data to the bit lines BL BL. At this time there was a risk that the internal power supply voltage VII may exceed the tolerable upper limit level VIImax as shown by the arrow A in . If the upper limit level VIImax is exceeded a high voltage is given to the gate of the transistor and so on resulting in deteriorated reliability of the transistor.

As described above in the first embodiment the number of the operating regulators RGL is changed for example according to the number of the operating circuit blocks or is changed according to the operation of the circuit blocks requiring high power consumption. By changing the operating regulators RGL according to the actual operation of the internal circuits it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage VII to a minimum. In particular by generating the regulator control signals according to the operation control signals WLZ SAZ CLZ and so on it is possible to change the number of the operating regulators RGL in the read operation and the write operation according to the actual operations of the circuit blocks. As a result it is possible to improve an operating margin of the memory MEM and improve a yield of the memory MEM.

By changing the number of the operating load circuits LD in addition to changing the number of the operating regulators RGL it is possible to prevent the internal power supply voltage VII from increasing to the tolerable level or above. That is by generating the regulator control signals RCX and the load control signals RESX according to the actual operations of the internal circuits to control the operations of the regulators RGL and the load circuits LD it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage VII to a minimum.

The internal voltage generation circuit A has an nMOS transistor NM operating as a high resistance resistor in place of the resistor RES of the internal voltage generation circuit illustrated in . The internal voltage generation circuit A further has a voltage generator VGEN. The voltage generator VGEN generates a constant voltage VCMN for turning on the transistor NM when receiving an external power supply voltage VDD. That is in this embodiment a load circuit LD includes the transistor NM. A resistance ratio of the load circuits LD 1 100 is the same as that in the first embodiment.

Specifically in this embodiment the load circuit LD with a low resistance has a switch SW and a resistor element RES which are disposed in series between an internal power supply line VII and a ground line VSS. The load circuit LD with a high resistance has a switch SW and the transistor NM which are disposed in series between the internal power supply line VII and the ground line VSS.

In this embodiment the load circuit LD with the low resistance includes the resistor element RES in which a current amount changes according to an ohmic characteristic. Therefore when current consumption of internal circuits decreases a current flowing through the load circuit LD increases in accordance with an increase in an internal power supply voltage VII. On the other hand when current consumption of the internal circuits increases and the internal power supply voltage VII lowers a current flowing through the load circuit LD decreases. This can prevent useless current consumption. Forming the load circuit LD with the high resistance by a resistor element would necessitate an increase in layout size in order to ensure accuracy of the resistance. The use of the transistor NM to form the load circuit LD makes it possible to reduce the layout size.

The foregoing second embodiment can provide the same effects as those of the above described first embodiment. In addition in this embodiment since the high resistance resistor element of the load circuit LD is formed by using the transistor NM it is possible to reduce the layout size of the load circuit LD. As a result chip size of the semiconductor memory MEM can be reduced.

The operation control circuit B outputs a word activation signal WLZ a sense amplifier activation signal SAZ a precharge control signal BRSZ a column activation signal CLZ and a refresh signal REFZ in order to cause the memory core to execute a read operation a write operation and a refresh operation in response to a read command signal REZ a write command signal WRZ and a refresh request RREQZ. The operation control circuit B is the same as the operation control circuit of the first embodiment except in that it outputs neither the activation signal ACTZ nor the restore signal RESTZ.

The internal voltage control circuit B outputs regulator control signals RCX according to a level of an internal power supply voltage VII. The internal voltage control circuit B does not output the resistor control signals RESX . Details of the internal voltage control circuit B are illustrated in . The internal voltage generation circuit B generates the internal power supply voltage VII according to the regulator control signals RCX . Details of the internal voltage generation circuit B are shown in .

The reference voltage generation circuit RVGEN generates a first reference voltage RV for example 1.0 V in response to an external power supply voltage VDD for example 3.0 V . The reference voltage generation circuit RVGN generates a second reference voltage RV for example 0.9 V in response to the external power supply voltage VDD. The reference voltages RV are constant voltages independent of the power supply voltage VDD.

The monitor circuit MON has resistors RES disposed in series between an internal power supply line VII and a ground line VSS. The monitor circuit MON outputs a monitor voltage VM which follows the internal power supply voltage VII from a coupling node of the resistors RES . The monitor voltage VM is 0.95 V when the internal power supply voltage VII is 1.6 V expected level . The monitor circuit MON further operates as a load circuit. Therefore no load circuit is required in the internal voltage generation circuit B illustrated in . If the monitor circuit MON does not have a sufficient function as the load circuit the same load circuits LD as those of the first embodiment may be added.

The monitor voltage VM is easily adjustable according to resistance of the resistors RES . Therefore for example in a case where the reference voltage generation circuits RVGEN have already been designed the monitor voltage VM can be easily set so as to conform to the specifications of the reference voltage generation circuits RVGEN . Or if the comparators COMP have already been designed the monitor voltage VM can be easily set so as to conform to the specifications of the comparators COMP . As a result it is possible to shorten a design period of the internal voltage control circuit B.

The comparator COMP outputs high level when the monitor voltage VM is higher than the reference voltage RV and outputs low level when the monitor voltage VM is lower than the reference voltage RV. The comparator COMP outputs high level when the monitor voltage VM is lower than the reference voltage RV and outputs low level when the monitor voltage VM is higher than the reference voltage RV. The logic circuit LOGIC outputs signal corresponding to the output level of the comparator COMP as an output signal OUTA first detection signal and outputs signal corresponding to the output level of the comparator COMP as an output signal OUTB second detection signal . In other words the logic circuit LOGIC sets the output signal OUTA to high logic level when the monitor voltage VM is higher than the reference voltage RV and sets the output signal OUTB to high logic level when the monitor voltage VM is lower than the reference voltage RV. Further the logic circuit LOGIC outputs OR logic of the output signals OUTA OUTB as an output signal OUTC. Actually however the switching of operating regulators among the regulators RGL takes place when the internal power supply voltage VII exceeds a first voltage RVXC or when the internal power supply voltage VII becomes lower than a second voltage RVXC as illustrated in and . That is the output signal OUTA first detection signal is activated when the internal power supply voltage VII exceeds the first voltage RVXC. The output signal OUTB second detection signal is activated when the internal power supply voltage VII is lower than the second voltage RVXC.

The voltage switch circuit VSW has latch circuits LT generating the regulator control signals RCX respectively according to the output signals OUTA OUTB OUTC. Details of the latch circuits LT are illustrated in and details of the latch circuits LT are illustrated in .

The latch unit LU receives logic level of the regulator control signal RCX during the low logic level period of the output signal OUTC and latches the logic level of the regulator control signal RCX in synchronization with the rising edge of the output signal OUTC. In the latch circuit LT the output signal OUTC is supplied to the latch units LU LU via buffers N. The output signals OUTB OUTA are supplied to the latch unit LU via buffers P. Details of the buffers N P are illustrated in .

The regulator RGL operating according to the regulator control signal RCX has one level higher drivability than drivability of the regulator RGL operating according to the regulator control signal RCX. In the operations of the latch circuits LT the regulator control signal RCX for example relative to the regulator control signal RCX will be hereinafter referred to as the regulator control signal RCX with one level higher drivability. Similarly for example the regulator control signal RCX relative to the regulator control signal RCX will be referred to as the regulator control signal RCX with one level lower drivability.

During a high logic level period of the output signal OUTB the latch unit LU receives logic level latched by the latch unit LU and latches the logic level received by the latch unit LU in synchronization with a falling edge of the output signal OUTB. Specifically the latch unit LU receives logic level in this case ground level of the regulator control signal with one level lower drivability when the monitor voltage VM is lower than the reference voltage RV and latches this logic level when the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV to output the latched logic level as the regulator control signal RCX.

Further during a high logic level period of the output signal OUTA the latch unit LU receives logic level latched by the latch unit LU and latches the logic level received by the latch unit LU in synchronization with a falling edge of the output signal OUTA. In other words the latch unit LU receives logic level of the regulator control signal RCX with one level higher drivability when the monitor voltage VM is higher than the reference voltage RV and when the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV it latches this logic level to output the logic level as the regulator control signal RCX.

The latch circuit LT is the same circuit as the latch circuit LT except in that its input signal is different. A latch unit LU of the latch circuit LT receives logic level of the regulator control signal RCX with one level lower drivability during a low logic level period of the output signal OUTC and latches the logic level of the regulator control signal RCX in synchronization with a rising edge of the output signal OUTC. A latch unit LU of the latch circuit LT receives logic level of the regulator control signal RCX with one level higher drivability during a low logic level period of the output signal OUTC and latches the logic level of the regulator control signal RCX in synchronization with a rising edge of the output signal OUTC. A latch unit LU of the latch circuit LT receives logic level of the regulator control signal RCX with one level lower drivability when the monitor voltage VM is lower than the reference voltage RV and latches this logic level when the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV to output it as the regulator control signal RCX. Further the latch unit LU receives logic level of the regulator control signal RCX with one level higher drivability when the monitor voltage VM is higher than the reference voltage RV and latches this logic level when the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV to output it as the regulator control signal RCX.

In the latch circuit LT when the monitor voltage VM is lower than the reference voltage RV or when the monitor voltage VM is higher than the reference voltage RV the regulator control signal RCX and high logic level VII are transmitted to latch units LU respectively. Then when the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV logic level of the regulator control signal RCX with one level lower drivability is output as the regulator control signal RCX. When the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV the regulator control signal RCX with high logic level is output.

It is possible to easily increase the number of the latch circuits LT without changing the comparators COMP or the logic circuit LOGIC. Therefore it is possible to easily increase the total number of the regulators RGL as well. Increasing the total number of the regulators RGL enables more delicate control of the internal power supply voltage VII.

In the buffer P a source of an nMOS transistor of the initial stage inverter is coupled to the ground line VSS via a resistor and a source of a pMOS transistor of the post stage inverter is coupled to the power supply line VII via a resistor. With this structure the buffer P operates as a delay circuit delaying a rising edge of an input signal IN.

In each of the above described latch circuits LT a switch CMOS transmission gate receiving an output of the buffer N receives the input signal RCX during a low logic level period of an output signal NOUT as shown by the heavy lines in the waveform. A switch CMOS transmission gate receiving an output of the buffer P receives an input signal outputs of the latch units LU during a high logic level period of an output signal POUT. Since ON periods of the switches do not coincide with each other the input signals RCX and so on of the latch circuits LT are prevented from being directly output as the output signals RCX and so on . That is racing of the signals is prevented which prevents malfunctions of the latch circuits LT . Note that the arrows in the waveforms indicate latch timings.

The regulator RGL includes an nMOS transistor NM. The transistor NM has a gate coupled to a constant voltage line VG a source coupled to the internal power supply line VII and a drain coupled to an external power supply line VDD. A ratio of a gate width of the transistor NM is 0.1 times as large as that of the transistor NM. Having no switch the regulator RGL constantly operates to supply a current to the internal power supply line VII. Therefore in a power on period for instance the internal power supply voltage VII can be generated before the voltage switch circuit VSW operates. Since the generation of the monitor voltage VM follows the generation of the internal power supply voltage VII operation states of the comparators COMP and the voltage switch circuit VSW at the power on time are quickly stabilized. Channel lengths of the transistors NM are equal to each other. That is the regulators RGL are different in supply capability for supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII to which the internal power supply voltage VII is supplied.

When the internal power supply voltage VII decreases due to an increase in current consumption of the internal circuits such as the memory core and the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV the output signals OUTB OUTC change to high logic level . The regulator control signal RCX is activated in synchronization with a rising edge of the output signal OUTB . Consequently the regulators RGL turn on . The supply capability for supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII by the internal voltage generation circuit B increases so that the monitor voltage VM internal power supply voltage VII exhibits an increase instead of the decrease .

When the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV the output signals OUTB OUTC change to low logic level . Logic level of the regulator control signal RCX is transmitted to the nodes na nb in synchronization with a falling edge of the output signal OUTC .

When the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV again due to a further increase in current consumption of the internal circuits such as the memory core the output signals OUTB OUTC change to high logic level . The regulator control signal RCX is activated in synchronization with a rising edge of the output signal OUTB . Consequently the regulators RGL turn on . The supply capability for supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII by the internal voltage generation circuit B increases so that the monitor voltage VM internal power supply voltage VII exhibits an increase instead of the decrease .

When the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV the output signals OUTB OUTC change to low logic level . Logic level of the regulator control signal RCX is transmitted to the nodes na nb in synchronization with a falling edge of the output signal OUTC .

In this manner every time the monitor voltage VM changes to become lower than the reference voltage RV and the output signal OUTB is activated the number of the operating regulators RGL increases by one. In more detail every time the output signal OUTB is activated the regulator control signal for example RCX or RCX corresponding to the regulator with the lowest supply capability for example RGL or RGL among the inactive regulator control signals for example RCX or RCX is sequentially activated. In other words the number of the operating regulators RGL is changed not according to the level of the internal power supply voltage VII but according to an increase decrease in current consumption of the internal circuits.

When the internal power supply voltage VII increases due to a decrease in current consumption of the internal circuits such as the memory core and the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV the output signals OUTA OUTC change to high logic level . The regulator control signal RCX is inactivated in synchronization with a rising edge of the output signal OUTA . Consequently the regulator RGL turns off . The supply capability for supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII by the internal voltage generation circuit B lowers so that the monitor voltage VM internal power supply voltage VII exhibits a decrease instead of the increase .

When the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV the output signals OUTA OUTC change to low logic level . Logic level of the regulator control signal RCX is transmitted to the node na in synchronization with a falling edge of the output signal OUTC .

When the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV again due to a further decrease in current consumption of the internal circuits such as the memory core the output signals OUTA OUTC change to high logic level . The regulator control signal RCX is inactivated in synchronization with a rising edge of the output signal OUTA . Consequently the regulator RGL turns off . The supply capability for supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII by the internal voltage generation circuit B lowers so that the monitor voltage VM internal power supply voltage VII exhibits a decrease instead of the increase .

When the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV the output signals OUTA OUTC change to low logic level . Logic level of the regulator control signal RCX is transmitted to the nodes na nb in synchronization with a falling edge of the output signal OUTC .

In this manner every time the monitor voltage VM changes to become higher than the reference voltage RV and the output signal OUTA is activated the number of the operating regulators RGL decreases by one. In more detail every time the output signal OUTA is activated the regulator control signal for example RCX or RCX corresponding to the regulator for example RGL or RGL with the highest current supply capability among the active regulator control signals for example RCX or RCX is inactivated in sequence. In other words the number of the operating regulators RGL is changed not according to the level of the internal power supply voltage VII but according to an increase decrease in current consumption of the internal circuits.

In and the examples where the monitor voltage VM crosses only one of the reference voltages RV is described for easier understanding. Actually however the monitor voltage VM sometimes crosses one reference voltage RV or RV after crossing another reference voltage. In this case the combination of the operations in and takes place.

Level of RVC first voltage and RVC second voltage in are equal to the reference voltages RV 1.0 V RV 0.9 V multiplied by a constant C respectively. For example the constant C is 1.68 which is equal to the expected level 1.6 V of the internal power supply voltage VII divided by the expected level 0.95 of the monitor voltage VM. At this time the first voltage RVC is 1.68 V and the second voltage RVC is 1.52 V. That is in this embodiment the internal power supply voltage VII can be kept within a range from about 1.52V to about 1.68 V.

The foregoing third embodiment can provide the same effects as those of the above described first embodiment. In addition in this embodiment the internal voltage control circuit B increases the number of the operating regulators RGL by one every time the monitor voltage VM following the internal power supply voltage VII becomes lower than the reference voltage RV and decreases the number of the operating regulators RGL by one every time the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV. In more detail the internal voltage control circuit B sequentially starts the operation of the regulator with the lowest supply capability among the operating regulators RGL every time the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV. Further the internal voltage control circuit B sequentially stops the operation of the regulator RGL with the highest supply capability among the operating regulators RGL every time the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV. Consequently it is possible to change the number of the regulators RGL supplying a current to the internal power supply line VII not according to the level of the internal power supply voltage VII but according to a change in actual current consumption of the internal circuits. As a result it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage VII to a minimum and improve an operating margin of the memory MEM.

The above embodiments describe the examples where they are applied to the FCRAM. However it should be noted that the embodiments may be applied to other semiconductor memories such as for example a DRAM a SRAM or a ferroelectric memory or to a logic LSI having an internal voltage generation circuit generating an internal power supply voltage. Here if the first embodiment is applied to a DRAM a refresh operation is executed in response to an external refresh request signal supplied to an external terminal command terminal of the DRAM. In this case the operations of the regulators RGL are the same as those in the refresh operation REF in .

The above third embodiment describes the example where the number of the regulators which are turned on among the regulators RGL is adjusted according to the change in the internal power supply voltage VII. However if for example an operation causing an increase in current consumption is known in advance a predetermined one of the regulators RGL may be forcibly turned on by using a control signal indicating this operation. Here the operations causing an increase in current consumption are for example the restore operation REST the column operation CL and so on of the first embodiment. Concretely for example OR logic negative logic of the regulator control signals RCX illustrated in and the regulator control signals RCX illustrated in is supplied to an input terminal of the internal voltage generation circuit B illustrated in . Consequently it is possible to control ON OFF of the regulators RGL in anticipation of a change in the internal power supply voltage VII. Therefore the frequency with which the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV and the frequency with which the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV can be lowered. That is it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage VII and improve an operating margin of the memory MEM.

Further an external terminal test terminal dedicated for receiving a control signal test signal for directly controlling ON OFF of the regulators RGL may be provided in the memory MEM. The control by this test signal is given priority over the control of the regulators RGL by the regulator control signals RCX . For example the test signal is used to turn on all the regulators RGL in the burn in test of the memory MEM. The test terminal may be provided in the memories MEM of the first and second embodiments.

The foregoing third embodiment describes the example where the number of the operating regulators RGL is increased decreased by one every time the monitor voltage VM becomes lower than the reference voltage RV or every time the monitor voltage VM becomes higher than the reference voltage RV. However the number of the operating regulators RGL may be changed by two or more for instance each time.

The foregoing third embodiment describes the example where the regulator control signals RCX are generated by using the voltage switch circuit VSW formed by the latch circuits LT . However a shift resistor may be provided in place of the voltage switch circuit VSW for instance.

A proposition of the embodiments is to suppress variation which occurs in the internal power supply voltage due to the operations of the internal circuits thereby improving an operating margin of the semiconductor integrated circuit.

In an embodiment an internal circuit has a plurality of circuit blocks operating by receiving an internal power supply voltage. An internal voltage control circuit generates a plurality of regulator control signals according to a combination of operating circuit blocks among the plural circuit blocks. An internal voltage generation circuit has a plurality of regulators which operate in response to activation of the respective regulator control signals to generate the internal power supply voltage by using an external power supply voltage. In this embodiment for example as the number of the operating circuit blocks increases the number of the operating regulators increases. Alternatively when a circuit block requiring high power consumption operates the number of the operating regulators increases. In this manner by generating the regulator control signals according to the actual operation of the internal circuit to control the operations of the regulators it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage to a minimum. As a result an operating margin of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved and a yield of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved.

In another embodiment the internal voltage generation circuit includes a plurality of load circuits. The load circuits couple an internal power supply line supplied with the internal power supply voltage to a ground line in response to activation of a plurality of load control signals respectively. The internal voltage control circuit generates the regulator control signals and the load control signals according to the combination of the operating circuit blocks. The load circuits can prevent the internal power supply voltage from becoming equal to or higher than a tolerable level. In this case the operations of the load circuits are controlled according to the combination of the operating circuit blocks. By thus generating the regulator control signals and the load control signals according to the actual operations of the circuits to control the operations of the regulators and the load circuits it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage to a minimum.

For example the load control signals are generated by using the regulator control signals. This can reduce logic scale of the internal voltage control circuit resulting in reduced chip size of the semiconductor integrated circuit. For example a load circuit with a high resistance among the load circuits has a switch and a transistor which are disposed in series between an internal power supply line and a ground line. A gate of the transistor receives a voltage for tuning on the transistor. Since a high resistance element is formed by using the transistor layout size of the load circuit can be reduced.

In another embodiment the semiconductor integrated circuit includes a memory cell array. The memory cell array has a plurality of memory cells and a plurality of word lines and a plurality of bit lines coupled to the memory cells. A command decoder receives an access request for accessing the memory cell. The internal voltage control circuit generates the regulator control signals according to the access request. For example a controller mounted together with the semiconductor integrated circuit on a system outputs the access request. By generating the regulator control signals according to the access request it is possible to change the operating regulator according to an actual circuit operation. As a result variation in the internal power supply voltage can be reduced to a minimum and an operating margin of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved.

In another embodiment a refresh control circuit periodically generates a refresh request for refreshing the memory cells. The internal voltage control circuit generates the regulator control signals in response to the refresh request. By generating the regulator control signals according to the refresh request generated internally in the semiconductor integrated circuit it is possible to change the operations of the operating regulators according to an actual circuit operation. As a result variation in the internal power supply voltage can be reduced to a minimum and an operating margin of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved.

In another embodiment an operation control circuit generates a plurality of kinds of operation control signals controlling operations of the circuit blocks respectively according to the access request. The internal voltage control circuit generates the regulator control signals in response to at least one of the operation control signals. For example the internal circuit has as the circuit blocks a row decoder a sense amplifier and a column switch. The row decoder selects one of the word lines to supply a high level voltage to the selected word line. The sense amplifier is coupled to the bit lines to amplify a data signal on the bit lines. The column switch couples one of the bit lines to a data bus.

The operation control circuit generates a word activation signal for operating the row decoder a sense amplifier activation signal for operating the sense amplifier and a column activation signal for operating the column switch. The internal voltage control circuit generates the regulator control signals in response to at least one of the word activation signal the sense amplifier activation signal and the column activation signal. With this structure during a read operation or a write operation for instance it is possible to change the number of the operating regulators according to actual operations of the circuit blocks. As a result it is possible to reduce variation in the internal power supply voltage to a minimum and an operating margin of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved.

In another embodiment an internal circuit operates by receiving an internal power supply voltage. An internal voltage control circuit generates a plurality of regulator control signals according to a level of the internal power supply voltage. An internal voltage generation circuit has a plurality of regulators. The regulators operate in response to activation of the regulator control signals respectively to generate the internal power supply voltage by using an external power supply voltage. The internal voltage control circuit has a first and a second comparator and a voltage switch circuit. The first comparator outputs a first detection signal when the internal power supply voltage becomes higher than a first voltage. The second comparator outputs a second detection signal when the internal power supply voltage is lower than a second voltage which is lower than the first voltage.

A voltage switch circuit inactivates one of the regulator control signals to reduce the number of operating regulators among the regulators every time the first detection signal is output and activates one of the regulator control signals to increase the number of operating regulators among the regulators every time the second detection signal is output. For example every time the internal power supply voltage changes to become lower than the second voltage due to an increase in current consumption of the internal circuit the number of the operating regulators increases by one. Further every time the internal power supply voltage becomes higher than the first voltage due to a decrease in current consumption of the internal circuit the number of the operating regulators decreases by one. In this manner the number of the regulators supplying a current to the internal power supply line is changed not according to a level of the internal power supply voltage but according to a change in actual current consumption of the internal circuit. As a result variation in the internal power supply voltage can be reduced to a minimum and an operating margin of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be improved.

For example the internal voltage generation circuit includes a regulator which constantly operates to generate the internal power supply voltage by using the external power supply voltage. Therefore for example in a power on period the internal power supply voltage can be generated before the voltage switch circuit operates. Therefore the operation states of the first and second comparators and the voltage switch circuit are quickly stabilized.

For example a monitor circuit has two resistors disposed in series between an internal power supply line to which the internal power supply voltage is supplied and a ground line and outputs from a coupling node of the resistors a monitor voltage following the internal power supply voltage. A first reference voltage generation circuit generates a first reference voltage corresponding to the first voltage. A second reference voltage generation circuit generates a second reference voltage corresponding to the second voltage. The first comparator receives the monitor voltage and the first reference voltage as the internal power supply voltage and the first voltage to output the first detection signal. The second comparator receives the monitor voltage and the second reference voltage as the internal power supply voltage and the second voltage to output the second detection signal. The monitor voltage can be easily adjusted according to a resistance of the monitor circuit. Therefore for example it is possible to easily set the monitor voltage according to the specifications of the first and second reference voltage generation circuits already designed. Or it is possible to easily set the monitor voltage according to the specifications of the first and second comparators already designed. As a result it is possible to shorten a design period of the internal voltage control circuit. Further since the resistor operates as a load circuit transferring an electric charge of the internal power supply line the load circuit is not necessary.

In another embodiment the regulators are different in supply capability for supplying a current to an internal power supply line to which the internal power supply voltage is supplied. The voltage switch circuit sequentially inactivates a regulator control signal corresponding to the regulator with the highest supply capability among the active regulator control signals every time the first detection signal is output. Further the voltage switch circuit sequentially activates a regulator control signal corresponding to the regulator with the lowest supply capability among the inactive regulator control signals every time the second detection signal is output. With this structure the voltage switch circuit can be formed by a simple logic circuit such as a shift resistor. As a result chip size of the semiconductor integrated circuit can be reduced.

The many features and advantages of the embodiments are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope thereof. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the inventive embodiments to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope thereof.

