---

title: Cleaning device, image forming apparatus, and process cartridge
abstract: A cleaning device removes residual toner particles from a cleaning target, such as a photoconductor, which has a moving surface. The cleaning device includes a cleaning brush, a power circuit, and a cleaning member. The cleaning brush includes a brush rotation shaft, and the power circuit applies a first voltage of a first polarity to the brush rotation shaft. The cleaning member applies a second voltage of the first polarity to the cleaning brush. If the first polarity is negative, the cleaning member electrostatically removes toner particles having a positive polarity from the cleaning target. Then, the cleaning brush is triboelectrically charged to a second polarity, which is opposite to the first polarity, by contacting the cleaning target. Accordingly, the cleaning brush also removes residual toner particles having a negative polarity. Thus, the cleaning device removes both positively and negatively charged toner particles to clean the cleaning target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08041281&OS=08041281&RS=08041281
owner: Ricoh Company Limited
number: 08041281
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080213
---
The present patent application is based on and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 033713 filed on Feb. 14 2007 in the Japan Patent Office the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Exemplary aspects of the present invention generally relate to a cleaning device employed in an image forming apparatus such as a copying machine a facsimile machine and a printer a process cartridge and an image forming apparatus that includes the cleaning device and the process cartridge.

A related art image forming apparatus such as a copying machine a facsimile machine a printer or a multifunction printer having two or more of copying printing scanning and facsimile functions forms a toner image on a recording medium e.g. a sheet according to image data using an electrophotographic method. In such a method for example a charger charges a surface of an image bearing member e.g. a photoconductor . An optical device emits a light beam onto the charged surface of the photoconductor to form an electrostatic latent image on the photoconductor according to the image data. The electrostatic latent image is developed with a developer e.g. a toner to form a toner image on the photoconductor. A transfer device transfers the toner image formed on the photoconductor onto a sheet. A fixing device applies heat and pressure to the sheet bearing the toner image to fix the toner image onto the sheet. The sheet bearing the fixed toner image is then discharged from the image forming apparatus.

The related art image forming apparatus further includes a cleaning device for removing toner particles remaining on a surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed. The cleaning device includes a cleaning blade formed of rubber which contacts the photoconductor to remove the toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor. When the cleaning blade does not accurately contact the photoconductor the toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor pass through the cleaning blade and remain thereon degrading cleaning performance. To solve such a problem the cleaning blade is pressed against the photoconductor with a high linear pressure. However the high linear pressure causes curling up of the cleaning blade. As a result a part of the toner particles are not removed by the cleaning blade and remain on the surface of the photoconductor in a linear or band like shape. Thus higher cleaning performance may not be stably obtained. Moreover over an extended period of time the surface of the photoconductor is further worn away shortening a product life of the photoconductor.

To meet demand for higher quality images toner particles having a smaller particle diameter and a spherical shape have been developed in recent years. Furthermore to meet demand for reduction in manufacturing costs of toner and improvement in transfer rate image forming apparatuses using toner having particles of a spherical shape manufactured using a polymerization method have become widely commercialized over those using pulverized toner having particles of an irregular shape. At the same time however it is known that the cleaning blade cannot reliably remove the toner particles having a smaller particle diameter and a spherical shape from the surface of the photoconductor as compared to pulverized toner particles.

One example of a cleaning device uses an electrostatic brush cleaning method to reliably remove the toner particles having a smaller particle diameter and a spherical shape from the surface of the photoconductor and to prevent the surface of the photoconductor from being abraded by mechanical rubbing by the cleaning blade. In the electrostatic brush cleaning method a cleaning brush is provided in contact with the surface of the photoconductor and furthermore a collecting roller serving as a cleaning member is provided in contact with the cleaning brush to remove the toner particles from the cleaning brush. A voltage is applied to the cleaning brush or to both of the cleaning brush and the collecting roller. The toner particles charged to a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush are electrostatically adhered to a brush string of the cleaning brush so that the toner particles are removed from the surface of the photoconductor. Therefore the electrostatic brush cleaning method can provide reliable and improved cleaning performance for the toner particles having a smaller particle diameter and a spherical shape.

Generally a voltage with a polarity opposite to that of toner particles after development has been performed is applied to a transfer member so as to transfer the toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor onto a sheet. Therefore a charge with a polarity opposite to that of the charge injected into the toner particles during development is injected into the toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor during transfer. Consequently the more weakly charged toner particles are charged to the polarity opposite to that of the toner particles after development has been performed due to the charge injection during transfer described above. Therefore a part of the toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed have a polarity identical to that of the toner particles after development has been performed and the other part of the toner particles have a polarity opposite to that of the toner particles after development has been performed. In other words both toner particles charged to the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush and toner particles charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush remain on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed. Consequently the toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor that are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush are not electrostatically adhered to the cleaning brush and pass through the cleaning brush resulting in poor cleaning performance.

In view of the foregoing exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide a cleaning device including a cleaning brush to reliably clean toner particles charged to polarities opposite to and identical to a polarity of a voltage applied to the cleaning brush. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention further provide a process cartridge and an image forming apparatus that includes the cleaning device and the process cartridge.

In one exemplary embodiment a cleaning device includes a cleaning brush to which a voltage is applied to remove residual toner particles from a cleaning target having a moving surface. The cleaning brush is configured to be triboelectrically charged to a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush by contacting the cleaning target.

Another exemplary embodiment provides an image forming apparatus including at least one image bearing member to bear an electrostatic latent image a charging device to charge a surface of the image bearing member an irradiating device to irradiate the charged surface of the image bearing member to form an electrostatic latent image thereon at least one developing device to develop the electrostatic latent image with a toner to form a toner image a transfer device to transfer the toner image onto a transfer member or a recording medium and a cleaning device including a cleaning brush to which a voltage is applied to remove residual toner particles from a cleaning target having a moving surface. The cleaning brush is configured to be triboelectrically charged to a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush by contacting the cleaning target and the cleaning target is the image bearing member.

Yet another exemplary embodiment provides a process cartridge detachably attachable to an image forming apparatus including an image bearing member and a cleaning device including a cleaning brush to which a voltage is applied to remove residual toner particles from a cleaning target having a moving surface. The cleaning brush is configured to be triboelectrically charged to a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush by contacting the cleaning target and the cleaning target is the image bearing member.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be more fully apparent from the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments the accompanying drawings and the associated claims.

It will be understood that if an element or layer is referred to as being on against connected to or coupled to another element or layer then it can be directly on against connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present.

In contrast if an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer then there are no intervening elements or layers present. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures.

It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus term such as below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

Although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections it should be understood that these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms.

These terms are used only to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another element component region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are now described below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In a later described comparative example exemplary embodiment and exemplary variation for the sake of simplicity the same reference numerals will be given to identical constituent elements such as parts and materials having the same functions and redundant descriptions thereof omitted unless otherwise stated.

Typically but not necessarily paper is the medium from which is made a sheet on which an image is to be formed. It should be noted however that other printable media are available in sheets and accordingly their use here is included. Thus solely for simplicity although this Detailed Description section refers to paper sheets thereof paper feeder etc. it should be understood that the sheets etc. are not limited only to paper but includes other printable media as well.

A first exemplary embodiment of the present invention employed in an electrophotographic printer serving as an image forming apparatus hereinafter simply referred to as a printer is described in detail below.

Residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor after the toner image has been transferred onto the sheet are removed by a cleaning device . Thereafter a neutralizing lamp neutralizes an electric charge remaining on the surface of the photoconductor passing through the cleaning device .

The charger illustrated in includes a charging roller including a conductive substrate and a resistive layer provided on the conductive substrate. The charging roller is pressed against the surface of the photoconductor by a pressing unit not shown with a predetermined pressure of for example 500 gf so that the charging roller contacts the surface of the photoconductor so as to trail the photoconductor . However when a surface of the charging roller has a sufficiently smaller static friction coefficient the charging roller may not trail the photoconductor . Therefore to obtain stable contact pressure between the charging roller and the surface of the photoconductor a driving device to rotatively drive the charging roller may be provided. A longitudinal length namely an axial length of the charger including the charging roller is set longer than a width in a lateral direction of A4 size paper about 300 mm which is the maximum image width according to the first exemplary embodiment.

A power source not shown is connected to the conductive substrate of the charging roller to apply a voltage to the charging roller such that a potential difference between the surface of the photoconductor and the charging roller becomes greater than a voltage at the beginning of electric discharge. In the first exemplary embodiment the voltage is applied to the charging roller so that the surface of the photoconductor is charged to an electric potential of 700V. Therefore the electric discharge occurs in the vicinity of a portion where the charging roller contacts the photoconductor so that the surface of the photoconductor is evenly charged. For example a DC voltage overlapped with an AC voltage with a frequency of 1.8 kHZ a peak voltage of 2 kV and an offset voltage of 740V is applied to the charging roller in the first exemplary embodiment. However because application of the DC voltage can more effectively suppress generation of nitrogen oxides as compared to application of the DC voltage overlapped with the AC voltage it is preferable to apply the DC voltage to the charging roller in order to suppress generation of ozone and nitrogen oxides although the application of the DC voltage overlapped with the AC voltage can more evenly charge the surface of the photoconductor as compared to the application of the DC voltage. In place of the charging roller a charging blade a charging brush or the like may also be used.

As described above in the first exemplary embodiment the charging roller is provided in contact with the surface of the photoconductor . Alternatively for example the charging roller may be provided apart from the surface of the photoconductor . In a case of using such a contactless type charging roller a predetermined voltage is applied to the contactless type charging roller so as to generate electric discharge between the contactless type charging roller and the photoconductor and consequently the surface of the photoconductor is charged to a predetermined polarity. Thus the charging roller provided in contact with or apart from the surface of the photoconductor may be preferably employed in the first exemplary embodiment.

The transfer device includes a transfer belt capable of contacting and separating from the surface of the photoconductor a transfer roller a driving roller and so forth. After the developing device has been developed the electrostatic latent image formed on the surface of the photoconductor with a toner to form a toner image the transfer device transfers the toner image onto a sheet. At this time a transfer voltage with a polarity opposite to that of the toner of the toner image for example a positive transfer voltage controlled by a constant current of 30 A is applied to the transfer roller included in the transfer device . Accordingly a part of residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed may have a positive polarity which is opposite to that of the toner during development due to the application of the positive transfer voltage. As a result a mixture of the positively charged residual toner particles and the negatively charged residual toner particles remains on the surface of the photoconductor .

Although the transfer device illustrated in includes the transfer belt the transfer roller the driving roller and so forth any transfer device with an appropriate configuration may also be used in the first exemplary embodiment.

The cleaning brush is rotated by a driving unit not shown in a direction same as the rotation direction of the photoconductor . The cleaning brush includes a brush string in which a conductive material such as carbon and an ionic conductive material is incorporated into an insulating string including a material such as nylon polyester and acrylic so as to provide conductive property to the brush string . A foundation cloth in which the brush strings are implanted is wound on a metal core such as a stainless steel to form the cleaning brush . A third power circuit is connected to a brush rotation shaft of the cleaning brush to apply a voltage with a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade to the cleaning brush .

The cleaning device further includes a collecting roller in contact with the cleaning brush and a second power circuit for applying a voltage to the collecting roller . The second power circuit includes a first power source for applying a voltage to the collecting roller . The voltage applied to the collecting roller from the first power source is higher than the voltage applied to the cleaning brush and has a polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush . The second power circuit further includes a second power source for applying a voltage with a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush to the collecting roller and a switching unit for switching the power source to apply the voltage to the collecting roller between the first power source and the second power source . In other words the switching unit switches the polarity of the voltage applied to the collecting roller . The cleaning device further includes a scraper in contact with the collecting roller a conveyance coil not shown and so forth.

After the residual toner particles has been passed thorough the conductive blade the cleaning brush electrostatically collects the residual toner particles with the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade . The residual toner particles collected by the cleaning brush are conveyed to a portion facing the collecting roller along with the rotation of the cleaning brush and are electrostatically collected by the collecting roller . The residual toner particles collected by the collecting roller are scraped off by the scraper and are conveyed to a waste toner container not shown by the conveyance coil not shown.

A description is now given of a charge amount of the residual toner particles which remain on the surface of the photoconductor and are conveyed to the portion facing the cleaning device .

The residual toner particles which remain on the surface of the photoconductor and pass through a portion facing the transfer roller are conveyed to a portion facing the conductive blade along with the rotation of the photoconductor . Most of the residual toner particles conveyed to the portion facing the conductive blade are mechanically scrapped off by the conductive blade . However referring to the conductive blade in contact with the surface of the photoconductor is deformed in the rotation direction of the photoconductor causing a stick slip motion. In the stick slip motion a rubber included in the conductive blade is elastically stretched in the rotation direction of the photoconductor at a portion where the conductive blade contacts the surface of the photoconductor and consequently the conductive blade is deformed as illustrated in a state H with a solid line. When being stretched to the limit the conductive blade returns to an original state as illustrated in a state C with a dotted line. Therefore the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor pass through the conductive blade when the state of the conductive blade changes from the state H to the state C.

Referring back to the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer have a broader charge distribution including both the positively and negatively charged toner particles. Accordingly the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade are not entirely charged to the single polarity namely the regular polarity of the toner particles. As a result either one of the residual toner particles which are not charged to the regular polarity and the residual toner particles which are charged to the regular polarity cannot be collected by the cleaning brush causing cleaning residual toner particles which are the residual toner particles that remain on the photoconductor after cleaning.

To solve such a problem the voltage is applied to the conductive blade as described above so as to inject a charge into the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade . Thus the residual toner particles are controlled to have the single polarity by the conductive blade .

In a case in which the voltage applied to the conductive blade is sufficiently lower than the voltage at the beginning of the electric discharge it is considered that the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade . That is the residual toner particles are sandwiched between the conductive blade and the photoconductor when passing therebetween and are charged to the polarity identical to that of the applied voltage in a similar way as for example a condenser is charged. In other words charge injection into the residual toner particles occurs when the residual toner particles pass between the conductive blade and the photoconductor . Thus the residual toner particles after passing thorough the conductive blade are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade due to the charge injection.

In a case in which the voltage applied to minute gaps between the conductive blade and the residual toner particles or the conductive blade and the surface of the photoconductor is close to or higher than the voltage at the beginning of the electric discharge it is considered that the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade . That is the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade by electric discharge from the minute gaps at an entry and an exit of a wedge portion formed between the photoconductor and the conductive blade .

However even when the voltage is applied to the conductive blade to control the polarity of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade the residual toner particles may not be entirely controlled to have the single polarity. One of possible reason for this is that the polarity of toner particles is not easily controlled depending on toner types. The other possible reason is that the charge distributions of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade vary depending on usage conditions a number of adhered toner particles per unit area an amount of transfer current an area ratio of an image toner types and so forth. Accordingly the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade may not be entirely controlled to have the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade . In such a case a part of the residual toner particles may not be electrostatically collected by the cleaning brush causing cleaning residual toner particles.

For example referring to the charge distributions of toner particles vary depending on usage conditions. The charge distributions of the toner particles illustrated in are measured by using E SPART analyzer manufactured by Hosokawa Micron Corporation. A horizontal axis of each of the graphs in represents a Q d value with a unit of fC 10 m obtained by dividing a charge amount Q per toner particle by a diameter d of the toner particle and a vertical axis represents a percentage out of a total amount of collected toner particles. Here only 500 toner particles are collected for the measurement due to a smaller amount of the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor .

Even in a case in which the charge distributions of the toner particles vary depending on the usage conditions the transfer conditions an area ratio of an image and so forth 90 percent of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade by appropriately applying the voltage to the conductive blade . However for example only 80 percent of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade may be charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade depending on toner types even if a voltage of 1 kV is applied to the conductive blade . So far it is not known that which factor in the toner types causes improper control of the polarity of the residual toner particles. However the remaining 20 percent of the residual toner particles with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade can be collected by the cleaning brush after passing through the conductive blade by using the cleaning device to be described in detail below. Therefore a number of the residual toner particles which are not collected by the cleaning brush and pass through the cleaning brush can be suppressed.

The cleaning device according to the first exemplary embodiment includes the cleaning brush including the brush string . The brush string are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade by contacting the surface of the photoconductor . In other words the brush string includes a material which is charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade by friction with a material included in the surface of the photoconductor .

The voltage with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade is applied to the cleaning brush so that the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade 90 percent or more of which have the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade are electrostatically collected by the cleaning blade .

Less than 10 percent of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade namely the toner particles with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade electrostatically adhere to the cleaning brush when the brush string contacts the surface of the photoconductor so as to be charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade . More specifically the residual toner particles with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade adhere to the cleaning brush by an electrostatic attraction between an electric potential of an insulating layer of the cleaning brush and a charge amount of the residual toner particles.

The residual toner particles with the polarity not controlled by the conductive blade adhere to the brush string charged by contacting the photoconductor . Because such residual toner particles have a larger amount of charge with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade namely the positive polarity before passing through the conductive blade the polarity of the residual toner particles is not reversed even when the negative charge is injected into the residual toner particles from the conductive blade . However the amount of charge of such positively charged residual toner particles decreases after passing through the conductive blade due to the negative charge injection from the conductive blade resulting in the residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge. Therefore it is thought that electrostatic attraction between the photoconductor and the toner particles with a smaller amount of charge is weaker so that the residual toner particles easily adhere to the brush string charged by contacting the photoconductor . The residual toner particles still have a smaller amount of charge after being collected by the brush string so that intermolecular force between the residual toner particles and the brush strings and a force generated between each of the brush string to collect the residual toner particles are stronger than an electric field between the photoconductor and the cleaning brush . Therefore the residual toner particles adhering to the brush string rarely adhere to the surface of the photoconductor again and remain adhering to the brush string .

A description is now given of an experiment performed by the present inventors. In the experiment the cleaning brush is electrically floated and a voltage of 300V is applied to the collecting roller . The cleaning brush includes a material which is located in the negative side in the triboelectric series with the material included in the surface of the photoconductor for example the brush string is formed of polyester and has a bent shape. The conductive blade is removed from the cleaning device and in order to obtain positively charged toner particles which are not expected to be electrostatically collected by the cleaning brush three types of transfer currents It of 20 A 38 A and 42 A are respectively applied. Accordingly a mixture of the positively and negatively charged residual toner particles of a solid image are conveyed to the cleaning brush . is a graph illustrating charge distributions of the residual toner particles before cleaning is performed by the cleaning brush and is a graph illustrating charge distributions of the residual toner particles collected by the cleaning brush . An electrically floated metal plate is contacted with the leading edge of the cleaning brush during cleaning to measure an electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush by using a surface electrometer. As a result the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush is 220V which is lower than the voltage of 300V applied to the collecting roller .

Referring to it is found out that the positively charged residual toner particles are collected by the cleaning brush in spite of the fact that the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush has a positive electric potential of 220V. For this reason it is thought that the positively charged residual toner particles adhere to the cleaning brush because the brush string is charged to the negative polarity by contacting the photoconductor .

A foundation cloth having a conductive polyester brush string thereon is wound on a metal core to form the cleaning brush . The cleaning brush is electrically floated and photoconductors to be described in detail later are placed in the dark. Conductive substrates of each of the photoconductors are grounded when electric potentials of each of surfaces of the photoconductors are 0V. When an electric potential of the core metal of the cleaning brush is measured by a surface electrometer while rotating the cleaning brush and the photoconductors the core metal of the cleaning brush has an electric potential of 30V. This means the conductive polyester brush string is charged to 30V. On the other hand when the experiment is performed by using the cleaning brush including a nylon brush string including the above described conductive material in a similar way as described above the core metal of the cleaning brush has an electric potential of 70V. This means the conductive nylon brush string is charged to 70V.

In order to collect the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade 90 percent of which are negatively charged and 10 percent of which are positively charged a voltage of 200V is applied to the core metal of the cleaning brush including the conductive polyester brush string and a voltage of 300V is applied to a high resistance collecting roller for rotatively contacting the conductive brush to collect the residual toner particles from the cleaning brush . As a result the residual toner particles are reliably collected by the high resistance collecting roller . The high resistance collecting roller includes a stainless steel roller of which surface is covered with a PVDF tube with a thickness of 100 m and is further coated with an insulating coating layer with a thickness of 3 m. The use of the high resistance collecting roller can stabilize a potential difference between the cleaning brush and the high resistance collecting roller so that the residual toner particles can be reliably collected from the cleaning brush by the high resistance collecting roller to be described in detail later.

Meanwhile in order to collect the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade 90 percent of which are negatively charged and 10 percent of which are positively charged a voltage is applied to the metal core of the cleaning brush including the conductive nylon brush string under the condition same as that of the above described verification experiment. However the residual toner particles cannot be reliably collected from the cleaning brush by the high resistance collecting roller

Next in order to collect the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade 90 percent of which are negatively charged and 10 percent of which are positively charged a voltage of 200V is applied to the metal core of the cleaning brush including the conductive nylon brush string and a voltage of 300V is applied to the high resistance collecting roller . As a result the residual toner particles can be reliably collected from the cleaning brush by the high resistance collecting roller

Meanwhile in order to collect the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade 90 percent of which are negatively charged and 10 percent of which are positively charged a voltage is applied to a metal core of the cleaning brush including the conductive polyester brush string under the condition same as that of the above described verification experiment. However the residual toner particles cannot be reliably collected from the cleaning brush by the high resistance collecting roller

From the results of the verification experiments described above it is found out that the use of the brush string which are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade by contacting the photoconductor can provide preferred cleaning performance.

When the cleaning brush includes a conductive material dispersed in a surface part of the brush string as illustrated in the conductive material easily contacts the residual toner particles so that a larger amount of current flows into the residual toner particles between the photoconductor and the cleaning brush . As a result the residual toner particles tend to be strongly charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush .

The charge distribution of the residual toner particles has an influence on the polarity of the residual toner particles when being controlled by the conductive blade . In a case in which the charge distribution of the residual toner particles is extremely shifted toward the positive polarity side a mixture of the negatively charged residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge and the positively charged residual toner particles remains on the surface of the photoconductor even after the polarity of the residual toner particles has been controlled by the conductive blade . Thereafter a charge may be injected into the residual toner particles from the cleaning brush in an area E illustrated in where the cleaning brush contacts the photoconductor and consequently the residual toner particles tend to be strongly charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush .

Such a charge injection also occurs in an area F illustrated in where the cleaning brush contacts the collecting roller . Therefore the negatively charged residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge and the positively charged residual toner particles are strongly charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the collecting roller in the area F. As a result these residual toner particles are not removed from the cleaning brush to the collecting roller and remain on the cleaning brush . Thereafter the residual toner particles remaining on the cleaning brush contact the surface of the photoconductor along with the rotation of the cleaning brush and adhere to the surface of the photoconductor again resulting in the cleaning residual toner particles.

Referring to A and B the cleaning string has a core in sheath type structure including the conductive material and the insulating material provided on a surface of the conductive material . Because the brush string having the core in sheath type structure includes the insulating material in an outermost surface thereof the conductive material does not contact a toner particle T with a portion other than a cutting surface of the brush string . Therefore the charge injection into the toner particle T from the cleaning brush may be suppressed.

Insulating materials such as nylon polyester and acrylic are widely used as the insulating material included in the brush string . All of the above described insulating materials can suppress the charge injection into the toner particles T from the cleaning brush . Specific examples of the brush string having a core in sheath type structure have been disclosed in published unexamined Japanese patent application Nos. hereinafter referred to as JP A 10 310974 10 131035 and 01 292116 and published examined Japanese patent application Nos. hereinafter referred to as JP B 07 033637 07 033606 and 03 064604.

For example the brush string may have conductive property by coating the surface thereof with a conductive material or dispersing or providing a conductive material into the brush string . However it is desirable that the surface of the brush string has insulation property. When the surface of the brush string is conductive it is difficult to make the brush string be triboelectrically charged. The reason is thought that although still unknown the brush string is not easily triboelectrically charged or charges are lost after the brush string has been triboelectrically charged. Thus the residual toner particles of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade are not reliably removed from the surface of the photoconductor . Experiments have been performed by using each of the brush string having a resistivity of 10 m and 10 m and no difference has been observed in cleaning performance between each of the above described brush string . In the experiments each of the components is set as follows. The brush string has a resistivity of 10 m and the cleaning brush has a density of 100 000 strings per square inch. The collecting roller includes a metal roller and the scraper includes a polyurethane rubber and contacts the collecting roller at an angle of 20 degrees with an engagement of 1 mm. Furthermore the experiments have been performed under two different conditions in which a voltage is applied to a rotation shaft of the collecting roller and no voltage is applied to the brush rotation shaft

Referring back to the brush string is bent backward relative to the rotation direction of the cleaning brush indicated by an arrow M.

On the other hand when the brush string has a bent shape the conductive material included in the brush string hardly contacts the toner particle T as illustrated in . Therefore the charge injection from the cleaning brush to the residual toner particles can be suppressed in the areas E and F.

The areas E and F where the charge injection occurs are described in detail below with reference back to in which the cleaning brush includes the brush string having a straight shape.

The charge injection into the residual toner particles occurs in the areas E and F in . The voltage applied from the second power circuit to the collecting roller is further applied to the cleaning brush through the collecting roller so that the residual toner particles are removed from the surface of the photoconductor to the cleaning brush .

The charge is injected into the residual toner particles in the area E at the instant when the conductive material included in the brush string contacts the residual toner particles. At this time because weakly charged residual toner particles are strongly charged to the polarity identical to that of the applied voltage the strongly charged residual toner particles are further electrostatically attracted to the surface of the photoconductor . Consequently the strongly charged residual toner particles are not removed from the surface of the photoconductor by the cleaning brush and remain on the surface of the photoconductor resulting in the cleaning residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor . On the other hand although the charge is injected into the residual toner particles strongly charged to the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush the polarity of such residual toner particles is not reversed due to the larger amount of charge so that the residual toner particles are removed from the surface of the photoconductor to the cleaning brush .

The residual toner particles with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the cleaning brush which are removed from the surface of the photoconductor to the cleaning brush are further removed from the cleaning brush to the collecting roller . At this time the charge injection occurs in the area F between the cleaning brush and the collecting roller in the same manner as described above. That is the residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge is strongly charged to the polarity of the voltage applied to the collecting roller and consequently the toner particles are not removed from the cleaning brush to the collecting roller and remain on the cleaning brush . Thereafter the toner particles remaining on the cleaning brush contact the surface of the photoconductor along with the rotation of the cleaning brush and adhere to the surface of the photoconductor again due to an electric field between the photoconductor and the cleaning brush resulting in the cleaning residual toner particles.

However as illustrated in the conductive material included in the brush string hardly contacts the toner particle T with the use of the cleaning brush including the brush string having the core in sheath type structure and a bent shape. Accordingly occurrence of the charge injection into the residual toner particles in the areas E and F can be suppressed. As a result the negatively charged residual toner particles and the residual toner particles weakly charged to the positive polarity adhering to the cleaning brush are prevented from being strongly charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the collecting roller .

A configuration in which the cleaning brush includes the brush string having a straight shape is hereinafter referred to as a configuration A and a configuration in which the cleaning brush includes the brush string having a bent shape is hereinafter referred to as a configuration B .

Furthermore in a configuration hereinafter referred to as a configuration C the collecting roller and the scraper are removed from the configuration B and a voltage is applied to the brush rotation shaft of the cleaning brush . With such a configuration it is observed that the charge injection mainly occurs between the cleaning brush and the collecting roller . Similarly to the case with the configurations A and B the rotation of the photoconductor is stopped when the cleaning brush is rotated two revolutions.

As illustrated in the value of the cleaning residual toner particle ID decreases with the configuration B as compared to the configuration A. The value of the cleaning residual toner particle ID further decreases with the configuration C as compared to the configuration B. The cleaning residual toner particle ID when the applied voltage is increased represents the toner particles strongly charged to the polarity of the applied voltage namely the toner particles into which a positive charge is injected. On the other hand the cleaning residual toner particle ID when the applied voltage is decreased represents the toner particles which are not removed by the cleaning brush . The cleaning residual toner particle ID when a voltage of 500V or more is applied to the collecting roller or the cleaning brush represents positively charged toner particles. On the other hand the cleaning residual toner particle ID when a voltage of 200V or less or 100V or less in the configuration A is applied to the collecting roller or the cleaning brush represents negatively charged toner particles. Therefore from the graph shown in it is confirmed that the charge injection occurs between the photoconductor and the cleaning brush and the cleaning brush and the collecting roller respectively. In addition the result of the cleaning performance with the configuration C proves that the charge injection hardly occurs with the use of the cleaning brush including the brush string having the core in sheath type structure and a bent shape.

A specific example of the configuration applicable to the cleaning brush and the collecting roller according to the first exemplary embodiment is described in detail below. The collecting roller includes a stainless steel and has a diameter of 10 mm. The cleaning brush includes a conductive polyester and contacts the surface of the photoconductor with an engagement of 1 mm. The brush string has a width of 5 mm and a length of 5 mm and has a resistivity of 10 m. The cleaning brush has a density of 100 000 strings per square inch.

A specific example of the configuration applicable to the scraper according to the first exemplary embodiment is described in detail below. The scraper includes a polyurethane rubber and contacts the collecting roller at an angle of 20 degrees with an engagement of 1 mm.

A bending angle of the brush string differs depending on the diameters of each of the photoconductor and the collecting roller . Thus the bending angle of the brush string may be appropriately set such that the conductive material of the brush string does not contact each of the photoconductor and the collecting roller .

In order to obtain the cleaning brush including the brush string having a bent shape the cleaning brush in which a straight brush string is radially provided to the brush rotation shaft is put in a jig having the same inner diameter as that of the cleaning brush to be rotated therein while being heated by the jig. As a result the brush string is permanently deformed to a bent shape. Therefore a length of the brush string having a bent shape from the leading edge thereof to the brush rotation shaft is required to be longer than that having a straight shape. Not only the brush string having a bent shape but also the brush string having a straight shape in which a length from the leading edge thereof to the brush rotation shaft is sufficiently longer than a distance from the brush rotation shaft to the surface of the photoconductor and only a side surface thereof contacts the photoconductor can suppress the contact between the leading edge of the brush string and the residual toner particles when the cleaning brush is rotated so as to face in the rotation direction of the photoconductor . As a result the charge injection from the cleaning brush into the residual toner particles are suppressed. Furthermore both of the positively and negatively charged residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade are preferably attracted to the brush string including a conductive polyester.

A specific example of the configuration applicable to the conductive blade according to the first exemplary embodiment is described in detail below. The conductive blade contacts the surface of the photoconductor so as to face in the rotation direction of the photoconductor at a contact angle of 20 with a contact pressure of from 20 g cm. The conductive blade has but is not limited to a flat shape with a thickness of 2 mm a free length of 7 mm a JIS A hardness of from 60 to 80 degrees and an impact resilience of 30 and is bonded to a blade holder including a steel plate. Because the conductive blade does not remove all residual toner particles the amount of the residual toner particles passing through the contact portion between the conductive blade and the photoconductor does not matter. Although the above described conductive blade is used for removing pulverized toner particles the conductive blade having the same configuration as described above can also be used for removing toner particles having a spherical shape. Furthermore the polarity of the voltage applied to each of the conductive blade the cleaning brush and the collecting roller may be opposite to that described above in the first exemplary embodiment.

In a case in which the toner particles having a spherical shape are used the amount of the residual toner particles removed from the surface of the photoconductor by the conductive blade becomes smaller as compared to a case in which pulverized toner particles are used. However because the residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor are charged to the single polarity by the conductive blade as described above the cleaning brush effectively removes the residual toner particles from the surface of the photoconductor . Thus in a similar way as the case in which the pulverized toner particles are used the charge injection from the cleaning brush into the residual toner particles is suppressed and consequently the residual toner particles are reliably removed from the surface of the photoconductor by the cleaning brush .

The polarity of the residual toner particles electrostatically attracted to the conductive blade gradually changes to the polarity of the applied voltage over time due to the charge injection or the electric discharge. As a result the residual toner particles pass through the conductive blade . However because the amount of the residual toner particles adhering to the conductive blade is greater than that of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade the residual toner particles remain on the portion where the conductive blade and the surface of the photoconductor contact each other. Therefore the amount of the charge injection or the electric discharge decreases and the polarity of a larger amount of the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade is not turned into the polarity of the applied voltage. As a result the residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade of which polarity is opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade may not be completely removed by the cleaning brush provided on a downstream side from the conductive blade relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor . Therefore the portion where the conductive blade and the photoconductor contact each other is required to be cleaned on regular basis.

Cleaning of the portion where the conductive blade and the surface of the photoconductor contact each other is performed while image formation is not performed. To clean such portion a voltage with the polarity opposite to that of the applied voltage during image formation is applied to the conductive blade and the photoconductor is rotated in a direction opposite to the rotation direction thereof during image formation. When the photoconductor is rotated in the opposite direction as described above a surface of the conductive blade provided on an upstream side relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor namely a surface of the conductive blade for discharging electricity to reverse the polarity of the residual toner particles contacts the surface of the photoconductor . Consequently the residual toner particles adhering to the above described surface of the conductive blade are easily moved to the surface of the photoconductor . In addition because most of the residual toner particles electrostatically adhering to the conductive blade have the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade the residual toner particles are easily moved to the surface of the photoconductor when the voltage with the polarity identical to that of the residual toner particles is applied to the conductive blade . Thus the residual toner particles which have the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade and electrostatically adhere to the conductive blade during image formation are easily moved to the surface of the photoconductor and are further conveyed to an upstream side from the conductive blade relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor . Thereafter the conductive blade mechanically removes the residual toner particles moved to the surface of the photoconductor as described above from the surface of the photoconductor or injects the charge into the residual toner particles during next image formation. Cleaning of the portion where the conductive blade and the photoconductor contact each other may be performed any time when image formation is not performed for example after images have been formed on a predetermined number of sheets or a single image formation has been performed and when the image forming apparatus is turned on.

It is desirable that the photoconductor is rotated in a direction opposite to the rotation direction thereof for a distance identical to that between the conductive blade and the cleaning brush . Because the amount of charge of the residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor between the conductive blade and the cleaning brush gradually decreases or may be completely lost in an extreme case when the rotation of the photoconductor is stopped for a long time the cleaning brush provided on a downstream side from the conductive blade relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor cannot collect the residual toner particles. To prevent such a problem the residual toner particles are moved to an upstream side from the portion where the conductive blade and the photoconductor contact each other relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor and are charged by the conductive blade again. Therefore the cleaning brush provided on a downstream side from the conductive blade relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor removes the residual toner particles from the surface of the photoconductor .

A description is now given of collection of the residual toner particles on the surface of the collecting roller .

Because the scraper formed of an insulating material mechanically removes the residual toner particles from the collecting roller the scraper hardly removes the residual toner particles having a spherical shape from the collecting roller .

The collecting roller removes the residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush to the collecting roller by using a potential difference between the cleaning brush and the collecting roller . Thus unlike the photoconductor the collecting roller has many alternatives for materials included therein as long as the surface thereof has conductivity. Accordingly the surface of the collecting roller may be coated with a material having a lower friction coefficient or a metal roller covered with a conductive tube with a lower friction coefficient may be used as the collecting roller to improve abrasive resistance so that a contact pressure of the scraper against the collecting roller can be increased. As a result the scraper formed of an insulating material can easily remove the residual toner particles having a spherical shape from the surface of the collecting roller . For example the collecting roller which is coated with a fluorine resin and a PVDF or is covered with a PFA tube may be used for improving abrasive resistance.

As illustrated in a conductive brush may be used as the polarity control member for injecting a charge into the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor to control the polarity of the residual toner particles. The conductive brush has a resistivity of from 10to 10 cm and a density of 100 000 strings per square inch. A length of a brush string included in the conductive brush is 5 mm including foundation cloth and the conductive brush contacts the photoconductor with an engagement of 1 mm.

In the configuration illustrated in a voltage is applied to a conductive collecting roller in contact with the conductive brush and the voltage is further applied to the conductive brush through the conductive collecting roller . Thus the polarity of the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor is controlled by the conductive brush to which the voltage is applied from the conductive collecting roller . The conductive collecting roller collects the residual toner particles adhering to the conductive brush by using a potential difference between a rotation shaft of the conductive brush and the conductive collecting roller . Therefore the conductive brush can be reliably cleaned so that the polarity of the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor can be stably controlled for a long time. Furthermore in a case in which the residual toner particles adhering to the conductive brush are naturally removed from the conductive brush by virtue of a well thought out arrangement of the conductive brush or the electrostatic collection of the residual toner particles from the conductive brush is not necessary by virtue of vibration of a flicker bar a belt like brush may be provided as the polarity control member as illustrated in providing a simplified configuration.

A description is now given of reverse of the polarity of the residual toner particles when passing through the conductive brush with reference back to . The polarity of the residual toner particles which is opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive brush is reversed to the polarity identical to the polarity of the voltage applied to the conductive brush when the residual toner particles pass through the conductive brush . In a case in which the voltage applied to the conductive brush is sufficiently lower than the voltage at the beginning of electric discharge it is considered that the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive brush in a similar way as for example a condenser is charged when the residual toner particles pass between the conductive brush and the photoconductor . That is a charge is injected into the residual toner particles from the conductive brush . Thereafter the residual toner particles pass over the conductive brush . In a case in which the voltage applied to minute gaps between the conductive brush and the residual toner particles or the conductive brush and the photoconductor is close to or greater than the voltage at the beginning of the electric discharge the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive brush due to an electric discharge from minute gaps at an entry and an exit of a wedge portion formed between the photoconductor and the conductive brush .

A brush string of the conductive brush may preferably include a conductive material dispersed into a surface part of the brush string as illustrated in . With such a structure the conductive material easily contacts the residual toner particles so that a larger amount of current flows into the residual toner particles passing through the conductive brush . As a result the residual toner particles tend to be charged to the polarity identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive brush . Therefore the polarity of the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor are easily controlled to the single polarity by the conductive brush .

A polishing blade supported in contact with apart from the photoconductor for polishing the surface of the photoconductor may be provided on a downstream side from the cleaning brush relative to the rotation direction of the photoconductor as illustrated in . is a schematic view illustrating the cleaning device in which the polishing blade contacts the surface of the photoconductor .

A filming material which is a mixture of a base component of the toner particles adhering to the surface of the photoconductor due to the contact of the photoconductor with the developing device the transfer device the cleaning device and so forth provided around the photoconductor additives which are added to the surface of the toner particles for providing fluidity and charging property to the toner particles but are separated from the surface of the toner particles materials generated by an electric discharge from the charger talc particles of the sheet and so forth is hardly removed from the surface of the photoconductor by using the conductive blade and the cleaning brush . A smaller amount of the filming material adhering to the surface of the photoconductor does not often cause image deterioration. However if the filming material remains adhering to the surface of the photoconductor for a predetermined period of time a size of a part of the filming material increases preventing the surface of the photoconductor from being evenly charged and proper image formation. Therefore the filming material adhering to the surface of the photoconductor is required to be removed.

The polishing blade illustrated in includes an abrading agent particle layer in which abrading agent particles are included in an elastic material. The polishing blade is provided such that the abrading agent particle layer contacts the surface of the photoconductor . It is important to fill a surface of the polishing blade in contact with the surface of the photoconductor with the abrading agent particles. For example a volume fraction of the abrading agent particles on the surface of the polishing blade in contact with the surface of the photoconductor is preferably from 50 to 90 . When the above described volume fraction of the abrading agent particles is less than 50 a number of the abrading agent particles in contact with the surface of the photoconductor is not sufficient. Consequently the filming material adhering to the surface of the photoconductor are not efficiently removed. On the other hand when the volume fraction of the abrading agent particles exceeds 90 the abrading agent particles on the surface of the polishing blade easily come off preventing reliable removal of the filming material adhering to the surface of the photoconductor .

Although the polishing blade illustrated in has a single layer including the abrading agent particle layer the polishing blade may have two layers including the abrading agent particle layer and a blade main layer.

The abrading agent particles are mixed with an elastic material and the mixture is centrifugally formed in a sheet. Thereafter the thus formed sheet is cut into an appropriate size and shape so that the polishing blade is obtained. Thus the polishing blade having a single layer can be manufactured with a simple process.

On the other hand in order to manufacture the polishing blade having two layers smaller amounts of the elastic material and the abrading agent particles are used as compared to the case of manufacturing the polishing blade having a single layer so that a thin sheet of the mixture of the elastic material and the abrading agent particles is formed. The thus formed thin sheet is cut into an appropriate size and shape and consequently a thin blade including the abrading agent particle layer is obtained. Thereafter the thin blade is bonded to the blade main layer including materials such as rubber a resin and metal and the polishing blade having two layers is obtained. Alternatively materials such as a resin and metal included in the blade main layer may be poured on the thin sheet including the abrading agent particles described above to centrifugally form a sheet in which the blade main layer and the thin sheet are integrated. Thereafter the thus formed sheet is cut into an appropriate size and shape and the polishing blade having two layers is obtained. In place of the polishing blade the cleaning device may include a polishing roller as illustrated in . The polishing roller includes a roller on which the abrading agent particle layer including the abrading agent particles is provided.

The present inventors have performed a test in which the amount of residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor after a test image is transferred hereinafter simply referred to as residual toner particles after transfer is measured. Three kinds of toners each having a shape factor SF 1 of 100 150 and 160 are subjected to the test. A developing bias is controlled so that the amount of toner particles adhered to the surface of the photoconductor per unit area is constant regardless of the kind of toner used. Toner particles adhered to the surface of the photoconductor immediately after the test image has been developed is collected by a toner suction jig and weighed. The thus measured weight is hereinafter referred to as the amount of developing toner M1 . On the other hand toner particles adhered to the surface of an intermediate transfer belt after the test image is primarily transferred thereon is collected by a toner suction jig and weighed. The thus measured weight is hereinafter referred to as the amount of transferred toner M2 . The amount of residual toner particles after transfer per unit area is determined by subtracting M2 from M1. The results of the test are shown in .

It is clear from that as the shape factor SF 1 increases the amount of residual toner particles after transfer per unit area increases. In other words the smaller shape factor SF 1 a toner has the smaller amount of residual toner particles remain on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer. In general the life of a cleaning device lengthens as the amount of residual toner particles after transfer decreases because the cleaning device receive less stress. In other words the smaller shape factor SF 1 a toner has the longer life a cleaning device has. For the above reasons toners having a shape factor SF 1 of from 100 to 150 are used in the printer of the first exemplary embodiment.

A spherical toner having a large average circularity preferably used in the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention is prepared by a method including 

dissolving or dispersing toner constituents including a colorant and a binder resin including a modified polyester resin capable of forming an urea bond in an organic solvent to prepare a toner constituent mixture liquid 

dispersing the toner constituent mixture liquid in an aqueous medium while subjecting the modified polyester resin to an addition polymerization to prepare a dispersion including toner particles 

A spherical toner can also be prepared by typical polymerization methods such as an emulsion aggregation method a suspension polymerization method and a dispersion polymerization method. In addition a spherical toner can also be prepared by spheroidizing a pulverization toner by a thermal treatment.

The shape factor SF 1 indicates a proportional roundness of the toner particle and is expressed by an equation of the form SF 1 MXLNG AREA 100 4 . The shape factor SF 1 is obtained by dividing the square of the maximum length MXLNG of the shape produced by projecting a toner particle in a two dimensional plane by the figural surface area AREA and subsequently multiplying by 100 4. Particularly 100 or more toner particles are randomly selected from a toner and are subjected to the measurement of SF 1. The average SF 1 value among the randomly selected toner particles is treated as the shape factor SF 1 of the toner.

The amount of residual toner particles after transfer can be also measured by the following method for example. At first a latent image of a patch pattern having an area of A cm is formed on the photoconductor . The latent image is developed with a toner to form a toner image and the toner image is subsequently transferred. After turning off a main switch of the main body of the printer residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer are sucked by an air pump using a suction jig equipped with a toner collecting filter. The weight M mg of the sucked toner particles is measured. The amount of residual toner particles after transfer per unit area is determined by dividing the weight M mg by the area A cm .

The photoconductor includes a conductive substrate and a photosensitive layer located overlying the conductive substrate. The photosensitive layer may be in direct contact with the conductive substrate or there may be an intervening layer between the photosensitive layer and the conductive substrate. The photosensitive layer includes a charge generation material and a charge transport material and optionally includes a particulate material. The particulate material is preferably localized in the surface side of the photoconductive layer far from the substrate side thereof so that abrasion resistance is improved and electric properties is stabilized. Alternatively the photoconductor may include a conductive substrate a photosensitive layer and a surface layer including a particulate material. The photosensitive layer needs to have electric insulation while being capable of being charged. Therefore the photosensitive layer may be a dielectric layer having no photoconductivity or a photosensitive layer having photoconductivity.

The particulate material is typically pulverized dispersed and applied together with a binder resin a low molecular charge transport material and or a charge transport polymer. The surface layer preferably includes the particulate material in an amount of from 5 to 50 by weight and more preferably from 10 to 40 by weight. When the amount is too small the resultant layer has poor abrasion resistance. When the amount is too large the resultant layer has poor transparency. The particulate material preferably has an average particle diameter of from 0.05 to 1.0 m and more preferably from 0.05 to 0.8 m in the resultant layer.

Inorganic and organic materials having higher hardness than a resin used in the surface layer are preferably used as the particulate material. Specific preferred examples of suitable particulate material include but are not limited to titanium oxide silica tin oxide alumina zirconium oxide indium oxide silicon nitride calcium oxide zinc oxide and barium sulfate. Among these materials titanium oxide silica and barium sulfate are preferably used. These particulate materials may be surface treated with an inorganic or organic material so as to improve dispersibility etc. thereof. For example particulate materials treated with a silane coupling agent a fluorinated silane coupling agent or a higher fatty acid so as to improve water repellency can be used. In addition particulate materials treated with an inorganic material such as alumina zirconium tin oxide or silica can be used.

The surface layer includes for example a polymer having a three dimensional network structure which is formed by a cross linking reaction of a reactive monomer having a plurality of functional groups capable of cross linking per molecule upon application of optical and or thermal energy. The three dimensional network structure imparts good abrasion resistance to the surface layer. From the viewpoints of electric stability and life a reactive monomer partially or entirely having charge transportability is preferably used. Such a monomer is capable of forming a charge transport site in the network structure resulting in improvement of abrasion resistance.

Specific preferred examples of suitable reactive monomer having charge transportability include but are not limited to a compound including one or more a charge transport component and one or more silicon atom having a hydrolyzable substituent group in the same molecule a compound including a charge transport component and a hydroxyl group in the same molecule a compound including a charge transport component and a carboxyl group in the same molecule a compound including a charge transport component and an epoxy group in the same molecule and a compound including a charge transport component and an isocyanate group in the same molecule. These reactive monomers can be used alone or in combination.

More specifically a reactive monomer having a triarylamine structure is preferably used as the monomer having charge transportability because of having good electrical and chemical stability and carrier mobility. Further any known monofunctional and difunctional polymerizable monomers and oligomers may be used in combination for the purpose of controlling viscosity of a coating liquid relaxing stress of a cross linked charge transport layer and reducing surface energy and friction coefficient thereof.

A cross linked polymer is obtained by polymerizing or cross linking a compound having hole transportability upon application of heat and or light. In a case a polymerization reaction occurs by application of heat the polymerization reaction may occur either with or without a polymerization initiator. To efficiently perform the polymerization reaction at a lower temperature a heat polymerization initiator is preferably used in combination. In a case a polymerization reaction occurs by application of light ultraviolet ray is preferably used as the light. In this case the polymerization reaction is hardly performed without a polymerization initiator and only with the application of light. Therefore a light polymerization initiator is typically used in combination. Such a light polymerization initiator mainly absorbs ultraviolet ray having a wavelength not greater than 400 nm so as to produce active species such as radicals and ions. The heat and light polymerization initiators can be used alone or in combination. The thus formed charge transport layer having a network structure has good abrasion resistance however cracks may be formed thereon as the thickness thereof increases. This is because the volume thereof largely contacts when cross linked. To prevent the above problem the surface layer may have a multilayer structure including a lower layer photosensitive layer side including a low molecular dispersion polymer and an upper layer surface side including a polymer having a cross linking structure.

The photoconductor A is manufactured as follows. At first 182 parts of methyltrimethoxysilane 40 parts of dihydroxymethyltriphenylamine 225 parts of 2 propanol 106 parts of a 2 acetic acid and 1 part of aluminum trisacetylacetonate are mixed to prepare a surface layer coating liquid. The coating liquid is applied to a charge transport layer and dried. Subsequently the applied coating liquid is heated for 1 hour at 110 C. to be hardened. Thus a surface layer having a thickness of 3 m is prepared.

The photoconductor B is manufactured as follows. At first 30 parts of a hole transport compound having the following formula 1 30 parts of an acrylic monomer having the following formula 2 and 0.6 parts of a light polymerization initiator 1 hydroxy cyclohexyl phneyl ketone are dissolved in a mixed solvent including 50 parts of monochlorobenzene and 50 parts of dichloromethane to prepare a surface layer coating liquid 

The coating liquid is applied to a charge transport layer by a spray coating method. Subsequently a metal halide lamp irradiates the applied coating liquid for 30 seconds at a light strength of 500 mW cmto harden the applied coating liquid. Thus a surface layer having a thickness of 5 m is prepared.

According to the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention even a smaller amount of the residual toner particles of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade to be identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade can be removed from the surface of the photoconductor by using the cleaning brush . However because the residual toner particles with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade are not collected by the collecting roller the residual toner particles may remain on the cleaning brush preventing frictional charge between the cleaning brush and the toner particles and the residual toner particles and the photoconductor . Therefore the residual toner particles which have the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade and remain adhering to the cleaning brush need to be reliably collected by the collecting roller .

A description is now given of a second exemplary embodiment of the present invention in which such residual toner particles are reliably collected by the collecting roller .

The second exemplary embodiment applied to an electrophotographic printer serving as an image forming apparatus hereinafter referred to as a printer is described in detail below.

In the printer when a start button provided in an operation unit not shown is pressed a predetermined or desired voltage or current is sequentially applied to each of the contactless charging roller the developing roller the transfer device the conductive blade the cleaning brush the collecting roller and a neutralizing lamp not shown at a predetermined or desired timing. At the same time each of the photoconductor the contactless charging roller the developing roller the transfer device a right screw a left screw the cleaning brush the collecting roller and a toner discharging screw is rotated in a predetermined or desired direction. The photoconductor is rotated at a speed of 200 mm s and each of the cleaning brush and the collecting roller is rotated at a speed of 200 mm s.

The contactless charging roller provided in a contactless manner relative to the photoconductor evenly charges the surface of the photoconductor to for example an electric potential of 700V. An exposure device not shown irradiates the laser beam corresponding to an image signal to the surface of the photoconductor . The electric potential at a portion of the photoconductor irradiated by the laser beam falls to for example 120V at a portion of a black solid image so that an electrostatic latent image is formed on the surface of the photoconductor . Subsequently the surface of the photoconductor having the electrostatic latent image thereon contacts the magnetic brush formed of the developer on the developing roller . At this time negatively charged toner particles on the developing roller are attracted to the electrostatic latent image by a developing bias of for example 450V applied to the developing roller and consequently a toner image is formed on the surface of the photoconductor . Meanwhile a paper feed unit not shown feeds a sheet and the sheet is conveyed between the photoconductor and the transfer device in synchronization with a leading edge of the toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor by a registration roller not shown. Thus the toner image is transferred onto the sheet. A current of 10 A is applied to the transfer roller so as to electrostatically transfer the toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor onto the sheet. Thereafter the sheet having the toner image thereon is separated from the photoconductor by a separation mechanism not shown and is discharged from the printer through a fixing device not shown.

Residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed by the transfer device have a broader charge distribution including both of the positively charged toner particles and the negatively charged toner particles and are conveyed to the conductive blade along with the rotation of the photoconductor . The conductive blade is provided in contact with the photoconductor so as to face in the rotation direction of the photoconductor . For example the conductive blade includes an elastic body including a material such as a polyurethane rubber so as to provide conductive property. A thickness of the conductive blade may be from 50 to 2000 m and preferably from 100 to 500 m. If the thickness of the conductive blade is too thin a contact pressure of the conductive blade against the photoconductor are not reliably obtained due to flexibility of the surface of the photoconductor and the conductive blade . On the other hand if the thickness of the conductive blade is too thick the conductive blade absorbs vibration from a vibration member not shown and consequently the vibration is not sufficiently transmitted to the leading edge of the conductive blade . As a result the toner particles adhering to the conductive blade are not shaken off by the vibration member degrading polarity control of the toner particles performed by the conductive blade . The conductive blade may include a material having a JIS A hardness of from 85 to 100 degrees so that the vibration from the vibration member is effectively transmitted to the leading edge of the conductive blade . In the second exemplary embodiment the conductive blade contacts the surface of the photoconductor at a contact angle of 20 with a contact pressure of 20 g cm and an engagement of 0.6 mm and has an electric resistivity of 1 10 cm. The electric resistivity of the conductive blade may be preferably from 2 10 cm to 5 10 cm.

The conductive blade has but is not limited to a flat shape with a thickness of 2 mm a free length of 7 mm a JIS A hardness of from 60 to 80 degrees and an impact resilience of 30 and is bonded to the blade holder including a steel plate. For example the conductive blade preferably has a JIS A hardness of from 40 to 85 degrees. Because the conductive blade does not remove all residual toner particles the amount of the residual toner particles passing through the contact portion between the conductive blade and the photoconductor does not matter.

Most of the residual toner particles are mechanically removed from the surface of the photoconductor by the conductive blade . However a part of the residual toner particles pass through the conductive blade and remain on the surface of the photoconductor due to the stick slip motion of the conductive blade . A voltage with a polarity identical to the regular polarity of the toner particles namely the negative polarity is applied to the conductive blade from the first power circuit so that the conductive blade negatively charges the residual toner particles when the residual toner particles pass through the conductive blade . For example a voltage of 450V is applied to the conductive blade .

When passing through the conductive blade the residual toner particles are triboelectrically charged with a pressure from the photoconductor and the conductive blade and consequently the charge distribution of the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor is shifted toward the negative polarity side as illustrated in . In addition the voltage is applied to the conductive blade to reliably control the polarity of the residual toner particles such that the charge distribution of the residual toner particles are more stably shifted toward the negative polarity side. When the residual toner particles are sandwiched between the conductive blade and the photoconductor a current is flown into the residual toner particles due to the voltage applied to the conductive blade . As a result the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the applied voltage and pass through the conductive blade . Furthermore the residual toner particles are charged to the polarity identical to that of the applied voltage due to a micro discharge from the minute gaps at an entry and an exit of a wedge portion formed between the photoconductor and the conductive blade . However as a result of several measurements of the charge distributions of the residual toner particles passing over the conductive blade by using E SPART analyzer it is found out that the polarity of 90 percent or more of the residual toner particles is reliably controlled and the polarity of 10 percent or less of the residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge is not controlled.

The residual toner particles passing through the conductive blade further pass through an entry seal member along with the rotation of the photoconductor and reaches the cleaning brush . The brush string of the cleaning brush is formed of a conductive polyester and the collecting roller is provided in contact with the cleaning brush . Each of the cleaning brush the collecting roller and the toner discharging screw is rotated by a driving force transmitted from a driving unit of the photoconductor . The collecting roller is formed of a stainless steel and a direct current voltage of 300V is applied to the collecting roller from the second power circuit at the same time when the voltage is applied to the contactless charging roller . An alternating current voltage may be overlapped on the direct current voltage in order to more reliably remove the residual toner particles from the surface of the photoconductor .

The cleaning brush is electrically floated and the voltage is applied to the cleaning brush through a portion where the cleaning brush contacts the collecting roller . Thus the cleaning brush has an electric potential slightly lower than the voltage applied to the collecting roller .

Because most of the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor conveyed to the cleaning brush are negatively charged the brush string of the cleaning brush charged to the positive polarity electrostatically attract the residual toner particles by rotatably contacting the residual toner particles. Thereafter the residual toner particles are electrostatically collected to the collecting roller by the voltage applied to the collecting roller . The residual toner particles collected by the collecting roller are conveyed to the scraper provided in contact with the collecting roller along with the rotation of the collecting roller . Thereafter the scraper scrapes off the residual toner particles from the collecting roller by contacting the surface of the collecting roller .

Meanwhile the residual toner particles which pass through the conductive blade and are not charged to the regular polarity of the toner particles namely the negative polarity also pass through the entry seal member together with the negatively charged residual toner particles described above along with the rotation of the photoconductor and reaches the portion where the cleaning brush contacts the photoconductor . The cleaning brush is formed of polyester including conductive carbon therein and the surface of the brush string includes conductive polyester. Polyester tends to be charged to the negative polarity in the triboelectric series so that polyester is negatively charged by friction with the photoconductor which includes a thin polycarbonate film including a photoconductive material on a surface of an aluminum drum. Therefore the brush string of the cleaning brush is negatively charged by contacting the photoconductor so that the positively charged residual toner particles which are not charged to the regular polarity by the conductive blade electrostatically adhere to the brush string of the cleaning brush and are removed from the surface of the photoconductor .

Thus a smaller amount of the positively charged residual toner particles which are not charged to the regular polarity by the conductive blade is removed from the surface of the photoconductor by the cleaning brush as described above. However because the positively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade are not collected by the collecting roller the positively charged residual toner particles remain adhering to the cleaning brush preventing frictional charge between the cleaning brush and the residual toner particles and the cleaning brush and the photoconductor . To solve such a problem the positively charged residual toner particles need to be removed from the cleaning brush at a predetermined timing. Only the positively charged residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge are collected by the brush string . Therefore even if the positively charged residual toner particles are not collected by the collecting roller and are conveyed to the portion where the cleaning brush contacts the photoconductor again the positively charged residual toner particles are hardly affected by an electric field between the cleaning brush and the photoconductor . As a result the positively charged residual toner particles remain adhering to the brush string and hardly adhere to the surface of the photoconductor .

Referring back to the second power circuit includes a first power source for applying a voltage of 300V to the collecting roller and a second power source for applying a voltage of 300V to the collecting roller . The second power circuit further includes a switching member for switching the power source for applying the voltage to the collecting roller between the first power source and the second power source . Thus a polarity of the voltage applied to the collecting roller is switched by the switching member

As described above the switching member connects to the first power source so as to apply the voltage of 300V from the first power source to the collecting roller during normal cleaning operations. Consequently the cleaning brush is charged to an electric potential of 220V which is slightly lower than the electric potential of the collecting roller . Therefore the negatively charged residual toner particles which have the polarity controlled to be identical to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade and adhere to the cleaning brush are electrostatically collected by the collecting roller and are removed from the cleaning brush . The negatively charged toner particles electrostatically collected by the collecting roller are conveyed to the scraper along with the rotation of the collecting roller and are scraped off by the scraper . Thereafter the residual toner particles are conveyed to a waste toner tank provided outside of the cleaning device thorough the toner discharge screw .

Meanwhile the switching member switches the power source for applying the voltage to the collecting roller from the first power source to the second power source to collect the positively charged residual toner particles. Accordingly a voltage of 300V is applied to the collecting roller and a leading edge of the cleaning brush is charged to an electric potential of about 200V. As a result the positively charged residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush are attracted to the collecting roller having a higher negative electric field and adhere to the collecting roller . Therefore the positively charged residual toner particles are removed from the cleaning brush . The positively charged residual toner particles adhering to the collecting roller are conveyed to the scraper along with the rotation of the collecting roller and are scraped off by the scraper . Thereafter the residual toner particles are conveyed to the waste toner tank provided outside of the cleaning device thorough the toner discharge screw .

The positively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade are collected from the cleaning brush when a single printing operation is completed or at an appropriate timing during the printing operation. Because the residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge for example 0 fC are not electrostatically collected it is not preferable to collect the positively charged residual toner particles when the printer is not operated for a long time so that the amount of charge of the residual toner particles decreases. Therefore it is most preferable to collect the positively charged residual toner particles from the cleaning brush immediately after a single printing operation is completed. In a case in which image formation is continuously performed for a long time in a single printing operation the positively charged residual toner particles may be collected at a predetermined timing during image formation. The voltage of 300V is preferably applied to the collecting roller for a time when the cleaning brush is rotated one revolution or more and more preferably for a time when the cleaning brush is rotated five revolutions or more.

The high resistance collecting roller includes a stainless steel core with a diameter of 16 mm and a surface of the stainless steel core is coated with a PVDF in a thickness of 100 m and is further covered with an acrylic UV curing resin layer. The high resistance collecting roller has a resistivity of 10 .

The brush charge application unit includes a brush charge application member and a fourth power circuit . The brush charge application member is provided on a downstream side from a portion where the cleaning brush and the high resistance collecting roller contact each other relative to the rotation direction of the cleaning brush and on an upstream side from the portion where the cleaning brush and the photoconductor contact each other relative to the rotation direction of the cleaning brush . The brush charge application member includes a stainless bar extending in an axial direction of the brush rotation shaft and contacts the leading edge of the cleaning brush with an engagement of 1 mm. The brush charge application member is connected to the fourth power circuit and a voltage with the polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade is applied to the brush charge application member from the fourth power circuit . A material included in the brush charge application member is not limited to a stainless steel as long as the material is conductive. Furthermore a shape of the brush charge application member is not limited to a bar like shape and may be a plate like shape.

The roller charge application unit includes a conductive scraper including a conductive polyurethane blade and a fifth power circuit for applying a voltage to the conductive scraper . The fifth power circuit includes a first power source for applying a positive voltage to the conductive scraper and a second power source for applying a negative voltage to the conductive scraper . The fifth power circuit further includes a switching member for switching the power source for applying the voltage to the conductive scraper between the first power source and the second power source

In the first exemplary variation a voltage with a polarity opposite to that of the voltage applied to the conductive blade is applied from the third power circuit to the brush rotation shaft of the cleaning brush .

The high resistance collecting roller more reliably collects the residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush improving cleaning performance of the cleaning brush .

Referring to an electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush when an electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller is about 700V is lower than that when an electric potential of the surface of the collecting roller is about 700V. Therefore when the voltages applied to the rotation shafts of each of the collecting roller and the high resistance collecting roller are increased a larger potential difference between the surface of the high resistance collecting roller and the leading edge of the cleaning brush is obtained as compared to a potential difference between the surface of the collecting roller and the leading edge of the cleaning brush . Such a larger potential difference increases an electrostatic force to move the residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush to the high resistance collecting roller improving toner collecting performance of the high resistance collecting roller

As is clear from the graph illustrated in although the collection rate of the residual toner particles when the collecting roller is used is 80 at a maximum the collection rate of the residual toner particles when the high resistance collecting roller is used may be 100 or more. Here the collection rate of the residual toner particles may exceed 100 because the toner particles are provided to the photoconductor for 10 seconds the cleaning brush and the high resistance collecting roller may not entirely collect the residual toner particles for the first few seconds and a part of the residual toner particles remain on the cleaning brush . Therefore the high resistance collecting roller collect both of the residual toner particles remaining on the cleaning brush and the residual toner particles sequentially collected by the cleaning brush at the same time. As a result the amount of the residual toner particles collected by the high resistance collecting roller may exceed the amount of the toner particles provided to the photoconductor and the collection rate of the residual toner particles exceeds 100 .

As is clear from the graphs respectively illustrated in B and the high resistance collecting roller can provide higher toner collecting performance as compared to the collecting roller .

Referring to the high resistance collecting roller has a higher margin of the applied voltage relative to the cleaning residual toner particle ID as compared to the collecting roller even when the applied voltage is increased. Accordingly higher cleaning performance can be obtained even when the voltage applied to the high resistance collecting roller is increased. A possible reason for this is described below.

A positive voltage V which is set such that the leading edge of the cleaning brush has a higher electric potential than that of the surface of the photoconductor after passing through the conductive blade is applied to the brush rotation shaft and a positive voltage V which is higher than the positive voltage V is applied to the rotation shafts of each of the collecting roller and the high resistance collecting roller to collect the residual toner particles negatively charged by the conductive blade . In such a case the negatively charged residual toner particles adhere to the cleaning brush charged to the positive polarity. In addition the positively charged residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge of which polarity is not controlled to be negative by the conductive blade also adhere to the brush string of the cleaning brush due to the frictional charge between the brush string and the photoconductor . Thereafter the negatively charged toner particles adhere to the collecting roller or the high resistance collecting roller each of which is positively charged and has a higher electric potential than that of the cleaning brush and are collected by the collecting roller or the high resistance collecting roller . When contacting the toner particles adhering to the brush string of the cleaning brush each of the collecting roller and the high resistance collecting roller supplies a charge to the brush string and the residual toner particles adhering thereto until the brush string and the residual toner particles have an electric potential identical to that of the surface of each of the collecting roller and the high resistance collecting roller . Thereafter the voltage is applied from the second power circuit to each of the collecting roller and the high resistance collecting roller again to raise the electric potential of the surface of each of the collecting roller and the high resistance collecting roller . It is estimated that a time required for the surface of the collecting roller to have the electric potential identical to that of the voltage applied from the second power circuit again after supplying the charge is shorter than the time required for the surface of the high resistance collecting roller under the same condition as described above. Therefore as compared to the high resistance collecting roller the collecting roller supplies a larger amount of charge to the residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush at a portion where the collecting roller contacts the cleaning brush . The amount of charge supplied to the residual toner particles increases as the voltage applied to the collecting roller is increased. Therefore the positively charged residual toner particles with a smaller amount of charge adhering to the cleaning brush by the frictional charge between the cleaning brush and the photoconductor turn into the positively charged residual toner particles with a larger amount of charge when the applied voltage is increased. In addition the negatively charged residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush are reversed to the positively charged residual toner particles with a larger amount of charge. Consequently a larger number of the residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush turn into the positively charged residual toner particles with a larger amount of charge and move to the surface of the photoconductor from the cleaning brush because the photoconductor has a higher negative electric potential as compared to the leading edge of the cleaning brush . As a result the cleaning residual toner particle ID increases. On the other hand in a case in which the high resistance collecting roller of which surface has a resistivity of 10to 10 is used a smaller amount of charge is applied to the residual toner particles between the brush string and the high resistance collecting roller . Therefore a smaller amount of the residual toner particles is strongly charged to the positive polarity even when a higher voltage is applied to the high resistance collecting roller so that a smaller cleaning residual toner particle ID can be obtained as compared to the case in which the collecting roller is used.

As described above the residual toner particles between the brush string and the high resistance collecting roller do not tend to be strongly charged to the positive polarity when the surface of the high resistance collecting roller has the resistivity of 10 or more at the higher temperature and humidity.

However when the high resistance collecting roller is used under a condition of lower temperature and humidity problems of changes in the electric potentials of each of the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the high resistance collecting roller occur as described below.

An experiment has been performed by using a laboratory equipment illustrated in under a condition at a lower temperature of 10 C. and a lower humidity of 15 . An electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller is measured at a portion S after the residual toner particles adhering to the high resistance collecting roller has been removed by the conductive scraper . As a result it is found out that the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller decreases at the portion S. In addition an electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush which rotatively contacts the high resistance collecting roller is measured by using a surface electrometer at a portion R. As a result it is found out that the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush also varies at the portion R within several hundred volts.

Referring to the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller decreases by 400V 10 seconds later from the start of cleaning. Furthermore the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush varies within about 250V. A potential difference of about 400V between the surface of the high resistance collecting roller and the leading edge of the cleaning brush decreases to about 30V 10 seconds later from the start of cleaning.

Referring to the potential difference between the surface of the high resistance collecting roller and the leading edge of the cleaning brush is still 150V 2 seconds later from the start of cleaning although decrease in the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller and change in the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush are already started at that time. Referring to unlike the above described two examples the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller does not vary within several hundred volts and the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush does not vary within several hundreds volts when the measurement is performed for 10 seconds without supplying the toner particles to the photoconductor . Factors which cause the above described change and decrease in the electric potentials are not yet known. However because the above described change and decrease are correlated with the supply of the toner particles it is no doubt that the supply of the toner particles affects the electric potentials of each of the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller . So far it is thought that an electric discharge occurs when the charged residual toner particles adhering to the surface of the high resistance collecting roller are scraped off by the conductive scraper so that negative charges are applied to the high resistance layer or the insulating layer included in the high resistance collecting roller causing the decrease in the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller . Alternatively it is thought that the residual toner particles adhering to the surface of the high resistance collecting roller apply negative charges to the surface layer of the high resistance collecting roller and such negative charges remain on the high resistance collecting roller even after the residual toner particles have been scraped off by the conductive scraper causing the decrease in the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller

When there is little potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller as illustrated in naturally the residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush are not collected by the high resistance collecting roller and remain adhering to the cleaning brush . Therefore the residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor are not reliably cleaned. To solve such a problem in the first exemplary variation charges are applied from the roller charge application unit to the surface of the high resistance collecting roller to prevent the decrease in the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller as described above.

However as illustrated in when the high resistance collecting roller is used the electric potential of the leading edge of the cleaning brush is considerably changed if it takes 2 seconds or more from the start to the end of cleaning at the lower temperature and humidity. To prevent such a considerable change in the electric potential in the first exemplary variation charges are applied from the brush charge application unit to the leading edge of the cleaning brush as described above. Here the brush charge application member of the brush charge application unit is provided in contact with the leading edge of the cleaning brush with an engagement of 1 mm and a voltage of 500V is applied from the fourth power circuit

Referring to the decrease in the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller is further suppressed by increasing the voltage applied to the conductive scraper . Although the conductive scraper having a volume resistivity of 10 cm is used in the first exemplary variation charges can be more effectively applied to the high resistance collecting roller by using the conductive scraper including a material with a lower resistivity as long as toner cleaning performance of the conductive scraper is not degraded. It is desirable that the conductive scraper includes the material having a lower resistivity particularly at the lower temperature and humidity.

The voltages applied to each of the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller and the conductive scraper are not limited to the above described values. Because appropriate values of the applied voltages vary depending on characteristics of a toner the electric potentials of the surface of the photoconductor after passing through the conductive blade or being evenly charged a resistivity of the cleaning brush and so forth the values of the applied voltages may be appropriately set.

A description is now given of cleaning of the surface of the photoconductor according to the first exemplary variation.

Referring back to the residual toner particles charged to the regular polarity of the toner particles namely the negative polarity by the negatively charged conductive blade pass through the entry seal member along with the rotation of the photoconductor and are conveyed to the cleaning brush . A voltage with a polarity opposite to that of the regular polarity of the toner particles controlled by the conductive blade namely the positive polarity is applied to the brush rotation shaft from the third power circuit . Consequently the residual toner particles with the negative polarity electrostatically adhere to the cleaning brush after passing through the conductive blade .

Meanwhile the positively charged residual toner particles which are not charged to the regular polarity of the toner particles when passing through the conductive blade also pass through the entry seal member together with the negatively charged residual toner particles described above along with the rotation of the photoconductor and are conveyed to the cleaning brush . A smaller amount of the positively charged residual toner particles electrostatically adhere to the brush string triboelectrically charged by contacting the photoconductor .

Voltages of 500V 500V 800V and 1000V are respectively applied to the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller and the conductive scraper during normal cleaning operations. Consequently the residual toner particles which are charged to the negative polarity by the conductive blade and adhered to the cleaning brush are collected by the high resistance collecting roller due to the potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller . The residual toner particles collected by the high resistance collecting roller are scraped off by the conductive scraper and are discharged from the cleaning device through the toner discharge screw or are conveyed back to the developing device .

Meanwhile as described above the positively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade are collected from the cleaning brush when a single printing operation is completed or at a predetermined timing during the printing operation. In other words the switching member switches the power source for applying the voltage to the high resistance collecting roller from the first power source to the second power source . In addition the switching member switches the power source for applying the voltage to the conductive scraper from the first power source to the second power source . Consequently voltages of 500V 500V 100V and 500V are respectively applied to the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller and the conductive scraper during collection of the positively charged residual toner particles. Therefore the positively charged residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush electrostatically adhere to the high resistance collecting roller due to the potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller and are removed from the cleaning brush . The positively charged residual toner particles electrostatically collected by the high resistance collecting roller are conveyed to the conductive scraper along with the rotation of the high resistance collecting roller and are scraped off by the conductive scraper . Thereafter the residual toner particles are conveyed to a waste toner tank provided outside of the cleaning device thorough the toner discharge screw .

Thus the brush charge application unit and the roller charge application unit are provided as described above to suppress the change in the potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller . As a result the high resistance collecting roller stably and reliably collects the negatively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is controlled by the conductive blade and the positively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade from the cleaning brush .

A description is now given of a second exemplary variation of the second exemplary embodiment. is a schematic view illustrating the second exemplary variation of the main components of the image forming apparatus according to the second exemplary embodiment. In the second exemplary variation a voltage is not applied to the conductive scraper serving as the roller charge application member during collection of the positively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is not controlled by the conductive blade . Accordingly the image forming apparatus of the second exemplary variation includes a configuration same as that of the image forming apparatus of the first exemplary variation except that the fifth power circuit includes the first power source and a switch

Similarly to the first exemplary variation voltages of 500V 500V 800V and 1000V are respectively applied to the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller and the conductive scraper during normal cleaning operations of collecting the negatively charged residual toner particles of which polarity is controlled by the conductive blade from the cleaning brush . Consequently the negatively charged residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush electrostatically adhere to the high resistance collecting roller due to the potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller . The negatively charged residual toner particles collected by the high resistance collecting roller are scraped off by the conductive blade and are discharged from the cleaning device through the toner discharge screw or are conveyed back to the developing device .

Meanwhile the switching member switches the power source for applying the voltage to the high resistance collecting roller from the first power source to the second power source during collection of the positively charged toner particles. In addition the switch of the fifth power circuit is turned off so that the voltage is not applied to the conductive scraper from the first power source . In other words voltages of 500V 500V and 500V are respectively applied to the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member and the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller and no voltage is applied to the conductive scraper during collection of the positively charged residual toner particles. Therefore the positively charged residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush electrostatically adhere to the high resistance collecting roller due to the potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller generated by applying the voltage of 500V to the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller . Thus the positively charged toner particles are removed from the cleaning brush to the high resistance collecting roller

According to the second exemplary variation a negative voltage is not applied to the conductive scraper during collection of the positively charged toner particles resulting in lower costs of power as compared to the image forming apparatus of the first exemplary variation. However the application of the voltage to the conductive scraper is not required only within a time when the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller is not decreased by the application of the voltage to the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller . In other words the appropriate potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller can be kept for 2 seconds from the start of cleaning as illustrated in . Therefore the configuration of the second exemplary variation is effectively applicable to the image forming apparatus as long as the positively charged residual toner particles are collected by the high resistance collecting roller within 2 seconds.

The time when the appropriate potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller can be kept is not limited to 2 seconds as described above and may vary depending on a resistivity a thickness of a surface layer and a rotation speed of each of the cleaning brush the high resistance collecting roller a toner particle and the photoconductor and so forth. Therefore the time for collecting the positively charged residual toner particles may be preferably set based on results of an experiment.

Alternatively as illustrated in the voltage may not be applied to the high resistance collecting roller during collection of the positively charged residual toner particles. In such a case the second power circuit for applying the voltage to the high resistance collecting roller includes the first power source and a switch

Similarly to the above described example voltages of 500V 500V 800V 1000V are respectively applied to the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller the conductive scraper during normal cleaning operations of collecting the negatively charged residual toner particles from the cleaning brush .

Meanwhile the switch of the second power circuit is turned off so that a voltage is not applied to the high resistance collecting roller from the first power source during collection of the positively charged residual toner particles. In addition the switching member of the fifth power circuit switches the power source for applying the voltage to the conductive scraper from the first power source to the second power source . In other words voltages of 500V 500V and 500V are respectively applied to the brush rotation shaft the brush charge application member and the conductive scraper and no voltage is applied to the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller during collection of the positively charged residual toner particles. Therefore the positively charged residual toner particles adhering to the cleaning brush are electrostatically collected by the high resistance collecting roller due to the potential difference between the leading edge of the cleaning brush and the surface of the high resistance collecting roller generated by applying the voltage of 500V to the conductive scraper . Thus the positively charged toner particles are collected by the high resistance collecting roller from the cleaning brush .

A lower costs of power can be achieved with the configuration illustrated in as compared to the image forming apparatus of the first exemplary variation. In the configuration illustrated in the positively charged residual toner particles are required to be collected from the cleaning brush within the time when the electric potential of the surface of the high resistance collecting roller is not decreased by the application of the voltage to the rotation shaft of the high resistance collecting roller

Referring to the photoconductor and the cleaning device may be integrally formed within a frame to form a process cartridge which can be attached to detached from the image forming apparatus. Although not only the photoconductor and the cleaning device but also the charger and the developing device are integrally provided in the process cartridge illustrated in the process cartridge in which at least the photoconductor and the cleaning device are integrally provided is applicable.

Examples of employing the cleaning device according to exemplary embodiments in a color image forming apparatus are described in detail below with reference to .

A typical color image forming apparatus is large in size because of including a plurality of image forming parts. In addition such a color image forming apparatus has a complicated configuration. Therefore it takes a lot of trouble replacing each image forming unit such as a cleaning unit and a charging unit when the image forming unit is out of order or the life thereof comes to the end. Use of a process cartridge which integrally supports image forming units such as a photoconductor a charging roller a developing device and a cleaning device solves the above described problems and provide a compact color image forming apparatus having high durability and good maintainability.

The tandem type full color image forming apparatus further includes a paper feed cassette not shown in which a plurality of sheets P not shown is stored. A paper feed roller not shown feeds the sheet P sheet by sheet from the paper feed cassette and the sheet P is conveyed to a secondary transfer area between a secondary transfer roller and the intermediate transfer belt at a timing controlled by a pair of registration rollers not shown.

When image forming processes are started in the tandem type full color image forming apparatus photoconductors Y M C and K hereinafter collectively referred to as the photoconductor are rotated in a counterclockwise direction and the intermediate transfer belt is driven in the direction indicated by the arrow D in . After charging rollers Y M C and K hereinafter collectively referred to as the charging roller have evenly charged the surface of the photoconductor laser beams Y M C and K hereinafter collectively referred to as the laser beam which are modulated with image data of each color are irradiated to the surface of the photoconductor to form electrostatic latent images of yellow magenta cyan and black on the surface of the photoconductor respectively. Subsequently developing devices Y M C and K hereinafter collectively referred to as the developing device develop the electrostatic latent images of each color with toners of corresponding colors to form toner images of each color. Obtained toner images of each color are primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt such that the toner images are superimposed on one another. The superimposed toner images are transferred by the secondary transfer roller onto the sheet P conveyed to the secondary transfer area. The sheet P having a transferred toner image thereon is conveyed to a fixing device not shown. In the fixing device heat and pressure are applied to the sheet P to fix the toner image onto the sheet P. After fixing has been performed the sheet P is discharged to a discharge tray not shown. The residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed are removed by the cleaning device . The residual toner particles on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt are removed by an intermediate transfer belt cleaning device . The intermediate transfer belt cleaning device may have the same configuration as the cleaning device .

Even if residual toner particles remaining on the photoconductor include both positively charged and negatively charged toner particles the residual toner particles can be preferably removed from the surfaces of the photoconductor by using the cleaning device in the tandem type full color image forming apparatus shown in . Moreover even if residual toner particles remaining on the intermediate transfer belt include both positively charged and negatively charged toner particles the residual toner particles can be preferably removed from the surfaces of the intermediate transfer belt by using the intermediate transfer belt cleaning device in the tandem type full color image forming apparatus shown in .

Each of the developing devices C M Y and K includes a developing sleeve not shown which rotates to bring magnet brushes of a developer formed thereon into contact with the surface of the photoconductor so that an electrostatic latent image is developed and a developer paddle not shown which rotates to draw up and agitate a developer. A toner contained in each developing device is agitated with a ferrite carrier so that the toner is negatively charged to have a charge amount of from 10 to 25 C g. A developing bias in which an alternating current voltage Vac is overlapped with a negative direct current voltage Vdc or consisting of a direct current voltage is applied to the developing sleeve from a developing bias power source serving as a developing bias applying device not shown so that the developing sleeve is biased to a predetermined potential relative to a metal substrate layer of the photoconductor .

The intermediate transfer device includes the intermediate transfer belt an intermediate transfer belt cleaning device and so forth. The intermediate transfer belt is stretched across a driving roller a bias roller a cleaning facing roller and driven rollers and and is driven by a driving motor not shown. The intermediate transfer belt includes a fluorocarbon resin ETFE ethylene tetrafluoroethylene in which a carbon is dispersed and has a volume resistivity of 10 cm and a surface resistivity of 10 . The secondary transfer roller includes an epichlorohydrin rubber roller covered with a PFE tube and has a volume resistivity of 10 cm. A secondary transfer bias in which an alternating current voltage is overlapped with a negative direct current voltage or consisting of a direct current voltage is applied to the secondary transfer roller from a secondary bias power source serving as a secondary bias applying device not shown.

When image forming processes are started in the single drum type full color image forming apparatus a color scanner not shown reads color image information of an original image by reading each color separation light such as Red R Green G Blue B of the original image. Particularly an irradiating lamp of the color scanner irradiates the original image set on a contact glass so that color image information is provided to a color sensor through mirrors and lenses. The color sensor includes for example a color separation device configured to separate color image information into lights of R G and B and a photoelectric transducer such as a CCD. The color sensor simultaneously reads color separation lights of R G and B of the original image. The thus read color image information is converted into an electrical signal. The signal obtained from the color image information of R G and B are subjected to a color conversion treatment in an image treatment part not shown so that color image data of cyan C magenta M yellow Y and black K are obtained.

In order to obtain the color image data of K C M and Y the color scanner operates as follows. At first an optical system including an irradiating lamp and mirrors scans an original image upon receiving a scanning start signal corresponding with a timing of an operation of a color printer. A single scanning operation reads single color image data. By repeating the scanning operation four times color image data of four colors can be obtained.

The photoconductor is rotated in a counterclockwise direction and the intermediate transfer belt is driven in a clockwise direction in . After the charging roller has evenly charged the surface of the photoconductor to an electric potential of from 500V to 700V a laser beam modulated with cyan image data is irradiated to the surface of the photoconductor to form an electrostatic latent image of cyan having an electric potential of from 80V to 130V on the surface of the photoconductor . Subsequently the developing device C develops the electrostatic latent image of cyan with a cyan toner. An obtained cyan toner image having a toner concentration of from 2 to 6 by weight is primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt . After the cleaning device has removed residual cyan toner particles from the surface of the photoconductor the charging roller evenly charges the surface of the photoconductor again. Next the laser beam modulated with magenta image data is irradiated to the surface of the photoconductor to form an electrostatic latent image of magenta on the surface of the photoconductor . Subsequently the developing device M develops the electrostatic latent image of magenta with a magenta toner. An obtained magenta toner image is primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt such that the magenta toner image is superimposed on the cyan toner image primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt in advance. Thereafter yellow and black toner images are primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt respectively by the similar processes described above. The formation order of electrostatic latent images of each color on the photoconductor is not limited to the above described order. The electrostatic latent images of each color may be formed on the photoconductor in any desired order. The primarily transfer bias voltages of the first second third and fourth color are 1200V 1300V 1400V and 1500V respectively. The toner images of each color which are superimposed on one another on the intermediate transfer belt are transferred by the secondary transfer roller onto the sheet P conveyed to the secondary transfer area. The secondary transfer bias voltage is 1300V. The sheet P having a transferred toner image thereon is conveyed to a fixing device not shown by a sheet conveyance belt . In the fixing device heat and pressure are applied to the sheet P to fix the toner image onto the sheet P. After fixing has been performed the sheet P is discharged to a discharge tray not shown. The residual toner particles on the surface of the photoconductor after transfer has been performed are removed by the cleaning device . The residual toner particles on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt are removed by the intermediate transfer belt cleaning device . The intermediate transfer belt cleaning device may have the same configuration as the cleaning device .

Even if residual toner particles remaining on the photoconductor include both positively charged and negatively charged toner particles the residual toner particles can be preferably removed from the surfaces of the photoconductor by using the cleaning device in the single drum type full color image forming apparatus shown in . Moreover even if residual toner particles remaining on the intermediate transfer belt include both positively charged and negatively charged toner particles the residual toner particles can be preferably removed from the surfaces of the intermediate transfer belt by using the intermediate transfer belt cleaning device in the single drum type full color image forming apparatus shown in .

The color scanner reads color image information of an original image by reading each color separation light such as Red R Green G and Blue B of the original image. The thus read color image information is converted into an electrical signal. The signal obtained from the color image information of R G and B are subjected to a color conversion treatment in an image treatment part not shown so that color image data of cyan C magenta M yellow Y and black K are obtained.

The image forming part includes a photoconductor serving as an image bearing member a charger serving as a charging device an optical writing unit serving as an irradiating device a revolver developing unit serving as a developing device the cleaning device an intermediate transfer device a secondary transfer bias roller serving as a secondary transfer device and a fixing device including a pair of fixing rollers and

The photoconductor rotates in a counterclockwise direction as indicated by an arrow B. The charger the revolver developing unit the cleaning device and an intermediate transfer belt serving as an intermediate transfer member of the intermediate transfer device are provided around the photoconductor .

The revolver developing unit includes a black developing device K containing a black toner a cyan developing device C containing a cyan toner a magenta developing device M containing a magenta toner a yellow developing device Y containing a yellow toner a developing revolver driving part not shown to drive the revolver developing unit to rotate in a counterclockwise direction and so forth. Once a copying operation is started one of the developing devices moves to an area i.e. developing area facing the photoconductor to develop an electrostatic latent image with a first color toner. After the rear end of the first color toner image passes through the developing area the revolver developing unit rotates so that the next color toner develops an electrostatic latent image.

The intermediate transfer device includes the intermediate transfer belt stretched across a primary transfer bias roller a belt driving roller a belt tension roller etc. The above described rollers are formed of a conductive material. The rollers except for the primary transfer bias roller are grounded. A transfer bias controlled to have a predetermined current or voltage according to the number of toner images superimposed is applied to the primary transfer bias roller from a primary transfer power source not shown controlled with a constant current or voltage. The intermediate transfer belt is rotated in a direction indicated by an arrow G by the belt driving roller rotated by a driving motor not shown. A pre transfer charger hereinafter referred to as the PTC not shown configured to evenly charge a toner image before the toner image is transferred onto a paper P the secondary transfer bias roller an intermediate transfer belt cleaning device serving as an intermediate transfer member cleaning device and so forth are provided around the intermediate transfer belt .

In a primary transfer area where a toner image is transferred from the photoconductor onto the intermediate transfer belt the primary transfer bias roller press the intermediate transfer belt against the photoconductor so that the intermediate transfer belt is tightly stretched. Thereby a nip having a predetermined width is formed between the photoconductor and the intermediate transfer belt .

When image forming processes are started in the revolver type full color image forming apparatus the photoconductor is rotated in the counterclockwise direction indicated by the arrow B by a driving motor not shown. Subsequently the charger evenly charges the photoconductor to a predetermined negative potential by corona discharge. The optical writing unit irradiates the photoconductor with a raster light beam L based on a signal of a black color image so as to form an electrostatic latent image thereon. As described above the electrostatic latent image is developed with the first color toner. Subsequently the intermediate transfer belt is rotated in the counterclockwise direction indicated by the arrow G by the belt driving roller . Toner images of black cyan magenta and yellow are successively superimposed on one another on the intermediate transfer belt along with a rotation of the intermediate transfer belt . A transfer process in which a toner image is transferred from the photoconductor onto the intermediate transfer belt is hereinafter referred to as a belt transfer process .

The intermediate transfer belt may include a belt material having a multilayer structure including a surface layer an intermediate layer and a base layer or a single layer structure. In the revolver type full color image forming apparatus a multilayered intermediate transfer belt having a thickness of 0.15 mm a width of 368 mm and an inner perimeter of 565 mm is used as the intermediate transfer belt . The intermediate transfer belt is set to move at a velocity of 250 mm sec. The intermediate transfer belt includes a surface layer having a thickness of about 1 m which is insulative an intermediate layer including PVDF polyvinylidene fluoride and having a thickness of about 75 m which is insulative having a volume resistivity of about 10 cm and a base layer including PVDF and titanium oxide and having a thickness of about 75 m which has a medium resistivity having a volume resistivity of from 10to 10 cm . The intermediate transfer belt including the above described layers has a volume resistivity of from 10to 10 cm. The volume resistivity can be measured according to a method based on JIS K 6911 by applying a voltage of 100V for 10 seconds. The surface of the surface layer of the intermediate transfer belt has a surface resistivity of from 10to 10 when measured by a resistivity meter HIRESTA IP manufactured by Yuka Denshi Co. Ltd. The surface resistivity can be also measured according to a method based on JIS K 6911.

The toner images of black cyan magenta and yellow are successively formed on the photoconductor and subsequently transferred from the photoconductor one by one onto the same position of the intermediate transfer belt . As a result a superimposed toner image in which four toner images are superimposed on one another at a maximum is formed. The superimposed toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is evenly charged by the PTC not shown. The sheet P is timely fed by a pair of registration rollers to meet the superimposed toner image so that the superimposed toner image is transferred onto the sheet P due to a transfer bias applied to the secondary transfer bias roller i.e. a secondary transfer process . The sheet P having the superimposed toner image thereon is diselectrified by a diselectrification device not shown and separated from the intermediate transfer belt . Subsequently the sheet P having the superimposed toner image thereon is conveyed to the fixing device so that the superimposed toner image is melted and fixed on the sheet P at the nip between the fixing rollers and B and discharged by a pair of discharge rollers .

On the other hand residual toner particles remaining on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt after the toner image is transferred onto the sheet P are removed by the intermediate transfer belt cleaning device .

The above described embodiment refers to a four color copying operation. A three color or two color copying operation can be similarly performed by specifying the kind and number of colors.

Even if residual toner particles remaining on the photoconductor include both positively charged and negatively charged toner particles the residual toner particles can be preferably removed from the surfaces of the photoconductor by using the cleaning device in the revolver type full color image forming apparatus shown in . Moreover even if residual toner particles remaining on the intermediate transfer belt include both positively charged and negatively charged toner particles the residual toner particles can be preferably removed from the surfaces of the intermediate transfer belt by using the intermediate transfer belt cleaning device in the revolver type full color image forming apparatus shown in .

Elements and or features of different exemplary embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such exemplary variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

The number of constituent elements locations shapes and so forth of the constituent elements are not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

