---

title: Provision of remote system recovery services
abstract: In an illustrative embodiment, a computer implemented method for providing remote system recovery services is provided. The computer implemented method generates bootable system recovery images to form a set of bootable system recovery images, creates a list of authorized users from a set of subscribers, and receives a request for a bootable system recovery image, including a subscriber identifier, to form a received request. The computer implemented method further authenticates the subscriber identifier in the received request and sends the bootable system recovery image to the subscriber. Responsive to a determination that the user selected additional services, the computer implemented method performs the selected services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08055892&OS=08055892&RS=08055892
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08055892
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
The present invention relates generally to an improved data processing system and more specifically to a computer implemented method an apparatus and a computer program product for providing remote system recovery services.

The advent of computers has caused users to rely on them heavily as tools for use every day. Dependence upon computers has become so widespread that many users cannot function without the devices as well as the information and services the devices provide. However all computer systems do not operate forever without some form of component failure.

When a system is not able to boot from the system hard drive an alternate boot choice is needed. Typically a recovery method involves booting the disabled system from the selection of either a recovery partition floppy disk or compact disc CD to perform problem determination on the system. Many newer systems sold today have bootable recovery partitions installed to allow customers or owners to attempt to recover and restore the machine.

However older systems and typical home built systems do not come with such features. The only option for these systems is to use a bootable floppy or compact disc to recover their system. Most novice computer users never think to create a bootable recovery disk while their machine is in good working order to prepare for a situation when the system becomes unbootable through normal boot processes.

Even when the users are able to locate the operating system compact discs that originally came with the system the recovery options offered are usually quite limited and or difficult to use. In addition the use of the floppy or compact disk as a boot image does not always allow for network configuration.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for providing remote system recovery services is provided. The computer implemented method generates bootable system recovery images to form a set of bootable system recovery images creates a list of authorized users from a set of subscribers and receives a request for a bootable system recovery image including a subscriber identifier to form a received request. The computer implemented method further authenticates the subscriber identifier in the received request and sends the bootable system recovery image to the subscriber.

In accordance with another embodiment a data processing system for providing a service of remote system recovery services is provided. The data processing system comprises a bus a memory connected to the bus wherein the memory comprising computer executable instructions a communication unit connected to the bus and a processor unit connected to the bus. The processor unit executes the computer executable instructions to direct the data processing system to generate bootable system recovery images to form a set of bootable system recovery images create a list of authorized users from a set of subscribers receive a request for a bootable system recovery image including a subscriber identifier to form a received request authenticate the subscriber identifier in the received request and send the bootable system recovery image to the subscriber.

In accordance with another embodiment a computer program product for providing a service of remote system recovery services is provided. The computer program product comprises computer readable recordable medium tangibly embodying computer executable instructions thereon. The computer executable instructions comprise computer executable instructions for generating bootable system recovery images to form a set of bootable system recovery images computer executable instructions for creating a list of authorized users from a set of subscribers computer executable instructions for receiving a request for a bootable system recovery image including a subscriber identifier to form a received request computer executable instructions for authenticating the subscriber identifier in the received request and computer executable instructions for sending the bootable system recovery image to the subscriber.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and connect to network . Clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example. Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

Using example system of a broadband service provider on a server such as server packages together a set of bootable system recovery images suitable for subscribers such as client and client . There may be one or more images created depending on platforms supported processor architecture or manufacture and or levels of recovery provided. The level of recovery may be provided in the form of additional software or service provided once the system boots.

For a specific customer from a set of customers such as client who subscribes to the service the customer modem media access control address MAC is entered into a database of pre boot execution environment PXE clients. The set of customers comprises one or more customers and similarly a set of subscribers comprises one or more subscribers. For each subscribing client there is a suitable boot image and a recovery root file system that is remotely mountable. Remote mount allows the client to access the recovery service on server through network and use the bootable image stored there. When a system of the subscribing user such as client becomes unbootable client can switch the basic input output service BIOS of the client system to the pre boot execution environment that will connect and initiate the remote boot from the image stored on server of the service provider.

Switching to the pre boot execution environment enables the client system to boot to the system hosted by the respective broadband provider. The service provider may have a Linux based file system to contain the bootable recovery images due to its file system compatibilities with file systems of operating systems such as Apple OSX available from Apple Inc. and Windows operating systems available from Microsoft Inc. . Once booted the service of the recovery system operating on client can offer several different recovery applications and procedures to help the customer. Additionally when a customer service representative of the service provider on server is also involved the service representative may aid in the recovery of the system or the data depending upon the situation related to the system failure.

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable program code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments. In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices. A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information either on a temporary basis and or a permanent basis. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard and mouse. Further input output unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer readable media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be in a tangible form such as for example an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . In a tangible form computer readable media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . The tangible form of computer readable media is also referred to as computer recordable storage media. In some instances computer readable media may not be removable.

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system from computer readable media through a communications link to communications unit and or through a connection to input output unit . The communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples. The computer readable media also may take the form of non tangible media such as communications links or wireless transmissions containing the program code. The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. As one example a storage device in data processing system is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory persistent storage and computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example memory or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .

With reference to a block diagram of components of a bootable system recovery service in accordance with illustrative embodiments is shown. Bootable system recovery service is shown within memory of system of . System in this example may be implemented as server of system of .

Bootable system recovery service contains a number of components including list of authorized users bootable system recovery image builder bootable system recovery image database authorization service notification service and additional support offerings database . The set of services and data provide a deliverable service solution via a network such as network of to clients having a need to recover a disabled system.

List of authorized users is a set of subscribers that have agreed to receive a service offering from the remote service provider. The service offering may be in the form of a bootable image or a bootable image plus additional services such as problem determination support and re configuration aid. A client typically subscribes prior to receiving a service.

Bootable system recovery image builder provides a capability of the service provider system to create system images as needed for the set of clients being supported. For example if clients require a selection of images based on specific platforms an image will be built for each target system. Additionally custom images based on the platform image may also be created to satisfy a specific customer need.

Bootable system recovery image database is a repository of previously created system images. These images may be retrieved selectively by a subscriber requesting a recoverable system during a recovery session operation. The repository provides a set of ready to use system images to facilitate client recovery.

Authorization service provides a capability of verifying that a requesting user is a valid subscriber and is eligible to receive a service or system recovery image from bootable system recovery image database . Authorization service may also verify the settings of the user system in addition to user identifier information to further validate system settings for downloading of the system recovery image.

Notification service provides feedback to the requesting subscriber or prospective client. The feedback may be a response to an authorization request or a request to enroll as a subscriber. The service also provides communication of response files such as those needed to initiate a further download. Notification service typically interfaces with the message system of the service provider to provide the communication capability.

Additional support offerings database provides services and products that may be used to enhance the basic provision of a system recovery image. For example a service may be offered to perform examination of the client system in a problem determination mode after the system has been recovered. A product may be offered to scan a client system for possible problem areas or to adjust system settings to improve performance or reliability of the client system. Such products may be downloaded to the client or executed remotely as needed. An additional service offering may be performed by the client the service provider or a combination of both and may include but is not limited to tools procedures and tips to improve the subscriber system.

With reference to a block diagram of a bootable system recovery system in accordance with illustrative embodiments is shown. As shown in an example embodiment bootable system recovery system is centered on main components of network which connects subscriber with service provider . Service provider has access to bootable system recovery image database and additional support offerings database . Bootable system recovery system supports pre boot execution environment PXE allowing computer systems to be booted using a network interface independent of an available storage device or an installed operating system. Subscriber has the pre boot execution environment firmware installed.

The pre boot execution environment was introduced by Intel Incorporated as part of a wired for management initiative. A specification describing the framework was published by Intel and Systemsoft Corporation on Sep. 20 1999. The specification uses a set of established network protocols and identification mechanisms and extends the firmware of the pre boot execution environment client and the system to be bootstrapped for recovery with a set of predefined application programming interfaces. During a recovery process the pre boot execution environment firmware on the client locates the service provider and engages in a dialog. Through the recovery process over the network the pre boot execution environment firmware causes a system image to be located on a service provider and installed on the client. The download of the needed recovery image typically uses trivial file transfer protocol TFTP while the location services typically uses dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP an Internet protocol for automating the configuration of computers that use transmission control program internet protocol TCP IP as a commonly used communication protocol.

Within bootable system recovery image database may be found image and image as examples of bootable system images to be used selectively by subscriber as required. Bootable system images may be specific to an operating system platform or further tailored to meet specific requirements of a subscriber.

Request for a system recovery image including a subscriber identifier is initiated by subscriber . A subscriber identifier may be a universally unique identifier UUID a media access control address MAC or Ethernet hardware address EHA that is a hardware address or adapter address that is a quasi unique identifier attached to most network adapters such as a network interface card. Request flows through network to service provider where the request is verified and resolved.

For example subscriber encounters a boot failure and desires to recover. The recovery process requests an image from service provider . The pre boot execution environment on subscriber retrieves image via a network bootstrap program loaded into the memory of subscriber and is then able to reboot from the retrieved image. The network bootstrap program loaded into the memory of subscriber may typically be the first segment of code received from the service provider.

With reference to a flowchart of a process using a bootable system recovery service in accordance with illustrative embodiments is shown. Process is an example of use of bootable recovery service of in the bootable system recovery system of .

Process begins step and generates bootable system recovery images step . The bootable system recovery images may be generated to support a planned variety of operating system platforms and can be created to support typical environments of the individual platforms. Additional images may be created based on more specific requirements of client subscribers. The added images may be tailored to suit a specific customer implementation or may be directed to a very simple initial implementation to allow service personnel access to a system for further work and repair. The generated images are then stored as a set of bootable system recovery images in a database step . The database may be a suitable storage area as maintained by a file system and is not intended to be limited to a database implementation. The set of bootable system recovery images contain a plurality of images representing different operating system platforms and subscriber unique images.

Create list of authorized users is performed to provide a list of subscribers permitted to use and access services of the service provider step . Using a fee based example a user would pay the service provider for the opportunity to use the service when needed. The service provider makes the service available and maintains the images needed by the subscriber. The list of subscribers comprises a set of users that have subscribed to the service.

Recovery of a subscriber system is initiated by a receive request for system recovery by the service provider step . The request is typically initiated by the firmware on the subscriber system but a subscriber voice may also be used to commence the recovery. Authenticate request for bootable system recovery image is performed to verify whether the subscriber is permitted to access the services and products of the service provider step . Authentication may also provide information related to the specific system to be recovered. A determination is made as to whether the subscriber is an authorized user step . When the request is for an authorized user a yes result is obtained. When the request if from a user that is not authorized a no result is obtained. When a no is obtained in step an indication of the failed authorization is sent as a notify requester operation step with process terminating thereafter step . Notification may be in the form of a message or other suitable means of alerting the requester. For example if the authorization failed the firmware may timeout with a suggestion of the cause of the timeout as being one of several causes including authorization failure.

When a yes is returned in step the service provider will send bootable system recovery image to the authorized user or subscriber step . The initial download may include a network bootstrap program which may then load additional files needed for the remote boot operation. A determination is made as to whether the authorized user selected additional services step . Additional services may also include products requiring further download of files. Services may be other free or fee based offerings desired by the subscriber related to recovery performance or maintenance of the subscriber system.

When additional services are selected a yes is obtained in step . When no additional services are requested a no result is obtained. When a no is obtained in step process terminates thereafter step . When as yes is obtained in step perform the selected service causes the subscriber selected services to be initiated step with process terminating thereafter step . As stated previously the services may also include product offerings and the services may involve additional processing regarding the recovery of the subscriber system.

In an illustrative embodiment a service made available by a provider offers system recovery images from which a subscriber may receive a selected system recovery image is described. The service may also provide additional services and products to enhance the recovery operation for or the result of the subscriber. The service is typically offered across a broadband network to enable easier connectivity rapid response and bandwidth to support the file transfer. The service is offered as a subscription service to users who become subscribers of the service.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

