---

title: Embeddable web application agent
abstract: In one example embodiment, a code segment may be embedded in a web page by a web page publisher, and the code segment may be executed at least in part by a user computing platform. Information related to one or more web applications may be provided to the user computing platform at least in part in response to the user computing platform executing the code segment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020970&OS=09020970&RS=09020970
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09020970
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
This patent application is being concurrently filed with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 200 545 titled Multiple Views for Web Applications Across Multiple Endpoints filed on Aug. 28 2008 by Gibb et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 200 783 titled Contextually Aware Web Application filed on Aug. 28 2008 by Engel et al. both of which are assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter and incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Subject matter disclosed herein may relate to a web application execution platform and more particularly to a code segment embedded in a web page and executed on a user computing platform.

With networks such as the Internet gaining tremendous popularity and with the vast multitude of pages and or other documents and or other media content becoming available to users via the World Wide Web web it has become desirable for some web page publishers to implement application execution environments to allow users to run applications via the publisher s web site and to entice users to visit the sites. Such application execution environments may comprise stand alone environments with the web page publisher performing page assembly as well as performing back end integration with data storage social information etc.

Reference is made in the following detailed description to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals may designate like parts throughout to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of claimed subject matter. It should also be noted that directions and references for example up down top bottom and so on may be used to facilitate the discussion of the drawings and are not intended to restrict the application of claimed subject matter. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of claimed subject matter defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearance of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The term and or as referred to herein may mean and it may mean or it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

As discussed above it may be desirable for web page publishers to implement application execution environments to allow users to run applications via the publisher s web site and to entice users to visit particular web sites. Such application execution environments may comprise stand alone environments with the web page publisher performing page assembly as well as performing back end integration with data storage social information etc.

However web sites wishing to implement an application execution environment may typically develop their own application platform or may purchase and or license an existing platform. Additionally as alluded to above the web site publisher may perform all of the data storage and or social information storage handling as well as application execution. Also the web page publisher may desire to create a gallery whereby a user may discover and or browse applications. Thus considerable resources may be committed to the creation and or operation of application execution environments making it relatively costly and or difficult for web page publishers to implement such environments. Further the stand alone nature of the application execution environments may make it difficult for the environment developer to share applications and or application execution environments. Additionally due to the proprietary nature of application execution environments applications that are developed to operate in a particular execution environment may not be compatible with other execution environments thus negatively impacting the portability of such applications.

In an example embodiment an application execution environment may be divided among an application platform a web page publisher and a user computing platform. For this example embodiment a code segment may be provided to a web page publisher by an application platform. The code segment may be embedded in a web page generated by the web page publisher and the user computing platform may execute the code segment at least in part in response to loading the web page. Further for this example embodiment a request for information related to one or more web applications may be received by the application platform from the user computing platform. The user computing platform may make the request at least in part in response to executing the code segment. The application platform may provide information related to the one or more web applications to the user computing platform.

In this example embodiment the application platform may provide so called back end services such as data storage application development and or page assembly as well as provide social back end database information for just a few examples of services that may be provided. Thus the web site publisher may be relieved of the burden of directly providing these services and the cost and or overhead of developing and or maintaining the application execution environment may be reduced. Additional embodiments are discussed more fully below.

The Internet comprises a worldwide system of computer networks and is a public self sustaining facility that is accessible to tens of millions of people worldwide. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WVWW or simply referred to as just the web . The web is an Internet service that organizes information through the use of hypermedia. The HyperText Markup Language HTML is typically used to specify the contents and format of a hypermedia document e.g. a web page . The Extensible Markup Language XML may also be used to specify the contents and format of a web page. As used herein a web site may refer to a collection of related web pages. The term web page as used herein may relate to any electronic document that may be accessed via a network such as the Internet. As alluded to above in one or more embodiments web pages for an example embodiment may comprise documents coded using one or more markup languages such as for example HTML and or XML although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

User computing platform for this example embodiment may comprise a processor not shown that may execute instructions including executing instructions related to a web browser . Web browser for this example may comprise a conventional web browser to be executed by user computing platform to allow a user to access and view web pages from across the Internet including pages published by web page publisher . To view a page published by web page publisher browser may cause the page to be downloaded from web page publisher to user computing platform where the page may be displayed to the user. A web page may be identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI such as for example a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with the web page.

For this example embodiment web page publisher may desire to implement an application execution environment on a web page. For example web page publisher may desire to provide a game application for use by one or more users across the Internet in the hopes that the game application may entice users to visit a web site. Application platform may have stored thereon instructions implementing the desired application and may further comprise a code segment associated with the desired application. Application platform may transmit the code segment to web page publisher . For this example the code segment may comprise instructions related to the application which for this example may comprise the game application although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. For an embodiment the code segment may comprise Javascript instructions to implement the application. Javascript is a scripting language that may be embedded in an electronic document such as for example an HTML based document. Although the example embodiments described herein utilize Javascript to implement applications Javascript is merely an example of type of code that may be used to implement an application and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. For example for one or more additional embodiments the code segment may comprise code implemented in PHP such as for example PHP release 5.2.6 although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. PHP is another example of a scripting language that may be embedded into an electronic document such as an HTML document for example although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

For one or more embodiments the code segment may be embedded in one or more web pages by web page publisher . One such web page is labeled page in . Web page may include an area on the page on which one or more applications may be run. The application area may be referred to as a DropZone in one or more embodiments although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Further the code segment may be referred to as a Droplet such as for example Droplet of and may comprise instructions related to the one or more applications as well as instructions that may be utilized to implement the application execution area dropzone on web page . As used herein the term code segment is meant to include one or more instructions used to implement an application execution area in an electronic document such as for example a web page. Also as used herein the terms code segment and Droplet are interchangeable.

User computing platform may via browser request the aforementioned web page with the embedded droplet from web page publisher . At least in part in response to receiving web page browser may execute the embedded code segment. The code segment may include instructions that may direct user computing platform to communicate with application platform for an example embodiment. For example the execution of droplet may direct user computing platform to request information related to the application from application platform . Application platform may at least in part in response to receiving the request provide the information to user computing platform which may in turn utilize the information in the execution of the droplet. The information related to the application may comprise any of a wide range of information types including but not limited to social backend information user profile information assembled pages executable code application configuration information information related to the look and feel of the application etc.

As described above a droplet may be associated with one or more applications. For one embodiment the droplet may direct user computing platform to communicate with application platform in order to implement the one or more applications. Thus web page publisher may provide the one or more applications to user computing platform but does not incur the overhead of providing application services such as data storage transfer and application execution as these services are provided by application platform . For one or more embodiments droplet may comprise relatively few instructions perhaps merely one or a few lines of code in some examples and the bulk of the application processing responsibilities may be performed by application platform . In this manner web page publisher may distribute an application such as the application associated with droplet with relative ease due to the relatively small size of the droplet. Further the small size of the droplet may allow an application developer to widely disseminate the application to a wide range of web page publishers if desired. Web page publishers may be enticed to include the application in their web pages because of the relatively low overhead associated with embedding the code segment and because the heavy lifting of the application execution and or data transfer storage associated with the application is handled by application platform .

For one or more embodiments the one or more applications associated with droplet may be largely executed by application platform with relatively little processing performed by user computing platform . For one example embodiment application platform may receive keystroke and or pointing device information from user computing platform and in response may assemble appropriate pages of javascript code to be executed by browser . Compute intensive operations may be performed by application platform thereby relieving user computing platform of much of the burden of executing the one or more applications for an example embodiment. Browser for this example may receive the assembled pages of javascript code and may run the code using a javascript interpreter coupled with browser . The application may be displayed by browser in the web page s dropzone. Thus the overhead incurred by user computing platform in executing the one or more applications is relatively small. Further because web page publisher is not involved in the transfer of the assembled javascript pages web page publisher does not incur a load other than initially delivering web page including droplet to user computing platform .

For one or more other embodiments user computing platform may be more involved in the execution of the application than was the case in the previous example embodiments. The droplet and its associated one or more applications may be architected in a manner to allocate execution responsibilities in any way that may be advantageous.

Application platform may execute instructions that may implement an application programming interface API as well as a software stack comprising an application layer a batch layer and an assembly layer . Application layer may comprise instructions that if executed direct application platform to generate one or more applications. Any of a wide range of application types may be implemented and any number of applications may be implemented. Examples of application types that may be implemented may include but are not limited to fantasy sports games word processors spreadsheet calculators card games board games financial applications musical composition and notation educational applications language study applications etc. to name but a few. Of course these are merely examples of application types and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects. Also for one or more embodiments the one or more applications to be implemented may be specified by a web page publisher and or by a user discussed more fully below.

For one or more embodiments a gallery application may be provided through the dropzone. The gallery application may allow a user to select one or more additional applications to be displayed in the dropzone. Also web page publisher may specify ranges of applications to be included in the gallery application as discussed more fully below. In this manner a web page publisher may specify one or more applications to be made available to users and users may select one or more of those applications to be displayed in the dropzone.

Batch layer may comprise instructions that if executed may batch together the one or more applications provided by application layer . Assembly layer may comprise instructions that if executed direct application platform to assemble one or more pages of code according to the batched one or more applications for delivery to user computing platform . For this example the pages of code may comprise javascript code although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Further for this example embodiment web page publisher may communicate with application platform by way of API described in more detail below. Communications may take place through droplet for this example embodiment. That is droplet may include code that if executed may communicate provide programming hooks for web page publisher in order for web page publisher to make a variety of requests of application platform .

For one or more embodiments Gallery API may provide the web page publisher with an interface to be able to specify to application platform ranges of applications to be made available to end users. Application platform may provide a gallery of applications within a dropzone that may be browsed by a user and the user may be allowed to select from the gallery one or more applications to be displayed in the dropzone. For one or more embodiments web page publisher may specify lists of applications approved for inclusion in the gallery provided to the user and or may specify lists of applications that are not approved for inclusion. In other words web page publisher may white list one or more applications for inclusion in the gallery provided to the user and or may black list one or more applications that are not to be included in the gallery provided to the user. Web page publisher may specify the ranges of applications to include and or to exclude from the gallery provided to the user in one or more embodiments by specifying ranges of applications based on one or more characteristics of the applications. For example web page publisher may specify that applications developed by a specific entity be included in the gallery or may specify that all available applications related to a particular subject matter by excluded from the gallery. Other characteristics that web page publisher may use to specify ranges of applications to be included in the gallery presented to the user may include but are not limited to application name application developer language user location category application rankings and or any other metadata type that may be associated with an application. Of course the above is merely one example of a technique for allowing a web page publisher to specify applications to be made available to users and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

API may also comprise an analytics API through which web publisher may request various statistics regarding a dropzone. For example web publisher may request information related to the performance of one or more applications as well as information regarding which is the more popular application among a number of applications to name just a couple of examples. Of course other types of information may be made available through the analytics API in one or more embodiments. It should be noted that for one or more embodiments web publisher may access API through droplet and that for one or more embodiments there may be no other paths through which web publisher may access API .

In a further aspect for one or more example embodiments a dropzone may generate discoverable URLs for one or more views of an application wherein the URLs may include the domain of the web site in which the dropzone is embedded. In this manner a view of a particular application accessed through one web page publisher and a view of that particular application accessed through a different web page publisher would have unique URLs. For one or more embodiments as a user navigates from page to page within an application displayed in the dropzone unique URLs may be generated for those pages. In embodiments that do not generate URLs for pages of an application all pages of the application may be identified by a single URL and there would be no way to uniquely identify individual pages of an application. Unique URLs for the various pages of an application may make it easier to allow a user to navigate around an application by using a browser s back and or forward buttons and may allow for the bookmarking of individual pages. Also in one or more embodiments the generation of discoverable URLs may also be used advantageously in advertising and or other monetization operations. Of course these are merely examples of how URLs may be associated with an application and of how such URLs may be utilized and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

For this example embodiment social backend database is stored at web page publisher . Such an arrangement may be advantageous if the web page publisher has social backend information that may be of value if included in an application. For an example consider a web site that maintains friends lists for their users. The web publisher may desire to put those friends lists to work in one or more dropzone applications. To do so for one embodiment the social backend information may be transmitted by web page publisher to application platform in order to allow application platform to incorporate the social backend information in the assembled javascript pages which may be transmitted to user computing platform through droplet . In such an embodiment hooks may be provided in droplet that would allow web page publisher to monitor events as user computing platform and application platform communicate with each other through the droplet so that appropriate backend information may be provided. Of course this is merely one example for how social backend information may be processed and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Other embodiments may employ combinations of the above example configurations for social backend databases. For example embodiments are possible where social information may be provided by any combination of one or more of the web page publisher the application platform and or the third party social information publisher.

First device second device and third device as shown in may be representative of any device appliance or machine that may be configurable to exchange data over network . By way of example but not limitation any of first device second device or third device may include one or more computing devices and or platforms such as e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a workstation a server device or the like one or more personal computing or communication devices or appliances such as e.g. a personal digital assistant mobile communication device or the like a computing system and or associated service provider capability such as e.g. a database or data storage service provider system a network service provider system an Internet or intranet service provider system a portal and or search engine service provider system a wireless communication service provider system and or any combination thereof.

Similarly network as shown in is representative of one or more communication links processes and or resources configurable to support the exchange of data between at least two of first device second device and third device . By way of example but not limitation network may include wireless and or wired communication links telephone or telecommunications systems data buses or channels optical fibers terrestrial or satellite resources local area networks wide area networks intranets the Internet routers or switches and the like or any combination thereof. As illustrated for example by the dashed lined box illustrated as being partially obscured of third device there may be additional like devices operatively coupled to network .

It is recognized that all or part of the various devices and networks shown in system and the processes and methods as further described herein may be implemented using or otherwise include hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

Thus by way of example but not limitation second device may include at least one processing unit that is operatively coupled to a memory through a bus .

Processing unit is representative of one or more circuits configurable to perform at least a portion of a data computing procedure or process. By way of example but not limitation processing unit may include one or more processors controllers microprocessors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits digital signal processors programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays and the like or any combination thereof.

Memory is representative of any data storage mechanism. Memory may include for example a primary memory and or a secondary memory . Primary memory may include for example a random access memory read only memory etc. While illustrated in this example as being separate from processing unit it should be understood that all or part of primary memory may be provided within or otherwise co located coupled with processing unit .

Secondary memory may include for example the same or similar type of memory as primary memory and or one or more data storage devices or systems such as for example a disk drive an optical disc drive a tape drive a solid state memory drive etc. In certain implementations secondary memory may be operatively receptive of or otherwise configurable to couple to a computer readable medium . Computer readable medium may include for example any medium that can carry and or make accessible data code and or instructions for one or more of the devices in system .

Second device may include for example a communication interface that provides for or otherwise supports the operative coupling of second device to at least network . By way of example but not limitation communication interface may include a network interface device or card a modem a router a switch a transceiver and the like.

Second device may include for example an input output . Input output is representative of one or more devices or features that may be configurable to accept or otherwise introduce human and or machine inputs and or one or more devices or features that may be configurable to deliver or otherwise provide for human and or machine outputs. By way of example but not limitation input output device may include an operatively configured display speaker keyboard mouse trackball touch screen data port etc.

Embodiments claimed may include one or more apparatuses for performing the operations herein. These apparatuses may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or they may comprise a general purpose computing platform selectively activated and or reconfigured by a program stored in the device. The processes and or displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing platform and or other apparatus. Various general purpose computing platforms may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized computing platform to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these computing platforms will appear from the description herein.

Embodiments claimed may include algorithms programs and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals within a computer memory capable of performing one or more of the operations described herein. Although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations may include techniques used in the data processing arts to transfer the arrangement of a computing platform such as a computer a computing system an electronic computing device and or other information handling system to operate according to such programs algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations. A program and or process generally may be considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts and or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and or similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings described herein.

Likewise although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. This storage media may have stored thereon instructions that if executed by a computing platform such as a computer a computing system an electronic computing device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant and or other information handling system for example may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with claimed subject matter being executed for example. The terms storage medium and or storage media as referred to herein relate to media capable of maintaining expressions which are perceivable by one or more machines. For example a storage medium may comprise one or more storage devices for storing machine readable instructions and or information. Such storage devices may comprise any one of several media types including but not limited to any type of magnetic storage media optical storage media semiconductor storage media disks floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and or programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memory magnetic and or optical cards and or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and or capable of being coupled to a system bus for a computing platform. However these are merely examples of a storage medium and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

The term instructions as referred to herein relates to expressions which represent one or more logical operations. For example instructions may be machine readable by being interpretable by a machine for executing one or more operations on one or more data objects. However this is merely an example of instructions and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In another example instructions as referred to herein may relate to encoded commands which are executable by a processor having a command set that includes the encoded commands. Such an instruction may be encoded in the form of a machine language understood by the processor. For an embodiment instructions may comprise run time objects such as for example Java and or Javascript and or PHP objects. However these are merely examples of an instruction and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion herein it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating selecting forming enabling inhibiting identifying initiating receiving transmitting determining estimating incorporating adjusting modeling displaying sorting applying varying delivering appending making presenting distorting and or the like refer to the actions and or processes that may be performed by a computing platform such as a computer a computing system an electronic computing device and or other information handling system that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical electronic and or magnetic quantities and or other physical quantities within the computing platform s processors memories registers and or other information storage transmission reception and or display devices. Further unless specifically stated otherwise processes described herein with reference to flow diagrams or otherwise may also be executed and or controlled in whole or in part by such a computing platform.

It should also be understood that although particular embodiments have just been described the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to a particular embodiment or implementation. For example one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices for example whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example. Such software and or firmware may be expressed as machine readable instructions which are executable by a processor. Likewise although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. This storage media such as one or more CD ROMs and or disks for example may have stored thereon instructions that when executed by a system such as a computer system computing platform or other system for example may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with the claimed subject matter being executed such as one of the embodiments previously described for example. As one potential example a computing platform may include one or more processing units or processors one or more input output devices such as a display a keyboard and or a mouse and or one or more memories such as static random access memory dynamic random access memory flash memory and or a hard drive although again the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to this example.

In the preceding description various aspects of claimed subject matter have been described. For purposes of explanation specific numbers systems and or configurations were set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it should be apparent to one skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that claimed subject matter may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features were omitted and or simplified so as not to obscure claimed subject matter. While certain features have been illustrated and or described herein many modifications substitutions changes and or equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and or changes as fall within the true spirit of claimed subject matter.

