---

title: Surfaces resistant to non-specific protein adsorption and methods of producing the same
abstract: A method of preventing non-specific adsorption of proteins onto a surface can include providing a substrate that has a surface on which surface groups are attached. A solution can be applied to the surface that includes a protective reagent having a terminal functional group exhibiting a dipole moment. A monolayer comprising the protective reagent is assembled on the surface by reacting the protective reagent with the surface groups, thereby creating a protected surface. The protective reagent alone is sufficient to confer to the protected surface an increased resistance to adsorption of proteins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08470247&OS=08470247&RS=08470247
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 08470247
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081020
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 981 422 filed Oct. 19 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant CHE0137569 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

Control of the density of surface immobilized ligands or surface binding sites is an important issue for the manipulation of surface properties and the development of sensors array or chip based assays and single molecule detection methods. The density and chemical identity of surface immobilized ligands can be used to control the wettability of surfaces the selective adsorption of biological molecules and the attachment and growth of cells on artificial surfaces. The signal level and response sensitivity that one observes from waveguide interfacial fluorescence or SPR based sensors depends directly on controlling the density of reactive binding sites on the surface. For cooperative or multivalent binding of biological molecules to surface tethered ligands the density of ligands on the surface can significantly influence binding equilibria and energetics.

The control of ligand density on surfaces has been addressed in a number of ways. To produce gradients in ligand density on surfaces one can generate a diffusion gradient of silane reagent in solution so that the target glass surface is exposed to a varying concentration of reagent leading to a gradient in the density of bound silane ligands. This same approach can be implemented for generating gradients of organothiol ligands on metal surfaces. One clever method of producing a similar ligand density gradient on thin gold films involved the reductive desorption of thiol bound ligands by applying an in plane potential gradient across the film. Control of surface ligand densities and the preparation of density gradients can also be achieved by contact printing techniques by varying the concentration of ligand on the stamp or the contact time between the stamp and the surface. When characterizing the reactivity of isolated ligands on surfaces at the single molecule level it is important that the ligand spacing on the surface be controlled so that the response can be controlled. Widely spaced ligands correspond to very small 

It has been recognized by the inventors that with low surface concentrations of immobilized ligands it is important that non specific binding to the vast unlabeled areas of the surface be minimized. Therefore the present invention provides a platform for microscale analysis in which non specific adsorption of proteins is reduced. A method of preventing non specific adsorption of proteins onto a surface can include providing a substrate that has a surface on which surface groups are attached. A solution can be applied to the surface where the solution includes a protective reagent having a terminal functional group exhibiting a dipole moment. A monolayer including the protective reagent can be assembled on the surface by reacting the protective reagent with the surface groups thereby creating a protected surface. The protective reagent alone is sufficient to confer to the protected surface an increased resistance to adsorption of proteins. The terminal functional group of the protective reagent may be a nitrile group or in a specific embodiment a cyano group although other groups can also be suitable.

The method of the present invention confers resistance to nonspecific protein adsorption so that a protein applied to the protected surface binds to less than about 1 10of the total area of the protected surface. In a specific embodiment the protective reagent can be used as a dilution carrier for a protein binding reagent.

The present invention also provides a microanalysis platform which includes a substrate having a surface to which surface groups are attached. The platform can also include a monolayer comprising a protective reagent covering an area of the surface so that the area covered is a protected surface. The protective reagent is bound to the surface groups and the protective reagent can also have a terminal functional group exhibiting a dipole moment. The protective reagent alone is sufficient to confer to the protected surface an increased resistance to adsorption of proteins. The microanalysis platform can optionally further comprise a protein binding reagent at small fractions and being relatively uniformly dispersed across the protected surface.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention so that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and so that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. Other features of the present invention will become clearer from the following detailed description of the invention taken with the accompanying drawings and claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention.

The following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention makes reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that various changes to the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is presented for purposes of illustration only and not limitation to describe the features and characteristics of the present invention to set forth the best mode of operation of the invention and to sufficiently enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims.

The following detailed description and exemplary embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the accompanying drawings wherein the elements and features of the invention are designated by numerals throughout.

The singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a ligand includes reference to one or more of such materials and reference to reacting refers to one or more such steps.

As used herein with respect to an identified property or circumstance substantially refers to a degree of deviation that is sufficiently small so as to not measurably detract from the identified property or circumstance. The exact degree of deviation allowable may in some cases depend on the specific context.

As used herein the term protected surface refers to a surface that has been treated or modified in a way so as to render the surface highly resistant to adsorption of proteins onto the area protected. The protected surface may be interspersed with areas of surface that are not protected i.e. a protected surface with selectively unprotected areas. In such a case protein adsorption is dominantly restricted to the unprotected areas.

Accordingly a protective reagent as described herein is an agent that when applied to a surface in accordance with the present invention renders a surface a protected surface. The unprotected areas may be functionalized with agent s that allow or facilitate adsorption and binding of specific proteins. As used herein the term protein binding reagent refers to such agents. When used in combination such as when a solution containing both is applied to a surface the areas covered by protein binding reagent will allow binding of specific proteins and the areas covered by protective reagent will be resistant to binding. A desired protein binding density can therefore be achieved by choosing the appropriate proportions of protein binding reagent and protective agent.

The term self assembled when used herein to describe a layer of atoms molecules macromolecules or similar structures applied to a surface refers to the layer being generated by chemical and physical interactions between the constituent structures where said interactions are a function of the properties of the structures and of the surface. In particular self assembled monolayers are layers that are one molecule deep and are created by simply applying a plurality of the molecules to a surface rather than being created by depositing molecules one by one.

As used herein the term non specific protein binding refers to binding of proteins to a surface where the ability to do so is not highly dependent on the identity of the protein. More particularly in a location where binding of a specific class of proteins is expected desired or specifically designed for binding outside that location or by proteins outside of that class may be considered to be non specific.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a numerical range of about 1 to about 4.5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of 1 to about 4.5 but also to include individual numerals such as 2 3 4 and sub ranges such as 1 to 3 2 to 4 etc. The same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value such as less than about 4.5 which should be interpreted to include all of the above recited values and ranges. Further such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristic being described.

In the present disclosure the term preferably or preferred is non exclusive where it is intended to mean preferably but not limited to. Any steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims. Means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited and b a corresponding function is expressly recited. The structure material or acts that support the means plus function are expressly recited in the description herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the descriptions and examples given herein.

A method of preventing non specific adsorption of proteins onto a surface can include providing a substrate that has a surface on which surface groups are attached. A solution can be applied to the surface where the solution includes a protective reagent having a terminal functional group exhibiting a dipole moment. A monolayer including the protective reagent can be assembled on the surface by reacting the protective reagent with the surface groups thereby creating a protected surface. The protective reagent alone is sufficient to confer to the protected surface an increased resistance to adsorption of proteins.

The substrate utilized can be any suitable material which can support a monolayer and which is or can be functionalized to include surface groups. Suitable surface groups allow reaction with the protective reagent and or protein binding reagent. Although a wide variety of materials can be suitable non limiting examples of substrate materials can include glass quartz silicon polymers such as PDMS metals such as gold silver copper and the like minerals and combinations or composites of these materials. In one specific embodiment glass can be used as the substrate. In this case the surface groups are hydroxyl groups. Depending on the corresponding protective and or protein binding reagents suitable reactive surface groups can include metal oxides polymer side chains bare metal surfaces and combinations thereof. Other substrates can be functionalized to provide suitable surface groups using known techniques such as but not limited to chemical functionalization plasma functionalization grafting etching bonding with native oxide layers metal vapor deposition or the like.

The protective reagent itself may be an organosilane or more particularly an alkoxysilane. Other classes of reagents would be suitable including halosilanes chlorosilanes epoxy silanes silyl hydrides alkyl thiols and alkyl disulfides. Suitable molecules can have a surface reactive group and a dipole terminal group. The surface reactive group could be polymerizable to add stability to the protective reagent layer. The terminal functional group of the protective reagent may be a nitrile group or in a specific embodiment a cyano group although other groups can also be suitable including alcohol ethylene oxide polyethylene oxide carboxylic acid phospholipid ketone and aldehyde and nitro groups. In a particular embodiment the dipole moment of the terminal functional group is from about 2 to about 10 Debye. In a specific embodiment the protective reagent is 2 cyano ethyl triethoxysilane. Other suitable protective agents can be prepared from combinations of the surface reactive groups and dipole terminal groups listed above.

The method of the present invention confers resistance to nonspecific protein adsorption so that a protein applied to the protected surface binds to less than about 1 10of the total area of the protected surface. In order to achieve at least some selective binding of specific proteins a suitable protein binding reagent can be included with the protective reagent which is then incorporated into the monolayer. The protein binding reagent can be present over a range of composition in the protective reagent from as little as 1 10to as great as 50 . In a specific embodiment the protective reagent can be used as a dilution carrier for a protein binding reagent. By selectively adjusting the relative concentrations of protective reagent and protein binding reagent the degree of protein binding can be controlled. More specifically a solution of the protective reagent and protein binding reagent can be formed and then reacted with the surface groups to form the monolayer. In a more specific embodiment the protective reagent and the protein binding reagent are present in the solution at a ratio of from about 1.5 10 1 to about 6.0 10 1. Although not required each of the protective reagent and the protein binding reagent can be of the same class of compounds or same core compound with differing terminal groups. In a particular aspect of the invention the protein binding reagent is a silane. In a still more particular aspect the protein binding reagent is an amine terminated silane. In another aspect the protein binding reagent is an alkoxysilane. In a specific embodiment the protein binding reagent is 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane. Suitable protein binding groups can be linked to suitable surface reactive groups including halosilanes chlorosilanes epoxy silanes silyl hydrides alkyl thiols and alkyl disulfides. Other suitable protein binding groups include thiol succinimidyl ester maleimide histidine and combinations thereof.

Once the highly selective and low density protein binding surface is formed various devices and or methods can be used to take advantage as previously discussed. In one example the present invention provides a microanalysis platform. Such a microanalysis platform can include a substrate having a surface to which surface groups are attached and a monolayer comprising a protective group covering an area of the surface so that the area covered is a protected surface. The protective group is bound to the surface groups and the protective group also has a terminal functional group exhibiting a dipole moment sufficient to substantially prevent or reduce protein binding thereto. The protective reagent alone is sufficient to confer to the protected surface an increased resistance to adsorption of proteins. The microanalysis platform of the present invention resists nonspecific protein adsorption. In a particular embodiment the microanalysis platform further comprises a protein binding reagent as previously outlined. Although specific binding densities can be varied by adjusting relative concentrations of protein binding reagent and protective reagent the protective reagent and the protein binding reagent can be present at a ratio of from about 1 10 1 to about 2 1. In another specific embodiment the protein binding reagent constitutes a less than 1 10fraction of the monolayer.

The following example represents one illustration of application and characterization of an embodiment of the present invention. Variations including different materials and specific methodology can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention while still falling within the appended claims.

The approach taken in accordance with the present invention to immobilize ligands or binding sites at very low densities on a surface is to incorporate reactive sites at low concentrations within a cross linked monolayer self assembled onto glass. Self assembled silane monolayers have wide application in materials science separations and analysis due to their versatility in modifying surfaces to produce stable and uniform films with a variety of interfacial properties. From the earliest studies of self assembled organosilane monolayers there has been a need for the production of mixed monolayers to control wetting and adsorption behavior.

An object of the present invention is to use mixed silanes to generate binding sites with very wide spacing on the surface. The general idea is to incorporate a target silane reagent having a reactive group to provide a binding site for a ligand at very low concentrations into the self assembled and cross linked film composed primarily of an inert silane that is compatible with the solution interface and reactions of the immobilized ligand. Specifically very dilute amine sites can be incorporated into a nitrile terminated alkylsilane where the dipolar character of the nitrile group is compatible with aqueous solution but otherwise inert to reactions with the amine binding sites or immobilized ligands.

In one embodiment of the present invention mixed silane monolayers are self assembled onto glass from solutions containing very low concentrations of 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane APTES and much higher concentrations of 2 cyanoethyl triethoxysilane CETES . Alkoxysilane reagents may be used for this invention because they are compatible with a terminal amine group and are less susceptible than chlorosilanes to polymerization due to traces of water in solution. The densities of aminesilane groups may be characterized using epifluorescence imaging of individual dye molecules covalently attached to the surface amine groups. The surfaces can be also characterized by bright field plasmon resonance imaging of streptavidin conjugated 10 nm gold colloids bound to biotin molecules immobilized on the amine binding sites. The density of the immobilized biotin molecules can also be assessed using total internal reflection fluorescence TIRF imaging of fluorescently labeled neutravidin. All three of these methods give consistent amine coverage results and indicate that quantitative control of binding site densities can be achieved at very low 

Spectrophotometric grade solvents toluene methanol n heptane and N N dimethylformamide DMF were obtained from Fisher Scientific Hampton N.H. . Toluene and n heptane were dried over sodium for 24 h and filtered through a Millipore VWR West Chester Pa. PTFE 0.2 m filter prior to use methanol and DMF were used as received. Both 5 and 6 carboxytetramethylrhodamine succinimidyl ester TMR SE and 6 6 biotinoyl bis aminohexanoyl succinimidyl ester biotin xx SE were purchased from Biotium inc. Hayward Calif. and were used as received. Tetramethylrhodamine labeled neutravidin and 5 and 6 carboxy Alexafluor 514 succinimidyl ester Alexa SE were purchased from Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . CETES and APTES were acquired from Gelest Morrisville Pa. . Streptavidin conjugated gold colloid particles having a mean diameter of 9.7 nm a particle density of 1.7 10particles mL and an average of 20 streptavidin gold colloid were acquired from Ted Pella Redding Calif. . Coverslips No. 1 22 22 mm were purchased from VWR West Chester Pa. .

Surface preparation began with cleaning of the glass coverslips to remove contamination. Cleaning of coverslip surfaces was accomplished by rinsing the slides with methanol allowing them to dry and then placing them in a UV ozone cleaner Jelight Co. model 342 for 25 min on each side. Slides were checked using water contact angle measurements to determine cleanliness a contact angle of 

Fresh stock solutions of 1 M CETES and 1 nM APTES were prepared in dry toluene small aliquots of these solutions were diluted into dry n heptane producing reaction solutions consisting of 2 mM CETES and the desired concentration 0.04 0.105 nM of APTES. Cleaned coverslips were placed in the reagent solutions and allowed to react for a period of 2 h after which they were rinsed 4 times each with toluene and methanol. Surface modified coverslips were annealed in a 120 C. oven for 30 min to promote reaction with the surface and cross linking of the silanes as illustrated in . Coverslips were then stored under methanol for up to one week until used.

Reaction with amine reactive sites was accomplished through the use of succinimidyl ester binding chemistry where the labeling reagent will react with surface amines to form a peptide bond to the surface. Succinimidyl ester binding in phosphate buffer pH 9.3 to a primary amine linker for a cyanine dye has been shown to be complete 87 isolated yield. The succinimidyl ester reagent is susceptible to rapid hydrolysis in aqueous solution with a half life of 10 min at pH 8.6 and 4 C. To produce higher yields for a binding reaction one can avoid hydrolysis of the succinimidyl ester reagent by carrying out the reaction in an organic solvent such as DMF or DMSO allowing the effective reaction time to be increased. Based on this strategy a stock solution of 3 mg of TMR SE in 5 mL of DMF was prepared and kept at 20 C. until use. An aliquot of the TMR SE stock solution was diluted 1 125 in DMF 7.5 M and the amine modified surfaces were reacted in this solution for 1 h and then rinsed twice in DMF and four times in methanol for 20 min each. The derivatized coverslips were stored in methanol in the dark prior to their examination by fluorescence microscopy. Reaction of amine modified slides with Alexa SE was carried out under identical conditions.

Surface amine sites were also tagged with a biotin label in order to test the binding site density using streptavidin conjugated gold colloid and fluorescently labeled neutravidin. A succinimidyl ester reaction with the surface amine groups was again employed in this case using biotin xx SE at 7.5 M in DMF reacted for 1 h followed by rinsing twice in DMF and four times in methanol for 20 min each. Once excess biotin xx reagent was removed the biotinylated coverslips could be reacted with streptavidin conjugated gold particles or fluorescently labeled neutravidin. For the gold labeling of the biotin sites slides were submerged in a glass petri dish containing streptavidin conjugated gold colloids at a concentration of 2.1 10particles mL suspended in 20 mM phosphate buffer saline pH 7.5 ionic strength of 100 mM with sodium chloride . Coverslips were allowed to react for a period of 24 h rinsed with buffer and methanol and allowed to dry prior to imaging. For fluorescence labeling of the biotin sites biotinylated coverslips were introduced into a microscopy flow cell and illuminated with 528.7 nm laser radiation on the TIRF microscope for 20 min to photobleach any fluorescence spots from the glass substrate. The substrate was then reacted with a 6.7 pM TMR labeled neutravidin in 20 mM phosphate buffer saline for 50 min in the flow cell after which the surface was rinsed with multiple flow cell volumes of phosphate buffer and immediately imaged using TIRF microscopy.

Fluorescence imaging of surface immobilized tetramethylrhodamine and Alexa 514 dye molecules was performed using epifluorescence microscopy. Imaging was done with a fluorescence microscope to which several modifications and improvements were made. Briefly the 514.5 nm line from an argon ion laser Spectra Physics was used as the excitation source and was passed through a Pellin Broca prism and an aperture to remove plasma lines. The beam was shuttered by an acousto optic deflector AOM Crystal Technology to control sample illumination. The switched beam was passed through a quarter wave plate to transform the linearly polarized light into circular polarized light so that excitation of molecules that were attached to surfaces were independent of their orientation. The beam was then passed on a roughened glass disk to create an incoherent spot source for excitation the disk was rotated at several hundred rotations per minute in order to average out the speckle pattern on the time scale of the experiment. The spot on the glass disk was then reimaged with a 55 mm focal length f 1.2 camera lens Canon into the back of the microscope Nikon . The beam was then passed through a Chroma 514.5 nm band pass filter 10 nm bandwidth reflected off of a 545 nm dichroic beam splitter and directed into a Nikon plan fluor 100 1.3 NA oil immersion objective. The beam overfilled the collection cone of the objective creating a nearly uniform intensity profile over the observation area the laser power coupled into the objective 17 mW. Fluorescence emission was collected back through the same objective transmitted by the 545 nm dichroic beam splitter through a 530 nm long pass filter and imaged on a Photometrics CoolSNAP12 bit CCD camera with a low bandwidth sensitivity of 3.4 photoelectrons bit. MetaMorph Universal Imaging software was used to control the camera collect images 1 s integration times and analyze the image data. The length scales for all microscopy experiments were calibrated with a USA 1951 standard resolution test target Newport .

Imaging of surface attached streptavidin conjugated gold colloid particles was accomplished using an Olympus IX71 inverted microscope. The samples were imaged in bright field using a 0.30 NA overhead illuminator light transmitted by the sample was collected through an Olympus plan apo 60 1.45 NA oil immersion objective passed through a dichroic beam splitter and bandpass emission filter Chroma Z514RDC and HQ560 50 respectively and imaged on a Photometrics CoolSNAPCCD camera. MetaMorph Imaging software was again used to collect and analyze the bright field images acquired in 10 ms integrations. Surface bound neutravidin were also imaged using the same Olympus inverted microscope operated in TIRF mode. Excitation of the sample was achieved using an argon ion laser Coherent model Innova 300 operated at 528.7 nm and coupled into the microscope using a single mode optical fiber. Total internal reflection was achieved by translating the fiber vertically which in turn moved the position of the incoming laser beam 25 mW to the edge of the objective until internal reflection was observed at the interface between the coverslip surface and the buffer solution. TIRF images were acquired with 200 ms integration times.

Reactive amine functional groups were immobilized at very low surface densities on glass by self assembly of mixed silane monolayers from solutions containing very low concentrations of APTES and much higher concentrations of CETES. In the surface derivatization chemistry of this embodiment self assembly from dry n heptane solution promotes adsorption from solution of the reactants onto the glass surface. The surfaces were rinsed in toluene and methanol to eliminate excess silane reagent following which they were heated to 120 C. for 30 min to promote condensation reactions with the surface and cross linking of monolayer film. The concentrations of APTES 0.04 0.105 nM to CETES 2 mM corresponded to a concentration ratio of 2 10 5.25 10. If the amine bindng site concentrations in the monolayer corresponded directly to these dilution factors then one would expect the amine sites to be spaced between 2.1 and 3.4 m based on molecular density of self assembled and cross linked alkylsiloxane monolayers of 0.23 0.02 nm silane determined by infrared absorption and X ray reflection measurements. The expected distances between highly diluted amine binding sites therefore could be easily resolved within the diffraction limits of optical microscopy.

To measure the surface density of aminopropylsilane molecules immobilized in the cyanoethylsilane monolayer the amine groups were reacted with TMR SE in DMF for 60 min according to the reaction scheme shown in . The reacted slides were rinsed in DMF and methanol and then imaged by epifluorescence microscopy which was previously shown to yield reliable 96 detection of rhodamine 6G molecules adsorbed to glass surfaces. The threshold for counting single molecule spots was determined from the background intensity and noise level for a sample where no TMR molecules were immobilized which produced an equivalent background as regions between bright spots on TMR labeled surfaces. This background level was 18 17 photoelectrons while the pixel to pixel variation in background counts had a standard deviation 12 photoelectrons which is 3 times greater than the photoelectron shot noise. The threshold for counting molecules was set conservatively at Lc 85 photoelectrons which is 5.7 times above making the probability of false positive counts arising from the variation in the dark background negligible 

Setting the threshold Lc at 85 photoelectrons one can plot the positions of the fluorescence spots on the surface that exceed this level. The locations of the molecular spots appear at first glance to exhibit patterns of molecules bound in curved lines with large open areas between them. While one might be tempted to attribute these patterns to inhomogeneities in the binding of amine terminated silanes in the self assembled monolayer they are actually characteristic of a random distribution in two dimensions. Other examples of 2 D random distributions show very similar patterns where a random distribution clearly does not lead to a uniform spacing of bound molecules.

To determine the surface concentration of amine bound tetramethylrhodamine molecules on the surface the number of spots above threshold were counted in five different areas on three separate coverslips for each amine concentration. This operation was carried out for four concentrations of aminopropylsilane in the cyanoethylsilane monolayer including blank where no APTES was present in the self assembly step. The blank slides generated an average background spot density of 0.033 0.006 spots m apparently due to luminescent impurity sites in the glass coverslips fresh from the UVO cleaning exhibit the same background spot density without a CETES monolayer or exposure to TMR SE. In addition to the tetramethylrhodamine labeling of amine sites these sites were also labeled with 5 and 6 carboxy Alexafluor 514 succinimidyl ester. This probe carries a double negative charge from two sulfonate groups so that it is more water soluble and less prone to nonspecific adsorption to glass than tetramethylrhodamine. The Alexa 514 label produces somewhat weaker fluorescence than tetramethylrhodamine in single molecule imaging experiments 170 photoelectrons and therefore a lower threshold Lc 41 photoelectrons was used to read out the single molecule spots. The lower threshold increased the probability of false positive counts from the background Lc is 2.9 times above in this case making the probability of false positive counts 2 10 pixel. To reduce the potential impact of false positives on the spot count an additional criterion was applied where at least three connected pixels must be above the threshold for the spot to be counted this criterion lowers the false positive probability from background fluctuations to a negligible level. Alexa 514 labeling results at two concentrations of APTES closely match the molecular spot counts determined from tetramethylrhodamine labeling. Both results show a consistent linear dependence of the surface density of labeled amine sites on the concentration of APTES in the self assembled monolayer.

While the single molecule labeling of amines with two different fluorescent probes gave consistent spot densities that varied linearly with the APTES concentration the single molecule fluorescence measurement is also sensitive to the population of background spots from the glass substrate the number of which is comparable to the amine site densities produced at the lowest concentrations of APTES. It is important to confirm the reactive amine site density by a technique that is insensitive to luminescent impurity spots. To that end the surface site density was characterized in a series of APTES concentration dependent experiments where biotin was immobilized to the amine sites and then biotin streptavidin binding was used to capture streptavidin conjugated gold particles to the surface site. Surface amine sites were tagged with biotin using a condensation reaction to immobilize biotin xx SE to the aminopropylsilane sites on the surface as illustrated in . The excess biotin xx SE reagent was removed and the biotinylated coverslips were reacted with streptavidin conjugated gold 10 nm diameter and imaged under bright field illumination this gold colloid labeling and imaging approach has been used previously to observe and track the motions of single protein molecules in cells and membranes.

To increase the contrast for detecting the absorption and scattering by the gold particles a bandpass filter restricts the wavelength of the transmitted radiation to 530 580 nm. This range overlaps with the plasmon resonance extinction of the streptavidin conjugated gold particles which peaks at 535 nm and drops to only half intensity by 580 nm. The diameter of these dark spots is larger than the diffraction limited size of single molecules imaged in fluorescence the poorer spatial resolution is not due to the gold particles being out of focus but is rather due to the limited numerical aperture 0.3 NA of the bright field illuminator. The predicted diffraction limited diameter for 0.3 NA illumination is 1.3 m which is slightly larger than the size of the Airy disk pattern produced in the bright field image probably due to particle scattering at higher angles than the incident radiation. These spots exhibit a readily detected change in intensity relative to the bright background and provide a reliable area to threshold and count the gold particles bound to the glass surface. The threshold for counting the gold particle spots was determined from the average level 230 photoelectrons and variation 18 photoelectrons of the bright background. The threshold for counting a negative going spot was set at Lc 165 65 photoelectrons or 3.6 times below the bright background so that the probability of false positive results is small 2 10 to reduce the likelihood of false positives again an additional criterion was applied where at least three connected pixels must be below the threshold for the spot to be counted. The intensity at the center of the dark spots decreases to 118 photoelectrons on average with a standard deviation of 14 photoelectrons so that Lc 165 is 3 4 standard deviations above the average dark spot making the probability of missing a spot 3 10.

Application of this threshold to the data produces a plot of the locations of the gold particles on the slide that shows a similar random pattern of spots as observed with single molecule fluorescence imaging. The spot densities based on counting streptavidin labeled gold particles are included with the single molecule fluorescence counting results in . In this case no background spot count was subtracted from the measured spot densities based on a control experiment where a cyanoethylsilane surface was prepared without amine binding sites and allowed to react with streptavidin conjugated gold colloid. After rinsing this surface exhibited no detectable spots below the bright field background threshold. The measured spot densities from streptavidin labeled gold particles closely follow the single molecule fluorescence results and confirm the reactive amine site densities by a technique that is insensitive to luminescent impurity spots.

Several possible explanations could be offered for a smaller relative concentration of labeled sites on the surface compared to the ratio of silane reagents in solution. First there could be molecules missed in the counting of labeled sites due to overlap between single molecule fluorescence or single particle extinction spots. With a diffraction limited spot size of 320 nm for single molecule fluorescent spots and a maximum spot density of 0.14 m the probability of spot overlap is less than 1.4 based on a Poisson statistical model so that an apparent 50 discrepancy is not due to this phenomenon. There is a possibility that the succinimidyl ester reaction that binds labels to the amine sites was incomplete. This reaction is reported to be complete 87 isolated product yield even under conditions less favorable than those employed in this study. Furthermore the yield was consistent among the binding of three different succinimidyl ester probes to the surface. We are left with the conclusion that the densities of surface amine groups reported by these experiments are correct and that the cyano terminated silane exhibits preferential self assembly to the glass surface. A higher concentration of bound cyano groups would be expected if the free energy of the self assembled monolayer were raised slightly by substituting an amine terminated silane for a cyano terminated silane. This free energy cost could derive from the disruption of strong dipole dipole head to tail interactions between adjacent C N groups on the surface which would dominate the monolayer structure at the high surface coverage of cyanoethylsilane.

An important application of chemically modified surfaces with controlled and widely spaced binding sites would be for immobilizing and studying individual biological molecules. The possibility of using these surfaces for such applications was tested using biotin avidin binding which is commonly employed to immobilize antibodies enzymes liposomes and even biological cells to surfaces. Neutravidin a deglycosylated form of avidin was chosen for this study because it exhibits lower nonspecific adsorption to surfaces than avidin while retaining a high affinity for biotin. Biotinylated coverslips were prepared by immobilizing biotin xx SE to aminopropylsilane sites on the glass surface as above. The biotinylated coverslips were assembled into the microscopy flow cell and then illuminated with 528.7 nm laser radiation on the TIRF microscope for 20 min to photobleach any fluorescence spots from the glass substrate. The biotinylated coverslips were then exposed to a 6.7 pM solution of TMR labeled neutravidin in phosphate buffer in a microscopy flow cell for 50 min after which the surface was rinsed with multiple flow cell volumes of buffer and imaged immediately using TIRF microscopy.

Multiple fluorescent labels per probe molecule 2.3 neutravidin lead to brighter spots but also increase the relative spot to spot variation in the peak intensity 102 photoelectrons due to differences in the number of labels per probe molecule. A threshold for counting bound molecules was determined using data from a blank slide which produced a background 16 photoelectrons with standard deviation 10 photoelectrons comparable to the values observed on the epifluorescence microscope. The threshold Lc was set at 85 photoelectrons or 7 times above the background which leads to a negligible probability of false positives from the fluctuations in the dark background. Because of the pre exposure of the substrate to laser radiation and photobleaching of impurity spots in the glass a zero background from the substrate was indeed achieved in this case after the photobleaching step and prior to exposure to labeled neutravidin the substrates exhibited no detectable spots.

False positives could also arise from nonspecific binding of neutravidin to the cyanoethylsilane surface this possibility was tested by allowing the labeled neutravidin to interact with a CETES derivatized surface with no immobilized biotin. This surface was allowed to interact with neutravidin under identical conditions and was rinsed with buffer prior to imaging. This experiment produced no spots above threshold indicating that nonspecific adsorption of neutravidin to the CETES derivatized surface yields no false positive counts. The surface density of bound neutravidin was determined from this experiment for two different slides prepared with 0.04 nM APTES in the original self assembled monolayer synthesis yielded an average of 0.050 0.003 biotin molecules m. This point is included in the plot of the site density versus APTES concentration and agrees well with predicted site densities.

One aspect of this invention is to control the binding site density of reactive ligands on surfaces by diluting surface amine groups in self assembled and cross linked monolayers composed principally 99.99999 of cyanoethylsilane on glass. The cyanoethylsilane surface is strongly dipolar compatible with aqueous solution and it shows little nonspecific binding of a water soluble protein neutravidin from aqueous solutions. Furthermore surface modification with cyanoethylsilanes does not rely on the adsorption of secondary proteins or the use of polymers to block non specific adsorption sites. Blocking proteins and polymers can block or cover up specific binding sites that have been immobilized to the glass substrate. The combination of dipolarity without hydrogen bonding interactions of the terminal cyano group seems to be uniquely suited to avoiding protein adsorption to these surfaces.

The treated surfaces are likely most repellant for water soluble plasma proteins. The surface is less repellant to membrane bound proteins as discussed above. Further testing of the range of protein structures that would be repelled from a cyano terminated surface would be useful. The long term stability of protein repellency would depend on the rate of hydrolysis of the siloxane bonds used to bind and cross link the coating to the surface. This chemistry is used produce chromatographic stationary phases which are stable in aqueous solutions a near neutral pH for periods as long as a year. Using longer alkyl chains to support the terminal cyano group may reduce the exposure of the siloxane region of the molecule to water and make the coating even more stable.

The extreme dilution of amine binding sites allows them to be spaced over micrometer distances that can be resolved by optical microscopy. The surface amine sites are suitable for attaching labels and ligands by reaction with succinimidyl ester reagents. Labeling the amine sites with fluorescent molecules and imaging the surface provided a means of determining the density of amine sites on the surface and their dependence on the concentration of the amine reagent APTES in the original self assembled monolayer synthesis. Amine sites were incorporated into the self assembled monolayer in proportion to the concentration of APTES in the synthesis but the mole ratio of aminopropylsilane to cyanoethylsilane in the monolayer was about half the ratio in the synthesis indicating that the cyanoethylsilane forms a more stable monolayer perhaps through head to tail dipole dipole interactions between adjacent nitrile groups.

Using single molecule counting to determine the surface density of amine sites on the surface suffers from a background of luminescent spots from the glass substrate. Two different methods were employed to confirm the number of amine sites independent of the substrate background. Both approaches involved the binding of biotin to the surface amine sites using 6 6 biotinoyl bis aminohexanoyl succinimidyl ester. The immobilized biotin was then labeled with streptavidin conjugated gold colloid particles followed by imaging of the plasmon resonance absorption with bright field illumination. A second approach to counting immobilized biotin molecules was to react them in a microscopy flow cell with fluorescently labeled neutravidin and image them with TIRF microscopy where the background of the substrate could be photobleached with laser excitation prior to the labeling step. Both of these approaches produced no detectable background spots and furthermore the quantitative spot densities agreed with the single molecule counting results corrected for substrate background. The results of all three imaging methods give consistent amine and biotin site coverages indicating that quantitative control of binding site densities and their chemical transformation can be achieved at very low 

As partially discussed above to examine the protein repellency of the modified surfaces two proteins were tested tetramethylrhodamine labeled neutravidin and tetramethylrhodamine labeled alpha hemolysin. The surface density of non specifically adsorbed protein was determined using total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy and single molecule counting. The technique is capable of quantifying non specific adsorption at an extremely low level corresponding to surface coverages less than 10of a monolayer.

It was found that neutravidin from a 13 pM solution exhibits non specific adsorption to the cyano modified surface below the 10monolayer level demonstrating the protein repellency of the cyano surface. Adsorption of labeled alpha hemolysin a membrane active protein was examined on a bare glass and cyano modified surfaces. Using single molecule counting it was found that this membrane active protein exhibited a ten fold reduction in the non specific adsorption to the cyano modified surface as compared to bare glass.

Surface coatings in accordance with the present invention can be useful in the development of biosensors which require selective binding of target proteins from a sample to immobilized ligands on a biosensor surface with minimal non specific interactions with the surface which would give rise to a false positive response. Due to the reduction in protein adsorption these surfaces can also repel the growth of bacteria or cells so that they provide a surface treatment for medical implant applications. The coating may also be useful in protein separation applications where strong non specific adsorption can lead to poor separations.

The foregoing detailed description describes the invention with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. However it will be appreciated that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims. The detailed description and accompanying drawings are to be regarded as merely illustrative rather than as restrictive and all such modifications or changes if any are intended to fall within the scope of the present invention as described and set forth herein.

