---

title: Biaxial stress, sheer, permeability, and peel test method and machine to conduct the same
abstract: The subject invention relates to an apparatus and process for testing various parameters and properties of high strength flexible, fabric laminates. In particular, the apparatus comprises a machine using individually controlled loads to test various material parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08061214&OS=08061214&RS=08061214
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08061214
owner_city: Akron
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080508
---
The government may have a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. HQ0006 06 C 0001 awarded by the Missile Defense Agency Department of Defense.

The present invention relates to a process and apparatus for testing flexible fabric laminate materials. More specifically the invention relates to a process and apparatus to test flexible fabric laminate materials under various conditions of stress.

Plain woven fabrics are widely utilized as structural materials for many applications including inflated structures fabric roofing and large canopies among others. In these capacities the materials are primarily affected by variations in weather i.e. temperature changes precipitation and wind though stress due to weight and pressure is also a concern. Therefore while such structures are designed to be lightweight and pliable they must also exhibit superior strength and durability.

These materials may also find application in lighter than air vehicles such as aerostats balloons and airships including blimps and dirigibles which are used in many different applications such as near large sporting entertainment or cultural events or in large metropolitan areas to provide advertising or to provide high level coverage of the events. Lighter than air vehicles are also used in high altitude applications for the purpose of weather monitoring and or military surveillance. In such instances the higher a vehicle can operate translates into an increased amount of area that can be viewed for surveillance purposes and or weather monitoring. Additionally lighter than air vehicles that possess the ability to operate at altitudes above 50 000 feet are not a hazard to commercial air traffic are more difficult to detect and or destroy can be used for the surveillance of wide areas and thus can provide a strategic and or economic as well as providing a means to relay communications.

Of particular interest herein are structural materials for use as the hull material in lighter than air vehicles though the apparatus and method of using the same disclosed herein will find application in testing materials for any of the foregoing uses. For example typical high altitude lighter than air vehicles are made from flexible fabric laminates including lightweight materials that withstand a wide range of temperature variation and daily expansion and contraction due to such temperature variations ozone degradation and exposure to ultraviolet light. Materials employed for more conventional uses may experience these same conditions though generally to a lesser extreme.

Many uses of these materials result in localized stresses in addition to overall stress and strain. For example if the material bears logo or identification lettering as in the case of advertising balloons or dirigibles the logo or lettering may generate localized heat accumulation. Other potential localized stress areas are seams where panels of flexible fabric laminate are joined together using structural seam tape to form larger structures. The area along the edge of the seams is subject to greater stress due to the transition in stiffness of the fabric laminate to the seam area resulting in increased potential for material failure.

In light of the environmental extremes and other stresses experienced by materials used for any of the foregoing applications and particularly those experienced by materials used for lighter than air vehicle application the materials of choice for such applications are typically high strength materials. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 074 722 to Cuccias teaches a fabric laminate made of a layer of polyurethane resin used to bond layers of high strength liquid crystal thermotropic melt spun polyester VECTRAN aromatic polyaramide KEVLAR or polyester DACRON fiber woven yarn to a polyvinyl fluoride TEDLAR or MYLAR layer and having an outer layer of a material that is resistant to degradation by ultra violet radiation. U.S. Pat. No. 6 979 479 teaches a laminate of a liquid crystal polymer fiber yarn layer VECTRAN as an interior surface an adhesive layer a polyimide layer and a polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF layer which forms the exterior surface.

In these materials the various layers function as a gas barrier to retain helium or hydrogen and or to provide protection from degradation caused by for example ozone or ultraviolet radiation. The flexible fabric laminate may further include a thin metallic coating to provide a means for passive thermal management reduce helium permeation minimize the affects of lightening strikes and provide a means for uniform static electricity distribution over the hull surface.

As noted above the flexible fabric laminate materials experience a variety of extreme environmental parameters. In addition stress and strain is compounded by the need to use materials that minimize the weight of the vehicle or device. For example a reduction in the quantity of laminating adhesive opening the fabric weave to leave more space between fibers or yarns and using the smaller lower denier yarn can help to reduce the weight but may also reduce the strength and increase local stress concentrations in a fabric laminate. Clearly there is a fine balance between the necessity to use a lightweight material yet use a material that can withstand extreme operating conditions.

In light of the foregoing it is imperative that the properties of a flexible fabric laminate and its constituent materials be known in as detailed a manner as possible in order to predict potential use limitations up to the point of material failure. Knowledge of the strength and property limitations of flexible fabric laminate materials and particularly of lightweight high strength fabric laminate materials will allow for use of the materials within the confines of certain system designs.

Known machines and apparatuses that are used to test material strengths and property limitations of the type discussed hereinabove are limited to devices capable only of creating uniaxial and or symmetrical biaxial stress. Typically a tensile test machine is used to generate uniaxial forces to evaluate the strength and performance of materials. However for inflated structures such as an airship aerostat or blimp the stresses in the hull material due to the inflation pressure are biaxial and unlikely to be equal. For example the stress in the hoop or circumferential direction is two times the stress in the longitudinal or axial direction. To characterize and evaluate the actual performance of airship hull fabric laminates it is necessary to test them while under simultaneous unequal independent biaxial stress. If the lighter than air vehicle is spherical such as a balloon the stresses are generally equal in all directions.

Certain machines are capable of testing in plane shear strength as well however machines with this capability do not create independent biaxial stress. While machines with the ability to apply symmetric biaxial force can simulate operational stresses to a certain degree they fail to provide a means to accurately test a fabric laminate under more realistic applied stress conditions that the material will experience in use particularly the application of sheer stress simultaneously with independently varied biaxial stresses.

As can be seen from the foregoing what is needed is an apparatus capable of generating biaxial loads independently of each other to assess biaxial stress and strain and to further test and evaluate in plane sheer. In addition such an apparatus that also assesses gas permeability gas barrier film delamination and other such parameters while simultaneously subjected to biaxial loads and in plane shear is needed to more accurately predict the performance of flexible fabric laminate materials under extreme conditions.

In one aspect the invention relates to an apparatus for testing performance parameters of a material the apparatus comprising multiple load generating mechanisms each such mechanism being operable independent of each other such mechanism

In another aspect the invention relates to a method for testing the performance parameters of a material under stress comprising providing a material to be tested positioning the material in a testing apparatus simultaneously applying at least two forces to the material at two different locations on the material measuring the amount of force applied to the material and using the measured force to predict the failure point of the material under stress.

In still another aspect of the invention the invention relates to an apparatus for testing performance parameters of a material the apparatus comprising multiple load generating mechanisms each such mechanism being operable independent of each other such mechanism wherein the performance parameters are tested by evaluating at least two of stress strain sheer cyclic loading gas permeability and ply or film separation simultaneously and to a method for using the same to predict the failure point of a flexible fabric laminate.

The subject invention relates to an apparatus and process for testing various parameters and properties of flexible fabric laminate materials. In particular the apparatus comprises a machine using individually controlled biaxial loads to test various material parameters. For example biaxial strength of a material may be tested. Biaxial as used herein refers to a load or state of stress in two orthogonal directions which may be the same load but may also be different loads.

In one aspect the invention disclosed herein provides an apparatus capable of applying individually either uniaxial or biaxial controlled loads simultaneously to test various material parameters.

In another aspect of the invention an apparatus is provided that can assess the permeability of a flexible fabric laminate material with regard to the permeation of for example nitrogen air helium or hydrogen while the material is subjected to various simultaneous combinations of independent biaxial in plane shear cyclic and pressure loading conditions. In yet another aspect of the invention an apparatus is provided that assesses the capability of a flexible fabric laminate material to resist delamination or peeling while subjected to the various simultaneous loading conditions.

In still another aspect the apparatus of the subject invention applies stress in two principle directions. In addition the apparatus has the capability of applying in plane sheer by additionally applying two balanced opposite loads to create a sheering moment in a flexible fabric laminate material already experiencing biaxial stress. This stress situation can be equated to that experienced by for example an airship the skin of which will experience all of these types of loads to one degree or another.

As is stated hereinabove known biaxial testing machines are capable of testing individual loads. However known machines that also test sheer do not have this capability. This means that the machine can only load the flexible fabric laminate material being evaluated in a 1 1 ratio in two orthogonal directions. The apparatus and system provided herein however is not so limited and instead provides for individual loading of the flexible fabric laminate material in any ratio desired and for the addition of in plane sheer all being tested simultaneously. This is important to assessing actual in use performance parameters where for example an airship may experience load ratios of from 1 1 mainly at the ends of the airship where the geometry is most like a sphere to 2 1 mainly in the center of the airship where the geometry is most like a cylinder. With traditional testing machines a different machine would be needed to test this central load ratio for example a cylinder tester than one would use to test the end region load ratio.

One advantage of the method and system design of this aspect of the invention is that the load ratio may be varied to fit any stress state without the necessity of using multiple machines. This capability provides more accurate data for assessing the overall qualification of a certain material for use in a particular application. More critically a flexible fabric laminate material s failure points can be assessed thus providing valuable data for the prediction of use limits. The fabric or material strain parameters may be measured using for example available techniques including but not limited to photogrammatery strain gauges extensometers and others.

Sheer loading elements provide a means for generating the force which will be converted to sheer loading of the material sample. This loading is generally applied as a lesser load in comparison to the biaxial loads applied. For example for high strength flexible fabric laminate materials the shear load may be a factor of 10 to 20 less than in the main biaxial load direction.

Active shear linkages provide a means for measuring the load that is transferred to the clamps during testing and evaluation. The passive primary load linkages provide a linkage to transfer reacted loads from the active links into the clamping mechanism .

Fabric clamps each have plates for example comprised of metal though other plate materials may be used between which the fabric test material is clamped. The clamps shown in are placed directly across from each other one on each side of the apparatus. Though the clamps are likely always to be placed in symmetrical pairs it is envisioned that spacing between different pairs of clamps may vary depending on the tests to be performed. Clamping the material or fabric in this manner provides stability in both the pulling and sheer directions. The cruciform shape of the fabric test material which includes multiple parallel slits cut in cruciform arms allows attachment to the clamping mechanism and minimizes distortion and stress concentrations in the central test area due to independent loading in the diametrically orthogonal directions. Fixed sheer linkages provide the stability necessary to accomplish sheer loading. It is noted that any linkage specified herein as passive could be replaced with an actuator and a set of active linkages.

Active primary load linkages are instrumented linkages. By instrumented is meant that the linkages include load cells. The load cells are placed in line with the linkage and operate to convert the force applied or generated into an electrical signal which can then be gathered by a suitable mechanism for doing so and converted into the desired stress measurement.

The primary loading elements or force multiplication arms provide the force which loads the orthogonal directions of the material. Shown in is an actuator acting through a load multiplying lever. The load could also be applied directly or indirectly through the use of for example an electric actuator a pneumatic cylinder or cylinders a hydraulic cylinder or cylinders screw mechanisms and or weights.

Permeability test chamber bottom cover may also function as a film adhesion or peel test chamber. In this capacity the chamber provides a container and interfaces for generating a volume of a known reference gas on one side of the flexible fabric laminate material or sample fabric which as in the permeability test set up is placed horizontally between top cover and bottom cover . It further provides a volume and interfaces applied to the fabric surface opposite to that where the gas is applied to apply a vacuum source. In use this test is used to check and or verify the adhesion of film material to reinforcements. For example an alternative to the flexible fabric laminate described hereinabove may be the addition thereto of stronger fibers to address known stress parameters or conditions. Such fibers may be included in the laminate in any amount so as to reinforce the laminate in response to an anticipated or potential stress under given conditions of use.

The apparatus of the subject invention allows various stress states to be tested simultaneously and without the need to apply forces in a symmetric manner on a fabric sample. Advantageous to this system in addition to the advantages mentioned above is the capability to test samples in the cruciform form which allows performance parameters to be assessed on samples having various sizes all using the same apparatus. For example slight modification of clamping mechanisms linkages load cells and other components will allow use of one apparatus to test and evaluate samples in a range of sizes. This enhances not only the cost efficiency of the testing procedure but also addresses sample preparation concerns. More importantly because only one machine is being used the data generated can more accurately be compared between test runs even if the sample sizes may vary.

In addition to the foregoing the results of testing conducted using the apparatus and process herein is scalable and therefore readily applicable to many design applications. Further the flat shape of the high strength flexible fabric laminate sample allows for integration of auxiliary test scenarios. In this regard the permeability and peel strength tests provide just two examples of such auxiliary testing though others may be available. Because the loads are independently controlled there is an unlimited combination of loading conditions which can be assessed and cyclic and programmable loading profiles which may be applied to simulate any number of potential uses of the material thus providing a mechanism to more accurately evaluate potential failure points of a specific material in a specific use situation or under specific conditions.

For example cyclic loading is a repetitive and controlled loading of the sample. This type of loading is used to determine the behavior of a material as it experiences loading and unloading during day to day operational and cyclic use. This type of cyclic loading and unloading may also be generated by vibrations from the propulsion system.

The apparatus and process for using the same in accord with the invention provides valuable information for a multitude of potential material applications. Though the invention has been described herein with regard to certain aspects thereof such aspects are not intended to limit the uses of the apparatus or process which will find application in many related testing scenarios.

