---

title: Analyzing activity patterns in online communities
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for analyzing patterns and trends in online communities, and more particularly to organizing and analyzing data from community collaboration platforms and websites such as wikis, mailing lists, bug trackers, project management tools, and version control systems. At least one collaboration space can contain and store topics which can be submitted to and accessible by a plurality of users. The plurality of users can start new topics or add to existing topics within the at least one collaboration space. The at least one collaboration space can organize data within the topics according to various attributes of the data and the topics. The at least one collaboration space can send the organized data to a dashboard, which can create data organization aids to analyze the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09466049&OS=09466049&RS=09466049
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09466049
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for analyzing activity patterns in online communities and more particularly to organizing and analyzing data from community collaboration platforms and websites such as wiki sites mailing lists version control systems project management tools and bug trackers.

Community collaboration platforms and websites are known which allow members from a public or private community to contribute to or modify content which is shared on the platforms and websites. Some forms of these platforms and websites can comprise wikis mailing lists version control systems bug trackers and project management tools such as for example Trac. In particular software developers utilize wikis as a platform for the developers and the community to share information with the goal to help solve the software problem or issue presented. Further software developers utilize mailing lists project management systems and or bugtrackers to submit updates problems fixes and or the like to accomplish the same goals. Opening up the platform to a community often facilitates the development of the software by providing users a platform to easily and freely submit and exchange updates and ideas.

Existing collaboration platforms and software wikis provide no mechanism to organize and analyze the updates submitted to and information exchanged within the platforms and utilities such as for example analyzing the proportions of which groups are contributing to the updates and exchanging information predicting the market for a new piece of software determining the quality of the software idea and or performing other analyses.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of collaboration environments and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for organizing a collaboration environment. More particularly the systems and methods can access data in at least one collaboration space contributed by a plurality of users. The systems and methods can identify categories of the data associated with the activity of a group of users. The systems and methods can generate a report indicating the categories of the data associated with each user in the plurality of users. These and other embodiments described herein provide a network operator or other user with enhanced analytic capability without a need to manually inspect the updates and additions made to the at least one collaboration space by individual users.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present teachings which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Where possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In embodiments as shown in a plurality of users can access resources including a network the collaboration environment and a dashboard . The network can be implemented on one or more servers or on other hardware and can provide a gateway for the plurality of users to access the collaboration environment . The network can for example be or include a personal area network a local area network a metropolitan area network a wide area network the Internet an intranet an extranet a virtual private network a peer to peer network a wireless self configuring network or other networks or connections.

The plurality of users can connect to the collaboration environment through the network . The collaboration environment can include one or more collaboration spaces . Each of the one or more collaboration spaces can be created and or moderated by one of the plurality of users or by another internal or external user. In embodiments the one or more collaboration spaces can each correspond to an appropriate platform or utility such as for example a wiki a mailing list a version control system a bug tracker a project management tool and similar data tracking and collaborating utilities. The one or more collaboration spaces can be connected to the network and can be configured to communicate with each other. The one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to gather and house data from other utilities or collaboration spaces such as for example a mailing list without actually gathering collaboration data from outside users.

The one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to be used as a public collaboration environment or in a business as an intranet or knowledge management system. The one or more collaboration spaces can be implemented or supported using known components of hardware software or combinations thereof. For example the one or more collaboration spaces can be written in suitable programming languages such as Java C Python code and the like to accommodate a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc. In embodiments the one or more collaboration spaces can be implemented via servers or other hardware accessible though a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc.

The plurality of users can include users with access to the network such as for example public users or business employees. The plurality of users can therefore comprise of any combination of users who create submit to and moderate the one or more collaboration spaces and outside users who have access to the one or more collaboration spaces . In embodiments access to submit to or update the one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to require authentication of users of the plurality of users .

The one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to be or include an environment or a collection of web pages designed to enable the plurality of users to access contribute and or modify content contained therein. Further the one or more collaboration space can be configured to store data submitted by the plurality of users such as for example a mailing list a version control system a bug tracker or a project management tool. The one or more collaboration spaces can be configured with a storage means such as for example a database. The storage means can be configured to store and maintain the data contained in the one or more collaboration spaces . The storage means can be implemented as a standard database. The storage means can be implemented using known database technology such as relational databases object oriented databases or other databases or data stores.

The one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to allow an environment for user collaboration such as for example a wiki. The one or more collaboration spaces can further be configured to store data submitted by users or gathered from utilities. For example the one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to receive bug tracking data from a bug tracking application. The one or more collaboration spaces can include various content that can be categorized into separate technical or other topics problems forums or other areas. For example the one or more collaboration spaces can include a page or topic area focused on the improvement of a certain aspect of a software program. The content can for instance include content in the form of email a blog update an uploaded file forum discussions an IRC chat a website and other forms of communication. The plurality of users can start new topics problems or other areas within the one or more collaboration spaces . The plurality of users can add content to or modify existing content within the topics problems or other areas in the one or more collaboration spaces . The plurality of users can add comments or ideas about existing content or can add comments or ideas on content that has not yet been added to the one or more collaboration spaces .

The plurality of users can choose which topics problems or other areas that they want to start or address. For example one of the plurality of users can choose a topic relating to an improvement of a software program and can then add or modify content to that topic. Further for example one of the plurality of users can start a new topic problem or other area addressing an improvement of a software program. When one of the plurality of users adds new content modifies existing content poses a question makes a comment or performs any other change to the topic in the one or more collaboration spaces the data in the one or more collaboration spaces can be accordingly updated to reflect the change. The updated can be performed such that any of the plurality of users can access the updated content once the update is made. The one or more collaboration spaces can include a revision history such that any addition or modification is stored in the database and is viewable to the plurality of users . The plurality of users can access the revision history to locate and view additions or modifications contained therein.

In embodiments the one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to gather and store data from the plurality of users and from application programs and utilities. The one or more collaboration spaces can each correspond to different data mining and collaborating utilities such as for example mailing lists version control systems bug trackers project management tools and similar data tracking and collaborating utilities. The one or more collaboration spaces can be configured to communicate with and send data to each other.

When one of the plurality of users or a data mining utility submits or modifies content in the one or more collaboration spaces the one or more collaboration spaces can make a data record. The data record can include data relating to the submission or modification of the content such as for example the user s email address username and location a timestamp an indication of the user s activity within the one or more collaboration spaces a category of the topic or project being submitted or modified and other data types. For example the data record can indicate that the project being updated modified or submitted is related to hardware a software improvement a part of a development environment or other areas. The data record can also include what type of change the user makes such as for example a code addition or modification a comment a question and other changes. The data record can be stored in the storage means along with the content in the one or more collaboration spaces .

The dashboard can be configured to connect to the network and to the one or more collaboration spaces . The dashboard can be configured to receive read analyze and or modify data records and other content from the one or more collaboration spaces the storage means and or the network .

The dashboard can be a useful tool for a user to analyze one or more relationships contained in the data records and other content within the one or more collaboration spaces . For example the one or more collaboration spaces can be created and maintained by a company organization or other group. Further different topics or projects within the one or more collaboration spaces can be created accessed and submitted to by outside parties or users within the company organization or other group. The dashboard can compare the number of submissions or updates in a given topic or project by outside parties to the number of submissions or updates by users within the group which creates or maintains the one or more collaboration spaces .

The dashboard can gauge that if for example a topic or project has many collaboration submissions from outside users with outside domain emails or if a stored mailing list has a lot of submitted fixes then there can be an increased likelihood that the topic or project has a high commercial interest that the topic or project contains problems or errors that the topic or project requires patches or other indications. In contrast if a topic or project has few collaboration submissions from outside users or if a stored mailing list has few submitted fixes then there can for instance be a perceived likelihood that the topic or project has a comparatively lower commercial interest that the topic or project contains few problems or errors that the topic or project requires few patches or other indications. Further the dashboard can identify individual areas of a topic or project that are being most investigated which can help pinpoint which individual areas may need the most attention or may have the most commercial interest. Similarly the dashboard can use the data to determine which topics projects or parts thereof may not be worth pursuing from a business standpoint.

The dashboard can be configured to automatically calculate organize output store or display data for viewing or use by a user. In embodiments a user can configure the dashboard to create and send reports graphs charts lists tables display devices or other forms of data organization based on customizable data criteria. For example a user can configure the dashboard to create a daily weekly monthly or other graph of the topics in the one or more collaboration spaces which receive the most updates and submissions from outside utilities or from the plurality of users .

The dashboard can be implemented as hardware software or combinations thereof. The dashboard and can be configured to run on any or all of the one or more collaboration spaces or execute remotely on a separate computer system as illustrated. For example the dashboard can integrate with the software or hardware of the one or more collaboration spaces or can be written separately in a variety of programming languages such as Java C Python code and the like to accommodate a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc.

The analysis engine can be configured to contain logic to perform the receiving organizing and outputting as described below. The analysis engine can be configured to connect to the input API and the output API . The analysis engine can further be configured to receive or retrieve the data from the input API . The analysis engine can further be configured to read analyze consolidate and or modify the data received from the input API .

The analysis engine can be configured to organize the data into the type of submission or modification such as for example emails source code blog posts file uploads forum discussions IRC chats websites and other forms of submission and modification. For example the analysis engine can extract and organize user related attributes from the data such as for example the user s email address user name and location timestamp an indication of the user s activity within the one or more collaboration spaces and other data attributes stored in the data . The analysis engine can be configured to organize the extracted information from the data and output the organized information to the output API . For example the analysis engine can be configured to organize and output a list of the emails of the plurality of users who submit and modify content in a particular topic or problem in the one or more collaboration spaces . In embodiments the analysis engine can store data and information in a data repository .

The dashboard can be configured to connect with the one or more collaboration spaces through the input API . The input API can be configured to request or receive additional data from the one or more collaboration spaces . For example the dashboard can request the email addresses of the users who have contributed to a particular topic or problem in the one or more collaboration spaces and the dashboard can retrieve the email addresses and send them to the analysis engine .

The analysis engine can be configured to create reports graphs charts lists tables display devices or other forms of data organization. For example the analysis engine can create a chart detailing the relative proportions of all of the email addresses of users of the plurality of users who have contributed to a particular topic presented in the one or more collaboration spaces . For further example the analysis engine can create a report indicating the identity of the domain names from which users have emailed content into the one or more collaboration spaces and or the relative proportions of email or other traffic received from specific domains. For still example the analysis engine can be configured to create a graph detailing the relative update activity of particular topics presented in the one or more collaboration spaces .

The analysis engine can be configured to send output data and other content to an outside user network computer or any other software or hardware component via the output API in the form of an output report . The output report can be a report list or other record or form of data organization. For example the output report can be a chart of all of the email addresses of users of the plurality of users who have contributed to a particular topic presented in the one or more collaboration spaces . In embodiments output report can be received by an outside component for storage or display such as for example a hard drive server monitor touch screen or other device used to store or display data.

In embodiments a user can use the dashboard to customize the data received from the one or more collaboration spaces and to create reports graphs charts lists tables or other records or forms of data organization. The user can customize the data organization aids and their associated content for personal use presentations temporary use or for other reasons. The dashboard or the user of the dashboard can customize the data or to send the output report to another client computer server or other storage system. The dashboard or the user of the dashboard can create data organization aids using any or all of the attributes from any or all parts of the output data including for example emails source code blog posts file uploads forum discussion IRC chats websites and other forms of submission and modification.

The processor further communicates with a network interface such as an Ethernet or wireless data connection which in turn communicates with one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. The processor also communicates with the memory the network interface and the repository to execute control logic and perform the assignments and processes described above. The processor can further communicate with the dashboard to execute the functions described in embodiments. Other configurations of the computer system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

Output diagram as shown in includes a pie chart and a title bar . As shown in the title bar includes a title generally relevant to the pie chart . The output diagram refers to a project in the one or more collaboration spaces relating to a software product such as Cobbler. Further the pie chart in the output diagram contains the email domains of users who update or contribute to the Cobbler project in the one or more collaboration spaces . The pie chart details the proportions of the email domains of users who update the Cobbler project. For example users with the email domain redhat.com make 34 of the updates and contributions to the Cobbler project users with the email domain gmail.com make 33 of the updates and contributions to the Cobbler project and according percentages of the email domains byte code.com and opensourcedev.com as shown in . In embodiments the output diagram can display the total number of updates and contributions to the Cobble project. Further in embodiments the output diagram can be configured to display any type of organization of the output data contained in the one or more collaboration spaces in accordance with the embodiments of the present teachings as described above.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

