---

title: Locating a provisioning server
abstract: A provisioning client can be configured to automatically locate a provisioning server in a provisioning environment in order to perform software provisioning. The provisioning client can locate the provisioning server by detecting the location of the provisioning server or by selecting the appropriate provisioning server from a record of available provisioning servers. Once located, the provisioning client can be configured to establish a connection with the provisioning server and to request or receive software provisioning.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838827&OS=08838827&RS=08838827
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08838827
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
Software provisioning is the process of selecting a target machine such as a server loading the appropriate software operating system device drivers middleware and applications and customizing and configuring the system and the software to make it ready for operation. Software provisioning can entail a variety of tasks such as creating or changing a boot image specifying parameters e.g. IP address IP gateway to find associated network and storage resources and then starting the machine and its newly loaded software. Typically a system administrator will perform these tasks using various tools because of the complexity of these tasks. Unfortunately there is a lack of provisioning control tools that can adequately integrate and automate these tasks.

Typically software provisioning involves a provisioning client program interacting with a provisioning server. The provisioning client assists with the provisioning of the software from the provisioning server to the target machines. To facilitate this interaction the provisioning client must be supplied with the identity such as network ID and location such as a network address of the provisioning server with which to communicate. Typically this involves a user manually entering the identity and location of the appropriate provisioning server. As such the user must identify and locate the appropriate provisioning server and must have knowledge of how to enter the specifics of the provisioning server in the provisioning client.

This becomes cumbersome as provisioning clients are often spread across wide geographic locations and may need to access different provisioning server. Because provisioning clients may access different provisioning servers the provisioning clients cannot easily be associated with a predefined provisioning server. Additionally because the provisioning servers may change over time due to network or service changes the provisioning clients cannot be preprogrammed with the identify and location of a specific provisioning server. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a provisioning environment in which a provisioning client can automatically locate provisioning servers.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for automatically locating a provisioning server in a software provisioning environment. More particularly a provisioning client can be configured to automatically locate a provisioning server in order to request software provisioning.

According to embodiments a provisioning client can be configured to include a locater module. The locater module can be configured to automatically locate a provisioning server in the provisioning environment in order to perform software provisioning. Once located the provisioning client can be configured to establish a connection with the provisioning server and to request software provisioning.

In embodiments in order to locate the provisioning server the provisioning client can be configured to detect broadcast network information from the provisioning server in order establish a connection with the provisioning server. In particular a provisioning server can be configured to broadcast its network information such as network identification network location or configuration. In order establish a connection the locater module of the provisioning client be configured to automatically detect the broadcast network information from the provisioning server. Once detected the provisioning client can establish a connection with the provisioning server based on the broadcast network information. Once a connection is established the provisioning client can communicate with the provisioning server in order to perform software provisioning.

Additionally in embodiments in order to locate a provisioning server the provisioning client can be configured to maintain a record of available provisioning servers. The record can include the network information network identity network location and configuration for each available provisioning server and a priority value for each available provisioning server. The locater module can be configured to select one of the available provisioning servers from the record for establishing a connection. The locater module can select the provisioning server based on the priority value. Once selected the provisioning client can be configured to establish a connection with the selected provisioning server. Additionally if a connection cannot be established with the selected provisioning server or the connection is not optimal the provisioning client can be configured to select a different provisioning server from the record.

By automatically locating the provisioning server the provisioning client can facilitate software provisioning without interaction from a user or administrator to establish a connection to the server. As such the provisioning client can be utilized by users that may not have detailed knowledge of the software provisioning environment. Additionally because the provisioning server is automatically detected the provisioning client can be universally used in wide geographic areas without modification to the provisioning client.

In particular the provisioning environment can manage software provisioning using a hierarchy of commands. In exemplary embodiments the hierarchy can include at least four levels of commands. The lowest level in the hierarchy can comprise distribution commands which primarily handle base operating system specific tasks of provisioning. The second level can comprise profile commands which associate a configuration file such as a kickstart file for Linux or other operating system with a distribution and optionally allow for customization. The third level comprises system commands which associate remote systems that are involved with the provisioning of the software. The fourth level comprises repository commands which address configurations and tasks related to updating the software remote installation procedures and optionally customizing the software.

The provisioning environment provides several capabilities and advantages over the known provisioning solutions. For example the present invention is capable of handling a variety of forms of installations such as preboot execution environment PXE virtualization re installations and image installations.

In exemplary aspects the provisioning environment enables integrating virtualization into a PXE provisioning infrastructure and provides several options to reinstall running machines as well. The provisioning environment can integrate mirroring of package repositories with the provisioning process so that a provisioning server may serve as a central mirror point of contract for all of an organization s software needs. In aspects a set of remote mirrored repositories can automatically be used by provisioned systems without additional setup.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary aspects the provisioning environment . The provisioning environment can be applied to provisioning any form of software such as Windows systems UNIX systems and Linux systems. In the exemplary description that follows is presented to explain the provisioning environment for provisioning software such as Linux and Linux based software such as Fedora and Red Hat Enterprise Linux by Red Hat Inc.

In provisioning of software such as Linux many system administrators use what is known as the kickstart installation method. Kickstart files are files that specify the intended configuration of the software being provisioned. Kickstart files can be kept on a server and can be read by individual computers during the installation. This installation method allows the use a single or relatively few standard kickstart files to install Linux on multiple machines making it ideal for network and system administrators.

The kickstart file can be a simple text file containing a list of items each identified by a keyword. In general a kickstart file can be edited with any text editor or word processor that can save files as ASCII text. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be applied to non kickstart files in software provisioning. For example configuration files such as AutoYAST Answer files used in Novell SuSe Linux and Sun Solaris Jumpstart files may also be used by the provisioning environment .

Typically a kickstart file can be copied to the boot disk or made available on the network. The network based approach is most commonly used as most kickstart installations for software provisioning such as Linux systems tend to be performed via a network using NFS FTP or HTTP on networked computers. Administrators also find it desirable that kickstart installations can be performed using a local CD ROM or a local hard drive.

Using kickstart files a system administrator can create a single file containing the parameters that are needed to complete a typical software installation. For example kickstart files specify parameters related to language selection mouse configuration keyboard selection boot loader installation disk partitioning network configuration NIS LDAP Kerberos Hesiod and Samba authentication firewall configuration and package selection.

According to exemplary aspects illustrated in the provisioning environment can include a provisioning server a code repository which provides access to distributions and a set of installation templates a set of exception plugins a helper client running on target machines in a network a provisioning database which comprises a distribution tree list and template list . Each of these components will now be further described.

The provisioning server from herein referred to as a cobbler is responsible for serving as a extensible markup language remote procedure call XMLRPC handler linking to or mirroring install distribution trees and a configuration database hosting kickstart templates hosting plugins generating installation images and the like. The cobbler server can be implemented as software such as Python code installed on a boot server machine and provides a command line interface for configuration of the boot server. In addition the cobbler server can make itself available as a Python application programming interface API for use by higher level management software not shown . The cobbler server supports provisioning via PXE image ISO installation virtualization re provisioning. As will be described later the last two modes are performed with the assistance of a helper client .

The code repository is responsible for hosting distributions and . The code repository may be implemented using well known components of hardware and software. Additionally the code repository can be include one or more repositories hosting distributions. The distributions and can include bundles of software that is already compiled and configured. The distributions and may be in the form of either rpm deb tgz msi exe formats and the like. For example as Linux distributions the distributions and are bundles of software that comprise the Linux kernel the non kernel parts of the operating system and assorted other software. The distributions and can take a variety of forms from fully featured desktop and server operating systems to minimal environments.

In exemplary aspects the installation templates are any data structure or processing element that can be combined with a set of installation configurations and processed to produce a resulting configuration file such as a kickstart file.

In exemplary aspects exception plugins is software that interacts with cobbler server to customize the provisioning of software. In general the exceptions plugins are intended to address infrequent customization needs.

In exemplary aspects the helper client known as koan which stands for kickstart over a network can assist the cobbler server during the provisioning processes. The koan can allow for both network provisioning of new virtualized guests and destructive provisioning of any existing system. When invoked the koan can request profile information from a remote boot server that has been configured with the cobbler server . In some aspects what the koan does with the profile data depends on whether it was invoked with virt or replace self.

In exemplary aspects the koan can enable replacing running systems as well as installing virtualized profiles. The koan can also be pushed out to systems automatically from the boot server. In some aspects the koan client is also written in Python code to accommodate a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc.

In exemplary aspects the network can include a number of the target machines . The target machines can represent the particular machines to which software provisioning is directed. The target machines may represent a wide variety of computing devices such as personal computers servers laptop computers personal mobile devices and the like. In some aspects the target machines can represent distributed computing environments such as cloud computing environments. Although shows several of the target machines the provisioning environment can be capable of managing a wide range environments such as datacenters with thousands of machines or server pools with just a few machines. Additionally the cobbler server can be connected to multiple networks .

In exemplary aspects the provisioning database can serve as a data storage location for holding data used by the cobbler server . For example as shown the provisioning database can comprise the distribution tree list and the template list . The distribution tree list can provide an inventory of the distributions and that are hosted or mirrored by the cobbler server . The template list can provide an inventory of the templates that are hosted by the cobbler server .

As noted above the cobbler server can manage provisioning using a hierarchical concept of distribution commands profile commands system commands and repository commands. This framework enables the cobbler server to abstract the differences between multiple provisioning types installation reinstallation and virtualization and allows installation of all three from a common platform. This hierarchy of commands also permits the cobbler server to integrate software repositories with the provisioning process thus allowing systems to be configured as a mirror for software updates and third party content as well as distribution content.

Distributions can contain information about base operating system tasks such as what kernel and initial ramdisk initrd are used in the provisioning along with other information such as required kernel parameters. Profiles associate one of the distributions and with a kickstart file and optionally customize it further for example using plugins . Systems commands associate a hostname IP or MAC with a distribution and optionally customize the profile further. Repositories contain update information such as yum mirror information that the cobbler server uses to mirror repository . The cobbler server can also manage generate DHCP configuration files using the templates .

In exemplary aspects the cobbler server can use a provisioning environment that is fully templated allowing for kickstarts and PXE files to be customized by the user. The cobbler server uses the concept of profiles as an intermediate step between the operating system and the installed system. A profile is a description of what a system does rather than the software to be installed. For instance a profile might describe a virtual web server with X amount of RAM Y amounts of disk space running a Linux distribution Z and with an answer file W.

In exemplary aspects the cobbler server can provide a command line interface to configure a boot server in which it is installed. For example the format of the cobbler server commands can be generally in the format of cobbler command subcommand arg1 arg2 . Thus a user can specify various aspects of software provisioning via a single interface such as a command line interface or other known interface. Examples of exemplary cobbler commands can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 763 315 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0288938 A1 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 763 333 U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2008 288939 A1 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

According to exemplary aspects a user can use various commands of the provisioning environment to specify distributions and install trees hosted by the code repository such as a distribution from the distributions or . A user can add or import a distribution or import it from installation media or an external network location.

According to exemplary aspects in order to import a distribution the cobbler server can auto add distributions and profiles from remote sources whether this is an installation media such as a DVD an NFS path or an rsync mirror. When importing a rsync mirror the cobbler server can try to detect the distribution type and automatically assign kickstarts. By default in some embodiments the cobbler server can provision by erasing the hard drive setting up eth for DHCP and using a default password. If this is undesirable an administrator may edit the kickstart files in etc cobbler to do something else or change the kickstart setting after the cobbler server creates the profile.

According to exemplary aspects a user may map profiles to the distributions and map systems to the profiles using profile commands and systems commands of the provisioning environment . A profile associates a distribution to additional specialized options such as a kickstart automation file. In the cobbler server profiles are the unit of provisioning and at least one profile exists for every distribution to be provisioned. A profile might represent for instance a web server or desktop configuration.

According to exemplary aspects a user can map systems to profiles using system commands. Systems commands can assign a piece of hardware with cobbler server to a profile. Systems can be defined by hostname Internet Protocol IP address or MAC address. When available use of the MAC address to assign systems can be preferred.

According to exemplary aspects the user can map repositories and profiles using repository commands. Repository commands can address configurations and tasks related to updating the software remote installation procedures and optionally customizing the software. These repository commands can also specify mirroring of the provisioned software to remote servers. Repository mirroring can allow the cobbler server to mirror not only install the trees and but also optional packages third party content and updates. Mirroring can be useful for faster more up to date installations and faster updates or providing software on restricted networks. The cobbler server can also include other administrative features such as allowing the user to view their provisioning configuration or information tracking the status of a requested software installation.

According to exemplary aspects a user can utilize commands to create a provisioning infrastructure from a distribution mirror. Then a default PXE configuration is created so that by default systems will PXE boot into a fully automated install process for that distribution. The distribution mirror can be a network rsync mirror or a mounted DVD location.

According to exemplary aspects the administrator uses a local kernel and initrd file already downloaded and shows how profiles would be created using two different kickstarts one for a web server configuration and one for a database server Then a machine can be assigned to each profile.

According to exemplary aspects a repo mirror can be set up for two repositories and create a profile that will auto install those repository configurations on provisioned systems using that profile.

According to exemplary aspects in addition to normal provisioning the cobbler server can support yet another option called enchant . Enchant takes a configuration that has already been defined and applies it to a remote system that might not have the remote helper program installed. Users might want to use this command to replace a server that is being repurposed or when no PXE environment can be created. Thus the enchant option allows the remote the koan client to be executed remotely from the cobbler server .

According to aspects if the cobbler server is configured to mirror certain repositories the cobbler server can then be used to associate profiles with those repositories. Systems installed under those profiles can be auto configured to use these repository mirrors in commands and if supported these repositories can be leveraged. This can be useful for a large install base fast installation and upgrades for systems are desired or software not in a standard repository exists and provisioned systems are desired to know about that repository.

According to exemplary aspects the cobbler server may also keep track of the status of kickstarting machines. For example the cobbler status will show when the cobbler server thinks a machine started kickstarting and when it last requested a file. This can be a desirable way to track machines that may have gone inactive during kickstarts. The cobbler server can also make a special request in the post section of the kickstart to signal when a machine is finished kickstarting.

According to exemplary aspects for certain commands the cobbler server will create new virtualized guests on a machine in accordance to the orders from the cobbler server . Once finished an administrator may use additional commands on the guest or other operations. The cobbler server can automatically name domains based on their MAC addresses. For re kickstarting the cobbler server can reprovision the system deleting any current data and replacing it with the results of a network install.

According to exemplary aspects the cobbler server can configure boot methods for the provisioning requested by the user. For example the cobbler server can configure a PXE environment such as a network card BIOS. Alternatively the cobbler server can compile and configure information for koan client . The cobbler server can also optionally configured DHCP and DNS configuration information.

According to exemplary aspects the cobbler server can serve the request of the koan client . The koan client can acknowledge the service of information of the cobbler server and then can initiate installation of the software being provisioned. Additionally the koan client can either install the requested software e.g. replace the existing operating system or install a virtual machine.

In embodiments the locater module can be implemented as a portion of the code for the provisioning client . Likewise the locater module can be implemented as a separate software tool accessible by the provisioning client . The locater module can be written in a variety of programming languages such as JAVA C XML Python code and the like to accommodate a variety of operating systems machine architectures etc.

In embodiments in order to locate the cobbler server the provisioning client can be configured to detect broadcast network information from the cobbler server in order establish a connection with the cobbler server . In particular a cobbler server can be configured to include a broadcast module . the broadcast module can be configured to maintain or locate the network information for the cobbler server and to broadcast the network information across the networks connected to the cobbler server . The network information can include information such as network identification host name cobbler server name etc. network location network address etc. or configuration type of software provisioning supported authentication information etc. .

In embodiments the broadcast module can be implemented as hardware software and combinations thereof. Additionally the broadcast module can utilize any type of network protocol or procedure such as zeroconf protocols to broadcast the network information . For example the broadcast module can utilize multicast DNS using such software or tools as Avahi and or BONJOUR RENDEVOUS by APPLE Corp. to broadcast the network information .

In embodiments in order establish a connection the locater module can be configured to automatically detect the broadcast network information from the cobbler server . In particular the locater module can be configured to listen to the networks connected to the provisioning client in order to detect any network information . The locater module can utilize any type of network protocol or procedure such as zeroconf protocols to detect the network information . For example the locater module can utilize multicast DNS using such software or tools as Avahi and or BONJOUR RENDEVOUS by APPLE Corp.

Once detected the provisioning client can establish a connection with the cobbler server based on the broadcast network information . In particular the provisioning client can utilize the network information to configure the provisioning client to communicate with cobbler server .

Additionally in embodiments the provisioning client can be configured to provide authentication information to the cobbler server . Authentication information can include any type of data that can be created and verified using well known security and cryptographic processes such as such as digital certificates digital signature cryptographic authentication and the like in order to establish and verify the identity of the provisioning client . The cobbler server can be configured to utilize any well know security and cryptographic processes to authenticate and verify the authentication information . Additionally the provisioning client can be configured to authenticate the cobbler server utilizing similar processes.

Additionally in embodiments in order to locate the cobbler server the provisioning client can be configured to maintain a record of available provisioning servers such as the cobbler server and provisioning servers . Provisioning servers can be configured as cobbler servers or any other type of software provisioning server. The provisioning client can be configured to maintain the list in any type of format such as a network service record DNS SRV records .

In embodiments the record can include the network information such as such as network identification host name cobbler server name etc. network location network address etc. or configuration type of software provisioning supported authentication information etc. for each available provisioning server and a priority value for each available provisioning server. The priority value can represent the order by which the provisioning client will select the provisioning servers. The locater module can be configured to select one of the available provisioning servers from the record for establishing a connection. For example the cobbler server can have the highest priority value and the locater module can select the cobbler server . Once selected the provisioning client can be configured to establish a connection with the cobbler server as mentioned above.

Additionally in embodiments if a connection cannot be established with the selected provisioning server or the connection is not optimal the provisioning client can be configured to select a different provisioning server from the record . For example if cobbler server is not available or not optimal the locater module can be configured to select the next available provisioning server with the next highest priority value. The provisioning client can be configured to determine if the provisioning server is optimal based on such parameters as network performance provisioning server availability provisioning services offered by the provisioning server geographic location of the provisioning server and the like.

Additionally in embodiments in order to locate the cobbler server the provisioning client can be configured to search for the provisioning servers by common identification. For example the locater module can search for common names of provisioning servers such as cobbler. 

Once a connection is established by any of the processes the provisioning client can communicate with the cobbler server in order to perform software provisioning. The software provisioning can include any type of provisioning described above such as software installs software re installs virtualization and the like. The software provisioning can be at the request of provisioning client or at the direction of cobbler server .

Additionally the provisioning client can be configured to update the record so that it accurately contains available provisioning servers. The provisioning client can update the record on demand or periodically. The provisioning client can update the record by utilizing locater module to listen for broadcast network information from provisioning servers. Likewise the provisioning client can be configured to request updated network information for the available provisioning servers. For example the provisioning client can query each of the available provisioning servers to determine if each server is still available or if the network information has changed.

Additionally in embodiments the cobbler server can be configured to assist in selecting a provisioning server for the provisioning client . In particular the cobbler server can be configured to maintain a record . Record can include a list of available provisioning server such as provisioning servers . The record can also include information about each provisioning server such as the network information of the provisioning servers software distribution services provided by each the types of software provided by each. The cobbler server can maintain record for example in the database .

In embodiments if a different provisioning server is optimal for the provisioning client the cobbler server can provide the network information to the provisioning client in order to establish a connection. The cobbler server can determine the optimal provisioning server based on the network traffic of the provisioning servers availability of the provisioning servers geographic location of the provisioning server software distribution services provided the types of software provided and the like. Additionally the cobbler server can periodically provide the information in record to the provisioning client so that provisioning client can update record .

Processor further communicates with network interface such as an Ethernet or wireless data connection which in turn communicates with one or more networks and the provisioning client such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Processor also communicates with the provisioning database and the broadcast module to execute control logic and perform the software provisioning processes described above. Other configurations of the cobbler server associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

While illustrates the cobbler server as a standalone system comprising a combination of hardware and software the cobbler server can also be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by a convention computer platform. Likewise the cobbler server can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the cobbler server can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language.

Once located in the provisioning client can be configured to establish a connection with the cobbler server and to request or receive software provisioning. During establishing a connection the provisioning client can be authenticated by the cobbler server and likewise the provisioning client can authenticate the cobbler server .

Optionally in the cobbler server can direct the provisioning client to a different provisioning server better suited for the software provisioning. Also optionally in the provisioning client can update the record . In the process can end but the process can return to any point and repeat.

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

