---

title: Chair footrest mechanism
abstract: A footrest mechanism is disclosed which is adapted to be coupled to a chair to allow a footrest () to be moved between an extended position and a retracted position. The footrest mechanism includes a mounting member () having a guide pin () and a release member () having an L-shaped slot () configured to receive the guide pin. The L-shaped slot () includes a generally horizontal portion () extending from a generally vertical portion () at least partially defined by a stop wall (). The release member () also includes a handling tab () which facilitates the operation of the footrest mechanism () for movement of the footrest () between extended and retracted positions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07445291&OS=07445291&RS=07445291
owner: 
number: 07445291
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080229
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 893 682 entitled CHAIR FOOTREST MECHANISM and filed on Mar. 8 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Hair stylists and the like typically utilize a pivoting chair while styling the hair of an individual. Usually these chairs are equipped with a U shaped footrest which extends downwardly from the front of the chair s seat. Even though these chairs are hydraulically driven to raise and lower the seat portion relative to the underlying floor elderly or handicapped individuals find it difficult to enter into and remove themselves from these chairs. This difficulty arises from the inaccessibility of the seat due to the positioning of the frontwardly extending footrest. Oftentimes with the limited physical capabilities of these individuals they are unable to maneuver themselves from a body supporting device such as a cane a wheelchair or a walker over the footrest and onto the seat. As such these individuals must be hoisted into these chairs which is inefficient for the hair stylists and causes the individuals to experience not only the discomfort of being hoisted but also the indignity associated with needing to be hoisted even for a simple task such as sitting in a hair stylist s chair. Alternatively these individuals must be seated on conventional non pivoting chairs thus also making the hair stylist s job considerably more difficult to complete.

Accordingly it is seen that a need remains for a chair footrest mechanism which enables a person with limited mobility to access the chair seat but which still enables the feet of a seated individual to be supported. It is to the provision of such therefore that the present invention is primarily directed.

A chair footrest mechanism comprises a mounting member adapted to be coupled to a chair with the mounting member including a guide pin a release member having an L shaped slot therethrough configured to receive the mounting member guide pin to allow sliding relative movement between the release member and the mounting member as the guide pin moves along the L shaped slot and a footrest supporting member including at least one leg having an end pivotally coupled to the mounting member about a first pivot point and pivotally coupled to the release member about a second pivot point. With this construction the footrest support member may be moved between a retracted position and an extended position through the guided movement between the mounting member and the release member through movement of the guide pin along the L shaped slot.

With reference to the drawings are left side views of a chair in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the invention. The exemplary chair may for example be in the form of a hair stylist chair that includes a footrest a hydraulically driven pedestal or frame depending from a seat portion a backrest and a pair of arms all of which may be coupled e.g. directly or intermediately to the seat portion as depicted.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments of the invention the chair also include a footrest mechanism which may be coupled to the chair seat portion and the footrest as shown. It should be understood that the exemplary footrest mechanism may or may not include part or all of the footrest in some exemplary embodiments. Elements and aspects of the footrest mechanism will be discussed below. Moreover aspects of the coupling or other connectivity of the various elements discussed herein as well as the materials and construction thereof will also be discussed below.

It is noted that shows the footrest in an extended position via the footrest mechanism . In contrast shows the footrest in a stowed or retracted position e.g. beneath the seat portion via the footrest mechanism . Thus in the footrest mechanism is in an extended configuration while in the footrest mechanism is in a retracted configuration.

Turning now to a more detailed left side view and right side view of the footrest mechanism are shown respectively. With respect to the footrest mechanism includes a left side mounting member . This left side mounting member may be coupled to the chair seat portion e.g. as shown in and the footrest . The left side mounting member is typically moveably engaged with a latch release member which is discussed below. As shown in the the mounting member may include one or more penetrations through it e.g. holes slots voids etc. that may facilitate the coupling of the mounting member to other elements of or in communication with the footrest mechanism . The mounting member includes a bearing or guide pin or post or other similar device such as a stud rivet screw bolt etc.

As mentioned above the footrest mechanism may include part or all of the footrest in some exemplary embodiments. For example as shown in a portion of the typically tubular constructed footrest may be flattened into a spade like shape further exemplified in to facilitate its coupling to the mounting member and latch release member as depicted in . Moreover such portion of the footrest may be a separable element from the footrest in some embodiments that can be coupled to the remaining U shaped portion of the footrest .

As also mentioned above the mounting member is also typically moveably engaged with a latch release member . As shown in the latch release member includes a penetration through it such as an L shaped slot along which the mounting member can moveably engage the release member via the bearing pin . The L shaped slot includes a generally horizontal portion extending from a generally vertical portion at least partially defined by a stop wall . As further shown the release member may include other penetrations that may facilitate the coupling of the mounting member to other elements of or in communication with the footrest mechanism . Also shown in some of the views of the release member is an outwardly extending handling tab which may be either integral or coupled to the release member and typically facilitates the operation of the footrest mechanism via the release member as discussed below. For example looking back to the moveable engagement of the mounting member with the latch release member during the movement of the footrest between extended and retracted positions via the footrest mechanism is depicted.

With respect to the footrest mechanism may also include a right side mounting member in accordance with some exemplary embodiments of the invention. This right side mounting member may also be coupled to the chair seat portion not depicted and the footrest . As shown in the mounting member includes one or more penetrations through it e.g. holes slots voids etc. that may facilitate the coupling of the mounting member to other elements of or in communication with the footrest mechanism .

Similar to the above discussion of the left side mounting member a portion of the typically tubular constructed footrest may be flattened into a spade like shape as shown for example in and further shown in to facilitate its coupling to the mounting member as depicted in . Moreover such portion of the footrest may be a separable element from the footrest in some embodiments that can be coupled to the remaining U shaped portion of the footrest .

Regarding the discussion herein of exemplary embodiments of the invention e.g. as discussed above various elements of the embodiments are referred to as coupled to each other. In that regard it should be understood and or otherwise apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein that the term coupled has a broad meaning that includes conditions such as connected attached engaged in communication with etc. Furthermore it should also be understood or otherwise apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that such elements that are coupled engaged etc. may be so in various states degrees manners etc. such as stationarily moveably pivotally or pivotably hingedly etc. For example in a typical exemplary embodiment of the invention the spade like portion of the footrest is usually pivotally coupled to the mounting member and latch release member such that these elements can move about the point of coupling in at least one plane of rotation see e.g. movement depicted between .

Furthermore with respect to elements that are referred to herein as coupled engaged etc. there are numerous ways that this coupling engaging etc. can be implemented. For example common connectors fasteners etc. may be used such as screws bolts rivets pins studs etc. Such numerous ways of coupling engaging or otherwise communicating among the elements with respect to exemplary embodiments of the invention are either known or will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

Moreover regarding the various elements of exemplary embodiments of the invention discussed herein it should be understood and or otherwise apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein that such elements may be constructed in numerous forms shapes sizes etc. of numerous materials compositions etc. using numerous methods processes procedures etc. For example as shown in some of the figures that will be discussed below exemplary embodiments of the invention may include elements that are constructed of metallic materials such as steel aluminum alloys etc.

In an exemplary usage of the footrest mechanism e.g. starting with the configuration shown in a user such as a hair stylist wishing to seat an individual upon the chair an individual wishing to seat his her self upon the chair etc. may first engage e.g. using a hand or other appropriate means the latch release member . Typically this engaging includes applying an upward and or other force upon the handling tab of the release member the positioning of the handling tab vertically adjacent the L shaped slot ensures that the movement of the handling tab is directed upon the L shaped slot with a minimal effect of the pivoting motion of the release member. It should be understood that the tab may alternatively be positioned vertically below the L shaped slot. Such force allows the mounting member through the relative movement of pin from the slot vertical portion to the slot horizontal portion to moveably engage the release member . During such engaging as exemplified by the spade like portions of the footrest can pivotally engage the left side mounting member and release member and the right side mounting member respectively. As a result the footrest can move from an extended position e.g. as in to a retracted position e.g. as in . In the extended position the stop wall of the release member bears against the guide pin so that the guide pin resides in a locked position within the vertical portion of the L shaped slot of the mounting member . With the guide pin positioned within the vertical portion and bearing against stop wall the release member is in a locked position. As such the application of a downward pressure upon the footrest simply causes the guide pin to bear harder against the stop wall and thereby prevents the footrest from moving or pivoting downwardly.

In the retracted position the end of the horizontal portion of the L shaped slot bears against the pin of the mounting member i.e. reside within the horizontal portion of the L shaped slot. The pin of the mounting member may be a screw bolt or other component that can be adjusted to selectively hold the release member against the mounting member in a fixed position such as the extended position the retracted position or a position between the extended and retracted positions. Depending on the configuration positioning etc. of the chair the footrest the footrest mechanism etc. the movement of the footrest from an extended position to a retracted position may occur as a result of gravity. Alternately the user or individual may apply force to some portion of the footrest mechanism e.g. the handling tab and or other portion of the latch release member the footrest and or other elements to move the footrest to the retracted position. Moreover the footrest may be retracted by other methods that will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art based on the disclosure herein.

As discussed briefly above with the footrest in the retracted position an individual can be seated upon the chair without potential interference from the footrest that could result in instability falls and or other undesirable occurrences by the individual the user etc. Once the individual has become seated in the chair the footrest can be moved back to the extended position to provide support for the individual s feet as discussed above. This extending movement of the footrest can be implemented by various methods. For example the user may similar to above engage the release member e.g. via the handling tab and or the footrest and apply a force accordingly to move the footrest to the extended position. As another example the seated individual may place his her feet e.g. via the heal portion of the worn footwear on the footrest and move it to the extended position for example with a forward kicking motion. Moreover the footrest may be extended by other methods that will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art based on the disclosure herein. It is noted that various configurations e.g. by size shape weight etc. of elements of the footrest mechanism footrest and or the chair may facilitate the retraction and extension of the footrest in manners such as those discussed above. With the upward movement of the footrest the bearing pin is moved from the horizontal portion to the vertical portion of the L shaped slot so as to lock the position of the footrest.

It should be understood that the foregoing descriptions merely relate to exemplary illustrative embodiments of the invention. Therefore it should also be understood that various modifications may be made to exemplary embodiments described herein that are within the scope of the invention which will be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Furthermore various elements of the described exemplary embodiments of the invention may be known in the art or recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art based on the disclosure herein.

