---

title: Ink supply cartridge for a printhead assembly
abstract: Provided is an ink supply cartridge for a printhead assembly having a printhead integrated circuit (IC) and a guide assembly for guiding ink to the IC. The ink supply cartridge includes a first U-shaped top portion defining side walls, and a second base portion for complementarily receiving the first portion so that the side walls define elongate ink reservoirs together with the base portion. The base portion includes an end portion defining a series of air inlets with convoluted winding channels leading to the ink reservoirs, said channels hydrophobically treated to prevent ink escaping from the channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07753508&OS=07753508&RS=07753508
owner: Silverbrook Research Pty Ltd
number: 07753508
owner_city: Balmain, New South Wales
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20080625
---
This is a Continuation of Ser. No. 11 239 031 filed on Sep. 30 2005 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 404 617 which is a Continuation of Ser. No. 11 026 147 filed on Jan. 3 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 988 784 which is a Continuation of Ser. No. 10 729 157 filed on Dec. 8 2003 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 09 112 774 filed on Jul. 10 1998 now abandoned all of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates substantially to the concept of a disposable camera having instant printing capabilities and in particular discloses a printhead assembly for a digital camera system.

Recently the concept of a single use disposable camera has become an increasingly popular consumer item. Disposable camera systems presently on the market normally include an internal film roll and a simplified gearing mechanism for traversing the film roll across an imaging system including a shutter and lensing system. The user after utilizing a single film roll returns the camera system to a film development center for processing. The film roll is taken out of the camera system and processed and the prints returned to the user. The camera system can then be re manufactured through the insertion of a new film roll into the camera system the replacement of any worn or wearable parts and the re packaging of the camera system in accordance with requirements. In this way the concept of a single use disposable camera is provided to the consumer.

Recently a camera system has been proposed by the present applicant which provides for a handheld camera device having an internal print head image sensor and processing means such that images sense by the image sensing means are processed by the processing means and adapted to be instantly printed out by the printing means on demand. The proposed camera system further discloses a system of internal print rolls carrying print media such as film on to which images are to be printed in addition to ink to supplying the printing means for the printing process. The print roll is further disclosed to be detachable and replaceable within the camera system.

Unfortunately such a system is likely to only be constructed at a substantial cost and it would be desirable to provide for a more inexpensive form of instant camera system which maintains a substantial number of the quality aspects of the aforementioned arrangement.

It would be further advantageous to provide for the effective interconnection of the sub components of a camera system.

According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a printhead assembly for a camera system having a chassis and a platen assembly that is mountable on the chassis the platen assembly being configured to support passage of a print medium along a printing path the printhead assembly comprising

an ink reservoir assembly that is mountable on the chassis and defines at least three ink reservoirs in which differently colored inks are received the ink reservoir assembly defining an outlet 

a guide assembly that is positioned in the ink reservoir assembly to define at least three discrete ink paths that open at the outlet and

at least one printhead integrated circuit that is positioned in the outlet to span the printing path the or each printhead integrated circuit defining at least three sets of inlet apertures each set of inlet apertures being aligned with a respective ink path.

The ink reservoir assembly may define three ink reservoirs and the guide assembly may define three discrete ink paths.

Both the ink reservoir assembly and the guide assembly may be elongate to span the printing path. The ink reservoir assembly may include an elongate base member and an elongate cover member the cover member having a roof wall a pair of opposed side walls and a pair of spaced inner walls the side walls and the inner walls depending from the roof wall and being generally parallel to each other and the base member having a floor and a pair of opposed end walls and defining an elongate opening in which the printhead integrated circuits are mounted the guide assembly being interposed between lower ends of the inner walls and the floor.

The guide assembly may include a pair of guide walls that extend from respective lower ends of the inner walls inwardly towards the elongate opening to define the three distinct ink paths that terminate at respective sets of inlet apertures of the printhead integrated circuits.

One of the end walls may define a number of air inlet openings that are treated to be hydrophobic to permit the ingress of air into the ink reservoirs as ink is fed from the ink reservoirs and to inhibit the egress of ink.

A sponge like member may be positioned in each ink reservoir to store the ink while inhibiting agitation of ink during general use of the camera system.

In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is provided in a camera system comprising an image sensor device for sensing an image a processing means for processing the sensed image a print media supply means for the supply of print media to a print head a print head for printing the sensed image on the print media stored internally to the camera system a portable power supply interconnected to the print head the sensor and the processing means and a guillotine mechanism located between the print media supply means and the print head and adapted to cut the print media into sheets of a predetermined size.

Further preferably the guillotine mechanism is detachable from the camera system. The guillotine mechanism can be attached to the print media supply means and is detachable from the camera system with the print media supply means. The guillotine mechanism can be mounted on a platen unit below the print head.

Turning initially simultaneously to and there are illustrated perspective views of an assembled camera constructed in accordance with the preferred embodiment with showing a front perspective view and showing a rear perspective view. The camera includes a paper or plastic film jacket which can include simplified instructions for the operation of the camera system . The camera system includes a first take button which is depressed to capture an image. The captured image is output via output slot . A further copy of the image can be obtained through depressing a second printer copy button whilst an LED light is illuminated. The camera system also provides the usual view finder in addition to a CCD image capture lensing system .

The camera system provides for a standard number of output prints after which the camera system ceases to function. A prints left indicator slot is provided to indicate the number of remaining prints. A refund scheme at the point of purchase is assumed to be operational for the return of used camera systems for recycling.

Turning now to the assembly of the camera system is based around an internal chassis which can be a plastic injection molded part. A pair of paper pinch rollers utilized for decurling are snap fitted into corresponding frame holes eg. .

As shown in the chassis includes a series of mutually opposed prongs eg. into which is snapped fitted a series of electric motors . The electric motors can be entirely standard with the motor being of a stepper motor type. The motor include cogs for driving a series of gear wheels. A first set of gear wheels is provided for controlling a paper cutter mechanism and a second set is provided for controlling print roll movement.

Turning next to there is illustrated an ink supply mechanism utilized in the camera system. illustrates a back exploded perspective view illustrates a back assembled view and illustrates a front assembled view. The ink supply mechanism is based around an ink supply cartridge which contains printer ink and a print head mechanism for printing out pictures on demand. The ink supply cartridge includes a side aluminium strip which is provided as a shear strip to assist in cutting images from a paper roll.

A dial mechanism is provided for indicating the number of prints left . The dial mechanism is snap fitted through a corresponding mating portion so as to be freely rotatable.

As shown in the mechanism includes a flexible PCB strip which interconnects with the print head and provides for control of the print head. The interconnection between the Flex PCB strip and an image sensor and print head integrated circuit can be via Tape Automated Bonding TAB Strips . A moulded aspherical lens and aperture shim is also provided for imaging an image onto the surface of the image sensor integrated circuit normally located within cavity and a light box module or hood is provided for snap fitting over the cavity so as to provide for proper light control. A series of decoupling capacitors eg. can also be provided. Further a plug is provided for re plugging ink holes after refilling. A series of guide prongs eg. are further provided for guiding the flexible PCB strip .

The ink supply mechanism interacts with a platen unit which guides print media under a printhead located in the ink supply mechanism. shows an exploded view of the platen unit while show assembled views of the platen unit. The platen unit includes a first pinch roller which is snap fitted to one side of a platen base . Attached to a second side of the platen base is a cutting mechanism which traverses the platen unit by means of a rod having a screw thread which is rotated by means of cogged wheel which is also fitted to the platen base . The screw threaded rod mounts a block which includes a cutting wheel fastened via a fastener . Also mounted to the block is a counter actuator which includes a pawl . The pawl acts to rotate the dial mechanism of upon the return traversal of the cutting wheel. As shown previously in the dial mechanism includes a cogged surface which interacts with pawl thereby maintaining a count of the number of photographs by means of numbers embossed on the surface of dial mechanism . The cutting mechanism is inserted into the platen base by means of a snap fit via clips .

The platen unit includes an internal recapping mechanism for recapping the print head when not in use. The recapping mechanism includes a sponge portion and is operated via a solenoid coil so as to provide for recapping of the print head. In the preferred embodiment there is provided an inexpensive form of printhead re capping mechanism provided for incorporation into a handheld camera system so as to provide for printhead re capping of an inkjet printhead.

A second moveable arm of the solenoid actuator is also provided. The arm is moveable and is also made of ferrous material. Mounted on the arm is a sponge portion surrounded by an elastomer strip . The elastomer strip is of a generally arcuate cross section and act as a leaf spring against the surface of the printhead ink supply cartridge so as to provide for a seal against the surface of the printhead ink supply cartridge . In the quiescent position an elastomer spring unit acts to resiliently deform the elastomer seal against the surface of the ink supply unit .

When it is desired to operate the printhead unit upon the insertion of paper the solenoid coil is activated so as to cause the arm to move down to be adjacent to the end plate . The arm is held against end plate while the printhead is printing by means of a small keeper current in coil . Simulation results indicate that the keeper current can be significantly less than the actuation current. Subsequently after photo printing the paper is guillotined by the cutting mechanism of acting against Aluminium Strip and rewound so as to clear the area of the re capping mechanism . Subsequently the current is turned off and springs return the arm so that the elastomer seal is again resting against the printhead ink supply cartridge.

It can be seen that the preferred embodiment provides for a simple and inexpensive means of re capping a printhead through the utilisation of a solenoid type device having a long rectangular form. Further the preferred embodiment utilises minimal power in that currents are only required whilst the device is operational and additionally only a low keeper current is required whilst the printhead is printing.

Turning next to illustrates an exploded perspective of the ink supply cartridge whilst illustrates a close up sectional view of a bottom of the ink supply cartridge with the printhead unit in place. The ink supply cartridge is based around a pagewidth printhead which comprises a long slither of silicon having a series of holes etched on the back surface for the supply of ink to a front surface of the silicon wafer for subsequent ejection via a micro electro mechanical system. The form of ejection can be many different forms such as those set out in the tables below.

Of course many other inkjet technologies as referred to the attached tables below can also be utilised when constructing a printhead unit . The fundamental requirement of the ink supply cartridge is the supply of ink to a series of colour channels etched through the back surface of the printhead . In the description of the preferred embodiment it is assumed that a three colour printing process is to be utilised so as to provide full colour picture output. Hence the print supply unit includes three ink supply reservoirs being a cyan reservoir a magenta reservoir and a yellow reservoir . Each of these reservoirs is required to store ink and includes a corresponding sponge type material which assists in stabilising ink within the corresponding ink channel and inhibiting the ink from sloshing back and forth when the printhead is utilised in a handheld camera system. The reservoirs are formed through the mating of first exterior plastic piece and a second base piece .

At a first end of the base piece a series of air inlet are provided. Each air inlet leads to a corresponding winding channel which is hydrophobically treated so as to act as an ink repellent and therefore repel any ink that may flow along the air inlet channel. The air inlet channel further takes a convoluted path assisting in resisting any ink flow out of the chambers . An adhesive tape portion is provided for sealing the channels within end portion .

At the top end there is included a series of refill holes not shown for refilling corresponding ink supply chambers . A plug is provided for sealing the refill holes.

Turning now to there is illustrated a close up perspective view partly in section through the ink supply cartridge of when formed as a unit. The ink supply cartridge includes the three colour ink reservoirs which supply ink to different portions of the back surface of printhead which includes a series of apertures defined therein for carriage of the ink to the front surface.

The ink supply cartridge includes two guide walls which separate the various ink chambers and are tapered into an end portion abutting the surface of the printhead . The guide walls are further mechanically supported by block portions eg. which are placed at regular intervals along the length of the ink supply unit. The block portions leave space at portions close to the back of printhead for the flow of ink around the back surface thereof.

The ink supply unit is preferably formed from a multi part plastic injection mould and the mould pieces eg. snap together around the sponge pieces . Subsequently a syringe type device can be inserted in the ink refill holes and the ink reservoirs filled with ink with the air flowing out of the air outlets . Subsequently the adhesive tape portion and plug are attached and the printhead tested for operation capabilities. Subsequently the ink supply cartridge can be readily removed for refilling by means of removing the ink supply cartridge performing a washing cycle and then utilising the holes for the insertion of a refill syringe filled with ink for refilling the ink chamber before returning the ink supply cartridge to a camera.

Turning now to there is shown an example layout of the Image Capture and Processing integrated circuit ICP .

The Image Capture and Processing integrated circuit provides most of the electronic functionality of the camera with the exception of the print head integrated circuit. The integrated circuit is a highly integrated system. It combines CMOS image sensing analog to digital conversion digital image processing DRAM storage ROM and miscellaneous control functions in a single integrated circuit.

The integrated circuit is estimated to be around 32 mmusing a leading edge 0.18 micron CMOS DRAM APS process. The integrated circuit size and cost can scale somewhat with Moore s law but is dominated by a CMOS active pixel sensor array so scaling is limited as the sensor pixels approach the diffraction limit.

The ICP includes CMOS logic a CMOS image sensor DRAM and analog circuitry. A very small amount of flash memory or other non volatile memory is also preferably included for protection against reverse engineering.

Alternatively the ICP can readily be divided into two integrated circuits one for the CMOS imaging array and the other for the remaining circuitry. The cost of this two integrated circuit solution should not be significantly different than the single integrated circuit ICP as the extra cost of packaging and bond pad area is somewhat cancelled by the reduced total wafer area requiring the color filter fabrication steps.

The CPU DRAM Image sensor ROM Flash memory Parallel interface JTAG interface and ADC can be vendor supplied cores. The ICP is intended to run on 1.5V to minimize power consumption and allow convenient operation from two AA type battery cells.

The latest advances in the field of image sensing and CMOS image sensing in particular can be found in the October 1997 issue of IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices and in particular pages 1689 to 1968. Further a specific implementation similar to that disclosed in the present application is disclosed in Wong et. al CMOS Active Pixel Image Sensors Fabricated Using a 1.8V 0.25 m CMOS Technology IEDM 1996 page 915

The imaging array uses a 4 transistor active pixel design of a standard configuration. To minimize integrated circuit area and therefore cost the image sensor pixels should be as small as feasible with the technology available. With a four transistor cell the typical pixel size scales as 20 times the lithographic feature size. This allows a minimum pixel area of around 3.6 m 3.6 m. However the photosite must be substantially above the diffraction limit of the lens. It is also advantageous to have a square photosite to maximize the margin over the diffraction limit in both horizontal and vertical directions. In this case the photosite can be specified as 2.5 m 2.5 m. The photosite can be a photogate pinned photodiode charge modulation device or other sensor.

The four transistors are packed as an L shape rather than a rectangular region to allow both the pixel and the photosite to be square. This reduces the transistor packing density slightly increasing pixel size. However the advantage in avoiding the diffraction limit is greater than the small decrease in packing density.

The transistors also have a gate length which is longer than the minimum for the process technology. These have been increased from a drawn length of 0.18 micron to a drawn length of 0.36 micron. This is to improve the transistor matching by making the variations in gate length represent a smaller proportion of the total gate length.

The extra gate length and the L shaped packing mean that the transistors use more area than the minimum for the technology. Normally around 8 mwould be required for rectangular packing. Preferably 9.75 mhas been allowed for the transistors.

The total area for each pixel is 16 m resulting from a pixel size of 4 m 4 m. With a resolution of 1 500 1 000 the area of the imaging array is 6 000 m 4 000 m or 24 mm.

The presence of a color image sensor on the integrated circuit affects the process required in two major ways 

Color filters are required. These can be fabricated using dyed photosensitive polyimides resulting in an added process complexity of three spin coatings three photolithographic steps three development steps and three hardbakes.

There are 15 000 analog signal processors ASPs one for each of the columns of the sensor. The ASPs amplify the signal provide a dark current reference sample and hold the signal and suppress the fixed pattern noise FPN .

There are 375 analog to digital converters one for each four columns of the sensor array. These may be delta sigma or successive approximation type ADC s. A row of low column ADC s are used to reduce the conversion speed required and the amount of analog signal degradation incurred before the signal is converted to digital. This also eliminates the hot spot affecting local dark current and the substrate coupled noise that would occur if a single high speed ADC was used. Each ADC also has two four bit DAC s which trim the offset and scale of the ADC to further reduce FPN variations between columns. These DAC s are controlled by data stored in flash memory during integrated circuit testing.

The column select logic is a 1 1500 decoder which enables the appropriate digital output of the ADCs onto the output bus. As each ADC is shared by four columns the least significant two bits of the row select control input analog multiplexors.

A row decoder is a 1 1000 decoder which enables the appropriate row of the active pixel sensor array. This selects which of the 1000 rows of the imaging array is connected to analog signal processors. As the rows are always accessed in sequence the row select logic can be implemented as a shift register.

An auto exposure system adjusts the reference voltage of the ADC in response to the maximum intensity sensed during the previous frame period. Data from the green pixels is passed through a digital peak detector. The peak value of the image frame period before capture the reference frame is provided to a digital to analogue converter DAC which generates the global reference voltage for the column ADCs. The peak detector is reset at the beginning of the reference frame. The minimum and maximum values of the three RGB color components are also collected for color correction.

The second largest section of the integrated circuit is consumed by a DRAM used to hold the image. To store the 1 500 1 000 image from the sensor without compression 1.5 Mbytes of DRAM are required. This equals 12 Mbits or slightly less than 5 of a 256 Mbit DRAM. The DRAM technology assumed is of the 256 Mbit generation implemented using 0.18 m CMOS.

Using a standard 8F cell the area taken by the memory array is 3.11 mm. When row decoders column sensors redundancy and other factors are taken into account the DRAM requires around 4 mm.

This DRAM can be mostly eliminated if analog storage of the image signal can be accurately maintained in the CMOS imaging array for the two seconds required to print the photo. However digital storage of the image is preferable as it is maintained without degradation is insensitive to noise and allows copies of the photo to be printed considerably later.

A DRAM address generator provides the write and read addresses to the DRAM . Under normal operation the write address is determined by the order of the data read from the CMOS image sensor . This will typically be a simple raster format. However the data can be read from the sensor in any order if matching write addresses to the DRAM are generated. The read order from the DRAM will normally simply match the requirements of a color interpolator and the print head. As the cyan magenta and yellow rows of the print head are necessarily offset by a few pixels to allow space for nozzle actuators the colors are not read from the DRAM simultaneously. However there is plenty of time to read all of the data from the DRAM many times during the printing process. This capability is used to eliminate the need for FIFOs in the print head interface thereby saving integrated circuit area. All three RGB image components can be read from the DRAM each time color data is required. This allows a color space converter to provide a more sophisticated conversion than a simple linear RGB to CMY conversion.

Also to allow two dimensional filtering of the image data without requiring line buffers data is re read from the DRAM array.

The address generator may also implement image effects in certain models of camera. For example passport photos are generated by a manipulation of the read addresses to the DRAM. Also image framing effects where the central image is reduced image warps and kaleidoscopic effects can all be generated by manipulating the read addresses of the DRAM.

While the address generator may be implemented with substantial complexity if effects are built into the standard integrated circuit the integrated circuit area required for the address generator is small as it consists only of address counters and a moderate amount of random logic.

A color interpolator converts the interleaved pattern of red 2 green and blue pixels into RGB pixels. It consists of three 8 bit adders and associated registers. The divisions are by either 2 for green or 4 for red and blue so they can be implemented as fixed shifts in the output connections of the adders.

A convolver is provided as a sharpening filter which applies a small convolution kernel 5 5 to the red green and blue planes of the image. The convolution kernel for the green plane is different from that of the red and blue planes as green has twice as many samples. The sharpening filter has five functions 

These functions are all combined into a single convolution matrix. As the pixel rate is low less than 1 Mpixel per second the total number of multiplies required for the three color channels is 56 million multiplies per second. This can be provided by a single multiplier. Fifty bytes of coefficient ROM are also required.

A color ALU combines the functions of color compensation and color space conversion into the one matrix multiplication which is applied to every pixel of the frame. As with sharpening the color correction should match the most popular settings rather than the most accurate.

A color compensation circuit of the color ALU provides compensation for the lighting of the photo. The vast majority of photographs are substantially improved by a simple color compensation which independently normalizes the contrast and brightness of the three color components.

A color look up table CLUT is provided for each color component. These are three separate 256 8 SRAMs requiring a total of 6 144 bits. The CLUTs are used as part of the color correction process. They are also used for color special effects such as stochastically selected wild color effects.

A color space conversion system of the color ALU converts from the RGB color space of the image sensor to the CMY color space of the printer. The simplest conversion is a 1 s complement of the RGB data. However this simple conversion assumes perfect linearity of both color spaces and perfect dye spectra for both the color filters of the image sensor and the ink dyes. At the other extreme is a tri linear interpolation of a sampled three dimensional arbitrary transform table. This can effectively match any non linearity or differences in either color space. Such a system is usually necessary to obtain good color space conversion when the print engine is a color electrophotographic

However since the non linearity of a halftoned ink jet output is very small a simpler system can be used. A simple matrix multiply can provide excellent results. This requires nine multiplies and six additions per contone pixel. However since the contone pixel rate is low less than 1 Mpixel sec these operations can share a single multiplier and adder. The multiplier and adder are used in a color ALU which is shared with the color compensation function.

Digital halftoning can be performed as a dispersed dot ordered dither using a stochastic optimized dither cell. A halftone matrix ROM is provided for storing dither cell coefficients. A dither cell size of 32 32 is adequate to ensure that the cell repeat cycle is not visible. The three colors cyan magenta and yellow are all dithered using the same cell to ensure maximum co positioning of the ink dots. This minimizes muddying of the mid tones which results from bleed of dyes from one dot to adjacent dots while still wet. The total ROM size required is 1 KByte as the one ROM is shared by the halftoning units for each of the three colors.

The digital halftoning used is dispersed dot ordered dither with stochastic optimized dither matrix. While dithering does not produce an image quite as sharp as error diffusion it does produce a more accurate image with fewer artifacts. The image sharpening produced by error diffusion is artificial and less controllable and accurate than unsharp mask filtering performed in the contone domain. The high print resolution 1 600 dpi 1 600 dpi results in excellent quality when using a well formed stochastic dither matrix.

Digital halftoning is performed by a digital halftoning unit using a simple comparison between the contone information from the DRAM and the contents of the dither matrix . During the halftone process the resolution of the image is changed from the 250 dpi of the captured contone image to the 1 600 dpi of the printed image. Each contone pixel is converted to an average of 40.96 halftone dots.

The ICP incorporates a 16 bit microcontroller CPU core to run the miscellaneous camera functions such as reading the buttons controlling the motor and solenoids setting up the hardware and authenticating the refill station. The processing power required by the CPU is very modest and a wide variety of processor cores can be used. As the entire CPU program is run from a small ROM program compatibility between camera versions is not important as no external programs are run. A 2 Mbit 256 Kbyte program and data ROM is included on integrated circuit. Most of this ROM space is allocated to data for outline graphics and fonts for specialty cameras. The program requirements are minor. The single most complex task is the encrypted authentication of the refill station. The ROM requires a single transistor per bit.

A Flash memory may be used to store a 128 bit authentication code. This provides higher security than storage of the authentication code in ROM as reverse engineering can be made essentially impossible. The Flash memory is completely covered by third level metal making the data impossible to extract using scanning probe microscopes or electron beams. The authentication code is stored in the integrated circuit when manufactured. At least two other Flash bits are required for the authentication process a bit which locks out reprogramming of the authentication code and a bit which indicates that the camera has been refilled by an authenticated refill station. The flash memory can also be used to store FPN correction data for the imaging array. Additionally a phase locked loop rescaling parameter is stored for scaling the clocking cycle to an appropriate correct time. The clock frequency does not require crystal accuracy since no date functions are provided. To eliminate the cost of a crystal an on integrated circuit oscillator with a phase locked loop is used. As the frequency of an on integrated circuit oscillator is highly variable from integrated circuit to integrated circuit the frequency ratio of the oscillator to the PLL is digitally trimmed during initial testing. The value is stored in Flash memory . This allows the clock PLL to control the ink jet heater pulse width with sufficient accuracy.

A scratchpad SRAM is a small static RAM with a 6T cell. The scratchpad provided temporary memory for the 16 bit CPU. 1024 bytes is adequate.

A print head interface formats the data correctly for the print head. The print head interface also provides all of the timing signals required by the print head. These timing signals may vary depending upon temperature the number of dots printed simultaneously the print medium in the print roll and the dye density of the ink in the print roll.

The print head utilized is composed of eight identical segments each 1.25 cm long. There is no connection between the segments on the print head integrated circuit. Any connections required are made in the external TAB bonding film which is double sided. The division into eight identical segments is to simplify lithography using wafer steppers. The segment width of 1.25 cm fits easily into a stepper field. As the print head integrated circuit is long and narrow 10 cm 0.3 mm the stepper field contains a single segment of 32 print head integrated circuits. The stepper field is therefore 1.25 cm 1.6 cm. An average of four complete print heads are patterned in each wafer step.

A single BitClock output line connects to all 8 segments on the print head. The 8 DataBits lines lead one to each segment and are clocked into the 8 segments on the print head simultaneously on a BitClock pulse . For example dot is transferred to segments dot is transferred to segment dot to segmentetc simultaneously.

The ParallelXferClock is connected to each of the 8 segments on the print head so that on a single pulse all segments transfer their bits at the same time.

The NozzleSelect BankEnable and ColorEnable lines are connected to each of the 8 segments allowing the print head interface to independently control the duration of the cyan magenta and yellow nozzle energizing pulses. Registers in the Print Head Interface allow the accurate specification of the pulse duration between 0 and 6 ms with a typical duration of 2 ms to 3 ms.

A parallel interface connects the ICP to individual static electrical signals. The CPU is able to control each of these connections as memory mapped I O via a low speed bus.

Seven high current drive transistors eg. are required. Four are for the four phases of the main stepper motor two are for the guillotine motor and the remaining transistor is to drive the capping solenoid. These transistors are allocated 20 000 square microns 600 000 F each. As the transistors are driving highly inductive loads they must either be turned off slowly or be provided with a high level of back EMF protection. If adequate back EMF protection cannot be provided using the integrated circuit process chosen then external discrete transistors should be used. The transistors are never driven at the same time as the image sensor is used. This is to avoid voltage fluctuations and hot spots affecting the image quality. Further the transistors are located as far away from the sensor as possible.

A standard JTAG Joint Test Action Group interface is included in the ICP for testing purposes and for interrogation by the refill station. Due to the complexity of the integrated circuit a variety of testing techniques are required including BIST Built In Self Test and functional block isolation. An overhead of 10 in integrated circuit area is assumed for integrated circuit testing circuitry for the random logic portions. The overhead for the large arrays the image sensor and the DRAM is smaller.

The JTAG interface is also used for authentication of the refill station. This is included to ensure that the cameras are only refilled with quality paper and ink at a properly constructed refill station thus preventing inferior quality refills from occurring. The camera must authenticate the refill station rather than vice versa. The secure protocol is communicated to the refill station during the automated test procedure. Contact is made to four gold plated spots on the ICP print head TAB by the refill station as the new ink is injected into the print head.

Turning now to the assembly of the camera system proceeds via first assembling the ink supply mechanism . The flex PCB is interconnected with batteries only one of which is shown which are inserted in the middle portion of a print roll which is wrapped around a plastic former . An end cap is provided at the other end of the print roll so as to fasten the print roll and batteries firmly to the ink supply mechanism.

The solenoid coil is interconnected not shown to interconnects which include leaf spring ends for interconnection with electrical contacts on the Flex PCB so as to provide for electrical control of the solenoid.

Turning now to the next step in the construction process is the insertion of the relevant gear trains into the side of the camera chassis. illustrates a front view illustrates a rear view and also illustrates a rear view. The first gear train comprising gear wheels is utilised for driving the guillotine blade with the gear wheel engaging the gear wheel of . The second gear train comprising gear wheels and engage one end of the print roller of . As best indicated in the gear wheels mate with corresponding pins on the surface of the chassis with the gear wheel being snap fitted into corresponding mating hole .

Next as illustrated in the assembled platen unit is then inserted between the print roll and aluminium cutting blade .

Turning now to by way of illumination there is illustrated the electrically interactive components of the camera system. As noted previously the components are based around a Flex PCB board and include a TAB film which interconnects the printhead with the image sensor and processing integrated circuit . Power is supplied by two AA type batteries and a paper drive stepper motor is provided in addition to a rotary guillotine motor .

An optical element is provided for snapping into a top portion of the chassis . The optical element includes portions defining an optical view finder which are slotted into mating portions in view finder channel . Also provided in the optical element is a lensing system for magnification of the prints left number in addition to an optical pipe element for piping light from the LED for external display.

Turning next to the assembled unit is then inserted into a front outer case which includes button for activation of printouts.

Turning now to next the unit is provided with a snap on back cover which includes a slot and copy print button . A wrapper label containing instructions and advertising not shown is then wrapped around the outer surface of the camera system and pinch clamped to the cover by means of clamp strip which can comprise a flexible plastic or rubber strip.

Subsequently the preferred embodiment is ready for use as a one time use camera system that provides for instant output images on demand. It will be evident that the preferred embodiment further provides for a refillable camera system. A used camera can be collected and its outer plastic cases removed and recycled. A new paper roll and batteries can be added and the ink cartridge refilled. A series of automatic test routines can then be carried out to ensure that the printer is properly operational. Further in order to ensure only authorised refills are conducted so as to enhance quality routines in the on integrated circuit program ROM can be executed such that the camera authenticates the refilling station using a secure protocol. Upon authentication the camera can reset an internal paper count and an external case can be fitted on the camera system with a new outer label. Subsequent packing and shipping can then take place.

It will be further readily evident to those skilled in the art that the program ROM can be modified so as to allow for a variety of digital processing routines. In addition to the digitally enhanced photographs optimised for mainstream consumer preferences various other models can readily be provided through mere re programming of the program ROM. For example a sepia classic old fashion style output can be provided through a remapping of the colour mapping function. A further alternative is to provide for black and white outputs again through a suitable colour remapping algorithm. Minimum colour can also be provided to add a touch of colour to black and white prints to produce the effect that was traditionally used to colourize black and white photos. Further passport photo output can be provided through suitable address remappings within the address generators. Further edge filters can be utilised as is known in the field of image processing to produce sketched art styles. Further classic wedding borders and designs can be placed around an output image in addition to the provision of relevant clip arts. For example a wedding style camera might be provided. Further a panoramic mode can be provided so as to output the well known panoramic format of images. Further a postcard style output can be provided through the printing of postcards including postage on the back of a print roll surface. Further cliparts can be provided for special events such as Halloween Christmas etc. Further kaleidoscopic effects can be provided through address remappings and wild colour effects can be provided through remapping of the colour lookup table. Many other forms of special event cameras can be provided for example cameras dedicated to the Olympics movie tie ins advertising and other special events.

The operational mode of the camera can be programmed so that upon the depressing of the take photo a first image is sampled by the sensor array to determine irrelevant parameters. Next a second image is again captured which is utilised for the output. The captured image is then manipulated in accordance with any special requirements before being initially output on the paper roll. The LED light is then activated for a predetermined time during which the DRAM is refreshed so as to retain the image. If the print copy button is depressed during this predetermined time interval a further copy of the photo is output. After the predetermined time interval where no use of the camera has occurred the onboard CPU shuts down all power to the camera system until such time as the take button is again activated. In this way substantial power savings can be realized.

The embodiments of the invention use an ink jet printer type device. Of course many different devices could be used. However presently popular ink jet printing technologies are unlikely to be suitable.

The most significant problem with thermal inkjet is power consumption. This is approximately 100 times that required for high speed and stems from the energy inefficient means of drop ejection. This involves the rapid boiling of water to produce a vapor bubble which expels the ink. Water has a very high heat capacity and must be superheated in thermal inkjet applications. This leads to an efficiency of around 0.02 from electricity input to drop momentum and increased surface area out.

The most significant problem with piezoelectric inkjet is size and cost. Piezoelectric crystals have a very small deflection at reasonable drive voltages and therefore require a large area for each nozzle. Also each piezoelectric actuator must be connected to its drive circuit on a separate substrate. This is not a significant problem at the current limit of around 300 nozzles per print head but is a major impediment to the fabrication of pagewide print heads with 19 200 nozzles.

Ideally the inkjet technologies used meet the stringent requirements of in camera digital color printing and other high quality high speed low cost printing applications. To meet the requirements of digital photography new inkjet technologies have been created. The target features include 

All of these features can be met or exceeded by the inkjet systems described below with differing levels of difficulty. 45 different inkjet technologies have been developed by the Assignee to give a wide range of choices for high volume manufacture. These technologies form part of separate applications assigned to the present Assignee as set out in the table below.

The inkjet designs shown here are suitable for a wide range of digital printing systems from battery powered one time use digital cameras through to desktop and network printers and through to commercial printing systems

For ease of manufacture using standard process equipment the print head is designed to be a monolithic 0.5 micron CMOS integrated circuit with MEMS post processing. For color photographic applications the print head is 100 mm long with a width which depends upon the inkjet type. The smallest print head designed is IJ38 which is 0.35 mm wide giving a integrated circuit area of 35 square mm. The print heads each contain 19 200 nozzles plus data and control circuitry.

Ink is supplied to the back of the print head by injection molded plastic ink channels. The molding requires 50 micron features which can be created using a lithographically micromachined insert in a standard injection molding tool. Ink flows through holes etched through the wafer to the nozzle chambers fabricated on the front surface of the wafer. The print head is connected to the camera circuitry by tape automated bonding.

The following table is a guide to cross referenced patent applications filed concurrently herewith and discussed hereinafter with the reference being utilized in subsequent tables when referring to a particular case 

Eleven important characteristics of the fundamental operation of individual inkjet nozzles have been identified. These characteristics are largely orthogonal and so can be elucidated as an eleven dimensional matrix. Most of the eleven axes of this matrix include entries developed by the present assignee.

The complete eleven dimensional table represented by these axes contains 36.9 billion possible configurations of inkjet nozzle. While not all of the possible combinations result in a viable inkjet technology many million configurations are viable. It is clearly impractical to elucidate all of the possible configurations. Instead certain inkjet types have been investigated in detail. These are designated IJ01 to IJ45 above.

Other inkjet configurations can readily be derived from these 45 examples by substituting alternative configurations along one or more of the 11 axes. Most of the IJ01 to IJ45 examples can be made into inkjet print heads with characteristics superior to any currently available inkjet technology.

Where there are prior art examples known to the inventor one or more of these examples are listed in the examples column of the tables below. The IJ01 to IJ45 series are also listed in the examples column. In some cases a printer may be listed more than once in a table where it shares characteristics with more than one entry.

Suitable applications include Home printers Office network printers Short run digital printers Commercial print systems Fabric printers Pocket printers Internet WWW printers Video printers Medical imaging Wide format printers Notebook PC printers Fax machines Industrial printing systems Photocopiers Photographic minilabs etc.

The information associated with the aforementioned dimensional matrix are set out in the following tables.

A large number of new forms of ink jet printers have been developed to facilitate alternative ink jet technologies for the image processing and data distribution system. Various combinations of ink jet devices can be included in printer devices incorporated as part of the present invention. Australian Provisional Patent Applications relating to these ink jets which are specifically incorporated by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

Further the present application may utilize advanced semiconductor fabrication techniques in the construction of large arrays of ink jet printers. Suitable manufacturing techniques are described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

Further the present application may utilize an ink delivery system to the ink jet head. Delivery systems relating to the supply of ink to a series of ink jet nozzles are described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications the disclosure of which are hereby incorporated by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

Further the present application may utilize advanced semiconductor microelectromechanical techniques in the construction of large arrays of ink jet printers. Suitable microelectromechanical techniques are described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

Further the present application may include the utilization of a disposable camera system such as those described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

Further the present application may include the utilization of a data distribution system such as that described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

Further the present application may include the utilization of camera and data processing techniques such as an Artcam type device as described in the following Australian provisional patent specifications incorporated here by cross reference. The serial numbers of respective corresponding US patent applications are also provided for the sake of convenience.

