---

title: Method and system for prefetching internet content for video recorders
abstract: A method and system for providing information related to content accessed by a user of an electronic device is provided. An implementation involves determining content of interest to the user for access via an electronic device; obtaining metadata for said content; prefetching information related to said metadata; upon detecting availability of further metadata for said content, prefetching additional information related to said further metadata; and upon access to the content by the user via the electronic device, selectively providing the prefetched information to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332414&OS=08332414&RS=08332414
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08332414
owner_city: Suwon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20080701
---
The present invention relates to video recording and playback and in particular to video recording with related video suggestion lists on personal video recorder PVR devices.

Video recording and playback devices have been developed on many Personal Video Recorder PVR set top boxes. PVRs cannot search for any video streams in a database e.g. local content databases in the Internet etc. that are related to a currently watched program. PVRs can only record video streams without the ability to record related information. Further PVRs cannot suggest any pre recorded video stream that is related to a currently viewed video stream. Further PVRs do not allow viewing Internet content related to a TV program seamlessly. Internet content viewing relies on the Internet Protocol IP which is sensitive to packet loss and delays from various high traffic web servers.

The present invention provides a method and system for providing information related to content accessed by a user of an electronic device. One embodiment involves determining content of interest to the user for access via an electronic device obtaining metadata for said content prefetching information related to said metadata upon detecting availability of further metadata for said content prefetching additional information related to said further metadata and upon access to the content by the user via the electronic device selectively providing the prefetched information to the user.

Determining content of interest to the user may include determining content selected by the user to be recorded on a personal video recorder PVR . Obtaining metadata for said content may include obtaining electronic program guide information for the selected content. Prefetching information related to said metadata may include prefetching information related to the electronic program guide information for the selected content from external and or local sources electronic program guide information for the selected content. Prefetching additional information may further include upon detecting availability of closed caption information for the selected content prefetching additional information related to the closed caption information. Prefetching information may further include upon access to the selected content on the PVR by the user selectively displaying the prefetched information to the user. Prefetching information may further include providing the prefetched information to the user essentially at the same time as user access to the said content thereby reducing latency in providing related information to the user.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become understood with reference to the following description appended claims and accompanying figures.

The present invention provides a method and system for providing information related to content accessed by a user of an electronic device. One embodiment involves determining content of interest to the user for access via an electronic device obtaining metadata for said content prefetching information related to said metadata upon detecting availability of further metadata for said content prefetching additional information related to said further metadata and upon access to the content by the user via the electronic device selectively providing the prefetched information to the user.

Determining content of interest to the user may include determining content selected by the user to be recorded on a personal video recorder PVR . Obtaining metadata for said content may include obtaining electronic program guide information for the selected content. Prefetching information related to said metadata may include prefetching information related to the electronic program guide information for the selected content from external and or local sources electronic program guide information for the selected content. Prefetching additional information may further include upon detecting availability of closed caption information for the selected content prefetching additional information related to the closed caption information. Prefetching information may further include upon access to the selected content on the PVR by the user selectively displaying the prefetched information to the user. Prefetching information may further include providing the prefetched information to the user essentially at the same time as the user access to the said content thereby reducing latency in providing related information to the user.

One implementation employs a client side approach of prefetching contents that are related to recorded audio visual A V programming e.g. TV cable program being recorded. In one example the client side represents an electronic device receiving A V programming. A list of Internet content is compiled based on metadata for the programming such metadata including one or more of Electronic Program Guide EPG of a PVR system Event Information Table EIT Advanced Television Systems Committee Program and System Information Protocol ATSC PSIP closed captioning CC embedded in the programming.

The client side approach does not require changes to network topography for implementation. In the example described below metadata e.g. EPG subtitle CC data for TV cable programming are used to select related internet content to be downloaded. The metadata is obtained from user scheduled recordings of TV cable programming leading to selection and download of Internet content such e.g. videos that are related to the TV cable programming. The selected Internet content that is related to said TV cable programming of interest to the user is referred to as related internet content herein the related internet content is of potential interest to the user . The download involves prefetching the related internet content to local storage at the client side. The prefetched content is displayed to the user from the local storage. Further prefetch storage configuration is provided to enable the user to configure the local storage size for different interests and related internet content.

The system further includes a Recorder module that comprises a Video Recorder a Caption Recorder and a Metadata Recorder . The Video Recorder records a requested video stream onto a storage module e.g. disk drive memory etc. . In one example the Video Recorder includes a hardware MPEG encoder chip for video encoding to a format that the PVR can playback.

The Caption Recorder selectively records the text captured from the CC or subtitles in the incoming video stream of the Input Signal. The Caption Recorder receives retrieved information from the module for recording. The Caption Recorder also receives information extracted by a Keyword and Phrase Extractor module described further below for recording. Recording such information enables local video searching for compiling internet search queries or a related video suggestion list from the Internet for the user viewer.

The Metadata Recorder records metadata for the input video stream. In one example such metadata includes information related to the video stream e.g. from Electronic Program Guide EPG or either from the EIT in the ATSC PSIP or from third party metadata aggregators such as Tribune TV Data or Gemstar TV Guide . This related information should include but is not limited to the video stream channel name its description its types genres its length its series etc. The Recorder associates the related metadata with the recorded stream. Associating the video stream and its metadata may involve providing each video stream recording request with a unique directory in which recorded video stream and its metadata e.g. closed captions EPG information reside as identifiable files.

The system further includes a Keyword and Phrase Extractor module that responds to user requests received via the Controller module and accesses text buffered in the Closed Captions and Subtitles Capture module to extract keywords and phrases related to the user request. Per request the module accesses the buffered text in the Closed Caption Capture component to extract keywords and phrases. A user request can be based on the information in the EPG or other relevant information metadata for the programming being recorded. For keyword extraction by the module information of potential interest to the viewer is determined by monitoring viewer interactions with the TV or the PVR . Important words and phrases from the closed captions are identified as keywords. For example when the user is watching recording TV programming it is likely that the viewer is interested in the content of the TV programming. The content of the TV programming is determined by analyzing metadata such as text of CC for that TV programming. Further context can be gathered from the information about the channel being watched. Such information can be combined to make recommendations for potential topics of interest to the user.

For example if the user is watching news coverage involving Baltimore the word Baltimore is extracted by the module as a keyword. This is achieved by transforming corresponding closed captions and or subtitles into text using well known transformation methods . Then stop words in the text are removed. Stop words are words like of on the etc. which have no meaning by themselves. Then the words in the remaining text and their frequency occurrence are recorded. The record of words are reset as soon as the channel is changed or a topic change is discovered using special characters in the text obtained from the closed captions. The text can sometimes contain case information. For example proper nouns start with uppercase letters. On other occasions the text is case insensitive. When case information is absent proper nouns are obtained by comparing each word against words in a dictionary that includes words that are not proper nouns. If a word under consideration is not present in the dictionary then it is assumed to be a proper noun. Proper nouns convey useful contextual information as they refer to specific names of people places or things. Words identified as proper nouns are therefore tagged.

When case information is present proper nouns are detected based on the case of the first character of each word. Proper nouns are tagged so that they can be detected later. At any given instant words identified within an n second window i.e. words received within an n second period of time which may be the last n seconds and their frequencies and proper noun related information are maintained. For example an n 10 second window means that the words were gathered in the past 10 seconds. The frequency of all words is used to extract words i.e. keywords of interest from all words gathered from the past n seconds for the user. For example when the user activates a specific button on e.g. a GUI and or a TV remote control for a user request e.g. action by a user such as clicking on a button the words in the last n seconds are set aside as the words of most importance. The frequency of each of the words set aside is checked and each word is ranked based on its frequency. A rank is assigned to each word proportional to its frequency. Each word is also checked to determine if it is a proper noun using the tag generated above. A ranked list is produced where high frequency words and proper nouns occupy the top of the list. The top i words from the ranked list along with proper nouns and high frequency words identified since the start of the TV program capture the context of what the user is watching as keywords. Words captured in the n second window capture the context at a fine level of detail whereas the proper nouns and high frequency words captured since the start of the program capture the context at a higher level. Other examples of identifying important keywords and phrases from the CC are possible and contemplated by the present invention. For example Natural Language Processing techniques can be used for part of speech analysis. Other examples of keyword extraction can be implemented. The module performs metadata extraction e.g. using similar steps to extract keywords and phrases from metadata associated with the currently watched program.

The system further includes an Internet Video Search module that handles internet search for related internet content. Search queries applied to this module are formed with keywords and phrases extracted from the metadata of the currently viewed recorded programming. The Internet Video Search module processes Internet search queries for information e.g. video related to the programming. The queries include keywords and phrases extracted from the metadata of the program. The Internet Video Search module accesses search engines on the Internet to perform the search and acquire results. Each search engine may have a different set of application programming interfaces APIs for web search capabilities. Preferably the Internet Video Search module supports access to essentially all manor search engines and provide plug in mechanisms for extending to new search engines.

The system further includes a Content Prefetch Agent that is alerted by the system Controller to pre fetch related internet content specified by a user Prefetch Configuration . To begin a pre fetch task from the system Controller the Control Prefetch Agent first accesses the EPG information of the TV programming being recorded. This EPG information is available from the basic PVR subsystems. The Content Prefetch Agent then continually obtains keyword lists from the Keyword and Phrase Extractor . With the information from the EPG and keywords as new keyword lists are generated by the Keyword and Phrase extractor when the Recorder records TV programs with CC the Content Prefetch Agent continually issues search queries for related internet content e.g. related video to the Internet Video Search component . Then for each related video search result the Content Prefetch Agent checks with the Prefetch Video Database component for pre fetched identical video that has been downloaded. If the video has not been downloaded and if storage space is still within that specified by the user the Agent creates a new download task request for a download process pool to download the related video for the programming being recorded.

The Prefetch Video Database module maintains the downloaded related internet content including pre fetched related videos etc. The module provides an interface to a repository for the pre fetched related videos on hard disk . The module provides fast access to the related videos based on corresponding keywords extracted from the recorded programs. The module also maintains the storage limited per channel type by deleting pre fetched videos that reach storage expiration dates. Example database properties are listed below and Table 1 below shows an example database entry 

The Prefetch Configuration module provides access to actual user prefetch configuration data on the hard disk . The module provides a graphical user interface to enable users to configure the prefetch configuration data. The prefetch configuration data includes size specification to different local storage allocations for different types of channels and storage expiration date. Channel types may be defined by favorite channel set for the user or various set of related internet content channels based on their genres popularity or other categories. Example user prefetch configuration data includes 

The system Controller alerts the Content Prefetch Agent when it is time to start prefetching. Every time the system Controller starts to record a scheduled TV program the Controller checks the user prefetch configuration to determine if prefetching is needed on a specific TV program. Upon altering the Content Prefetch Agent the system Controller provides all the needed information for the prefetch task to the Agent . This information may include e.g. start and end time of the TV program to prefetch related content for corresponding metadata such as EPG and the object references to other related system components Recorder Keyword and Phrase Extractor Internet Video Search Prefetched Video Database etc. .

Using such prefetch techniques on a PVR STB set top box facilitates providing internet content that is related to a recorded program without delay when the user begins viewing the recorded program and desires watching internet content related to the program. The invention provides a feature for PVRs for prefetching Internet based content e.g. video that is related to the recorded TV programs which is likely of interest to the user. When the user selects the prefeteched related internet content the content can be played back locally from the local storage without delays associated with internet content viewing directly from the Internet such as when a video stalls due to slow download speed from the Internet .

As is known to those skilled in the art the aforementioned example architectures described above according to the present invention can be implemented in many ways such as program instructions for execution by a processor as software modules microcode as computer program product on computer readable media as logic circuits as application specific integrated circuits as firmware etc. Further embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements.

Furthermore the embodiments of the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer processing device or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be electronic magnetic optical or a semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk an optical disk etc. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be connected to the system either directly or through intervening controllers. Network adapters may also be connected to the system to enable the data processing system to become connected to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters. The current invention satisfies such a need by analyzing a data management policy to identify information necessary for executing the policy attempting to acquire the determined necessary information from a data backup protection repository identifying any shortfall in the acquired information supplementing the acquired information by acquiring the shortfall from a primary data repository and executing the policy based on the acquired information.

In the description above numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known equivalent components and elements may be substituted in place of those described herein and similarly well known equivalent techniques may be substituted in place of the particular techniques disclosed. In other instances well known structures and techniques have not been shown in detail to avoid obscuring the understanding of this description.

Reference in the specification to an embodiment one embodiment some embodiments or other embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least some embodiments but not necessarily all embodiments. The various appearances of an embodiment one embodiment or some embodiments are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiments. If the specification states a component feature structure or characteristic may might or could be included that particular component feature structure or characteristic is not required to be included. If the specification or claim refers to a or an element that does not mean there is only one of the element. If the specification or claims refer to an additional element that does not preclude there being more than one of the additional element.

Though the present invention has been described with reference to certain versions thereof however other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.

