---

title: Method and system for generating end turns
abstract: A method and system for controlling a vehicle comprises a boundary establisher for establishing a boundary of a work area. A vehicle position sensor (e.g., a location-determining receiver) determines a position of the vehicle. A planner module plans a raw turn of a vehicle to be executed in accordance with a model turn pattern if the position of the vehicle has traversed the boundary. An adjustment module may adjust the raw turn of the vehicle to a compensated turn such that an implement coupled to the vehicle follows an implement path that substantially tracks the model turn pattern.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209075&OS=08209075&RS=08209075
owner: Deere & Company
number: 08209075
owner_city: Moline
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080630
---
This document including all of the drawings claims priority based on and the benefit of the filing date of U.S. provisional application No. 60 962 643 filed on Jul. 31 2007 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR GENERATING END TURNS under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention relates to a method and system for controlling a vehicle and more particularly a method and system for generating end turns.

When operating equipment for field operations an operator is usually responsible for executing end turns at an edge or a boundary of a work area unless the equipment is operating in an unmanned or autonomous mode. When making an end turn with a vehicle e.g. large equipment with significant width such as combine or a planter the operator may encounter difficulty in efficiently and consistently executing the end turn. For example the operator may resort to a less efficient turn or a larger headland to ensure the operator has enough room to compensate for turn variation terrain irregularity or other factors. Inconsistent or inefficient turns may lead to one or more of the following wasted fuel wasted disbursed materials unharvested crop and poor aesthetic appearance of the mowed area or processed vegetation. Thus a need exists for a system and method for providing real time planning of end turns and execution of end turns and or adjustment of end turns e.g. while an operator is in the cab of the implement .

A method and system for controlling a vehicle comprises a boundary establisher for establishing a boundary of a work area. A vehicle position sensor e.g. a location determining receiver determines a position of the vehicle. A planner module plans a raw turn of a vehicle to be executed in accordance with a model turn pattern if the position of the vehicle has traversed the boundary. An adjustment module may adjust the raw turn of the vehicle to a compensated turn such that an implement coupled to the vehicle follows an implement path that substantially tracks the model turn pattern.

A mapped area means a work area with boundaries that are mapped or otherwise defined. A designated area may refer to any portion of the work area or the entire work area. The designated area may mean a map object. A map object refers to a desired portion of the mapped area to be mowed sprayed harvested treated covered processed or otherwise traversed to accomplish a task. The boundaries of the mapped area and the boundaries of the map object may be defined to be coextensive with each other partially contiguous with each other or noncontiguous with each other for example.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention shows a block diagram of a system for controlling a vehicle which includes an end turn planner . The end turn planner may be coupled to a user interface and a vehicular controller . Further the end turn planner may communicate with a vehicle position sensor e.g. location determining receiver . In one embodiment the vehicular controller may communicate with one or more of the following a steering system a braking system and a propulsion system . The lines that interconnect the components of the system may comprise logical communication paths physical communication paths or both. Logical communication paths may comprise communications or links betweens software modules instructions or data whereas physical communication paths may comprise transmission lines data buses or communication channels for example.

The system may be mounted on or carried by a vehicle. For instance the vehicle may comprise any agricultural vehicle agricultural equipment a combine a harvester a tractor mower lawn and garden equipment a construction vehicle construction equipment demining equipment military equipment mining equipment or other types of vehicles.

The vehicle controller accepts input data or an end turn plan of the end turn planner and controls the vehicle consistent with the end turn plan. An end turn plan refers to a vehicle path an implement path or both. In one embodiment the vehicle path the implement path or both may be defined as a series of points or coordinates that lie on the path or planned path of a vehicle. In another embodiment the vehicle path the implement path or both may be defined as a quadratic equation or another equation that defines the position or position versus time of the vehicle or the implement.

The vehicle controller may generate control signals for the steering system the braking system and the propulsion system that are consistent with tracking the end turn plan. For example the control signals may comprise a steering control signal or data message that is time dependent and defines a steering angle of the steering shaft a braking control signal or data message that defines the amount of deceleration hydraulic pressure or braking friction applied to brakes a propulsion control signal or data message that controls a throttle setting a fuel flow a fuel injection system vehicular speed or vehicular acceleration. If the vehicle is propelled by an electric drive or motor the propulsion control signal or data message may control electrical energy electrical current or electrical voltage to the electric drive or motor.

The steering system may comprise an electrically controlled hydraulic steering system an electrically driven rack and pinion steering an Ackerman steering system or another steering system. The braking system may comprise an electrically controlled hydraulic braking system or another electrically controlled friction braking system. The propulsion system may comprise an internal combustion engine an internal combustion engine electric hybrid system an electric drive system or the like.

The vehicle position sensor may comprise a location determining receiver e.g. a Global Positioning System receiver with differential correction a radar system a laser radar or ladar system a range finder an ultrasonic position detector a stereo vision system an optical position system or other device for determining the position e.g. coordinates of the vehicle the implement or both with respect to a reference point. The end turn planner may determine a planned implement path a planned vehicle path or both may based on one or more of the following factors a current receiver determined position e.g. from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or another location determining receiver a heading or trajectory of the vehicle derived from two or more positions of the vehicle position sensor a desired turn type an implement model and a vehicle model. The implement model may incorporate implement geometry such as the width length wheelbase implement configuration such as a pulled pushed hitch configuration or any other implement or vehicle implement characteristics. Similarly the vehicle model may incorporate implement geometry such as the width length wheelbase implement configuration such as a pulled pushed hitch configuration or any other implement or vehicle implement characteristics.

The system of is similar to the system of except that the system further comprises an implement position sensor mounted or carried by the implement. The implement position sensor is capable of communicating with the vehicular controller and the end turn planner . The implement position sensor may comprise a location determining receiver e.g. a Global Positioning System receiver with differential correction a radar system a laser radar or ladar system a range finder an ultrasonic position detector a stereo vision system an optical position system or other device for determining the position e.g. coordinates of the implement with respect to a reference point e.g. associated with the vehicle . Where the vehicle position sensor and the implement position sensor are used together on a vehicle implement combination the vehicle position sensor may be assigned a vehicular identifier and the implement position sensor may be assigned a implement identifier to facilitate distinguishing vehicle position data from implement position data e.g. by the end turn planner .

In one embodiment the boundary establisher comprises an intersection tracking engine suitable for tracking an intersection. For example the intersection may represent one or more of the following items 1 an intersection between an implement path and a boundary or 2 an intersection between a vehicle path and a boundary e.g. via the boundary recording engine . The intersection tracking engine may actively or passively search for past intersections in a mapped area designated area or any other desired area.

One or more boundaries of the work area may be stored in data storage associated with the end turn planner in preparation for operation of the vehicle in the work area. During an initialization phase of the system e.g. when the system is first activated for use in a certain work area a collection of boundaries that are relevant to the work area may be retrieved from data storage or selected by the operator via the user interface . Alternatively the end turn planner may select the boundaries automatically based on a current location of the vehicle determined by the position sensor . The operator may enter or collect new boundaries via the user interface . The operator may store retrieve modify or delete boundaries via an application programming interface API call to the data storage or database for example.

For each vehicle path or implement path that is relevant to a work area the end turn planner may queries a path intersection tracking engine on a per path basis. Path intersection tracking engine returns to intersection tracking engine the intersections that occur on the specified path. The intersection tracking engine caches the intersections reported by path intersection tracking engine and returns a list of intersections. The list of intersections may be reviewed and attributes may be set about an intersection via the user interface e.g. through an API call on a per intersection basis .

One attribute is whether to ignore the intersection when requesting the closest intersections or not. Intersections marked as ignored may later be set to unignored via the user interface e.g. through an API call . The other attribute is what type of region transition takes place at the intersection. When there is a path change the intersections cached by the intersection tracking engine may be cleared e.g. via through an API call by the intersection tracking engine.

A current or a future vehicle path or implement path may become a new path or a modified path. The intersection tracking engine may be notified that the intersection tracking engine needs to refresh the intersection tracking engine cache of intersection points. To accomplish cache refresh an intersection tracking engine owner requests a list of all intersections. When the list of intersections is requested the intersection tracking engine validates the status of future intersections. The intersection tracking engine discards intersections that are no longer valid and finds all new intersections. The updated list of intersections may be reviewed and intersection attributes may be modified if desired.

At any moment in time when the position determination module establishes the current location of the vehicle information regarding the closest boundary intersections to the current position may be required. A closest future and a closest past intersections may be requested. If a future intersection exists that is not discarded the intersection tracking engine returns the closest future intersection that is not being ignored otherwise an indication may be made that a future intersection is not found. If a past intersection exists that is not discarded the intersection tracking engine returns the closest past intersection considered otherwise the intersection tracking engine indicates a past intersection was not found. Also a collection of impassable and field boundaries is present a collision detection engine may determine the distance to the nearest collision at every GPS epoch.

Boundary establisher communicates established boundary data to position determination module . Position determination module obtains location data e.g. geographic position or geographic coordinates of the vehicle with respect to a work area for the vehicle. The position determination module may communicate with the position sensor e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS receiver with differential correction . In an additional embodiment an optical or laser positioning system which measures the implement position in real time relative to the receiver determined position e.g. GPS position during the turn may be mounted onto an implement. Position determination module is suitable for estimating the implement path based on a receiver determined position e.g. GPS position a desired turn type or an implement model. According to an embodiment of the invention the implement model comprises implement geometry and implement configuration. The estimated implement path is estimated based on an implement mounted optical or laser positioning system suitable for measuring the implement position in real time relative to the receiver determined position e.g. GPS position during the turn. The implement model is evaluated to determine if a particular turn is possible and will not use more space than a specified area or zone allocated for a turn.

In one embodiment the system may also comprise an implement position sensor e.g. optical or laser position sensor mounted on the implement and in communication with the position determination module . Position sensor may provide a relative position of the implement relative to the determined position of the location determining receiver mounted on the vehicle. The relative position determined by the position sensor may be utilized by the adjustment module as will be described to track the model turn pattern. Position sensor may be a laser navigation system that interacts with several active transmitting beacons or passive reflective beacons at corresponding known fixed locations or a radio frequency navigation system that interacts with several active transmitting beacons or passive reflective beacons at corresponding known fixed locations. A vehicle mounted receiver of the laser navigation system or radio frequency navigation system may determine the time of arrival the angle of arrival or both of electromagnetic signals e.g. optical infra red or radio frequency propagating from three or more beacons to determine location data for the vehicle as the vehicle moves throughout the mapped area or work area. The navigation system provides location data of the vehicle with respect to a reference location or in terms of absolute coordinates with a desired degree of accuracy e.g. a tolerance within a range of plus or minus 2 centimeters to plus or minus 10 centimeters from the actual true location of the vehicle .

End turn planner also comprises a raw turn planner for planning a raw turn of a vehicle in communication with the boundary establisher and position determination module . Raw turn planner may execute a raw turn in accordance with a model turn pattern if the determined position traverses the boundary. Raw turn planner is suitable for creating a turn when a headland boundary is approaching. An alert may be transmitted to the operator that a turn is approaching. Raw turn planner locates an available turn path and acquires a path before the turn and after the turn. After a path has been located the raw turn planner acquires information regarding the path such as a back farthest ordered point a corresponding segment index of the boundary or a path identification number ID of the path utilized to find the intersection from the headland boundary. Point acquisition is accomplished via an API call to a boundary transition monitor. Raw turn planner acquires the path for the respective path ID and sets an end point on the path. A path creator is called via an API call to compute an end point corresponding with the path ID. Upon computation of the end point the path creator sets the path end point. Raw turn planner calls an implement guidance API to an implement guidance engine to update the end point to correspond to the path creator created end point. Implement guidance engine acquires the end point and computes an implement path end point. The implement path positions the implement to keep the implement on the implement path and is determined by an implement guidance engine. Raw turn planner calls a set path end point API to set the implement path end point given the implement path ID and computed implement path end point. Raw turn planner saves the implement path end point as a turn start position and creates a current mode future path via an API call to a create a next path using for instance the number of skips track spacing and the turn direction. The raw turn planner may also determine future interest points first intersect points past intersect points or next intersect points for the current path. Raw turn planner may set an intersect point for the current path as the turn end position. Raw turn planner may register the boundary turn path with a path manager.

End turn planner may further comprise an adjustment module for adjusting the raw turn of the vehicle in communication with at least one of the raw turn planner the position determination module and the boundary establisher . An adjustment module may be utilized to improve the positioning accuracy of the implement during the boundary turn. The ideal path is utilized for the implement path instead of the vehicle path . System adjustment module allows tuning adjustments to be made to a turn. Adjustments may include pushing a turn further into the headland making a larger or smaller turn radius or any other adjustment suitable for creating a plurality of guess rows as needed for the end turn pattern. A guess row is a measure of driving accuracy. An operator may execute a pass with a work implement. A typical work implement such as a planter traverses or creates multiple rows in a single pass through a farm field and each row is established on the ground substantially evenly spaced according to the mechanical arrangement of the implement such as the spacing of the row units on a planter e.g. a common row spacing is 3 inches from one row to the next . An operator may execute an adjacent pass with the same implement establishing a new set of substantially evenly perfectly spaced rows. It is contemplated that at least one row between the two passes having a spacing not determined by the mechanical setup of the implement but rather how accurately the two adjacent passes were driven. This row is commonly referred to as a guess row or an odd row or a middle . In a typical field there may be one guess row for every pass made by the implement through the field. A highly accurate guess row will be spaced similarly to the rows established by the implement e.g. consistently 3 wide A low accuracy guess row will have variation e.g. wider than 3 narrow than 3 or both as compared to the row spacing established by the implement. System and method may provide accurate guess rows at the point of intersecting with the boundaries.

The turn pattern repeats for all subsequent passes in the field. When the boundary at the edge of a work area changes the end turn planner identifies the change and continues to make the turn until the vehicle and implement are back in the field. Similarly when an angled portion of the approaching boundary is crossed the end turn planner makes a turn such that the vehicle and implement enter back into the field at the angle that best allows the end turn planner to match the previous passes.

For the specific case where the spacing between a first pass and a next is less than the turn radius of the vehicle and implement the system automatically bulges the turn to maintain the turn radius requirement such as executing a light bulb turn pattern or the like. A turn radius may be adjusted to be very small e.g. 

Although the vehicle automatically follows the end turn path it is contemplated that the operator may at anytime manually control the vehicle. Manual control may be initiated by manually steering away from the determined path. The operator may also control vehicle speed braking and transmission shifting as desired. The automated end turns are designed to ensure uniform guess rows at the beginning and end of the pass and compensate for implement draft when using drawn implements and the shape of the turn required for the vehicle and type of implement.

In step a position determination module the end turn planner or position sensor or determines a position of the vehicle the implement or both. For example the position determination module may receive position data e.g. coordinates from the vehicle position sensor the implement position sensor or both. If the position determination module receives vehicle position data from a location determining receiver or the vehicle position sensor and or the position determination module may estimate corresponding implement position data based on the vehicle configuration and dimensions the implement configuration and dimensions and the attachment configuration between the vehicle and implement.

In step the raw turn planner or end turn planner plans a raw turn of a vehicle. For example the raw turn planner or the end turn planner plans a turn to be executed in accordance with a planned model turn pattern if the determined position e.g. vehicle position of the vehicle traverses the boundary. However in an alternate embodiment the raw turn planner or the end turn planner plans a turn to be executed in accordance with a planned model turn pattern if the determined implement position of the implement e.g. a trailing or leading edge of the implement traverses the boundary.

In step the adjustment module or the end turn planner adjusts the raw turn of the vehicle to a compensated turn such that an implement coupled to the vehicle follows a target implement path or desired implement path that substantially tracks the planned model turn pattern. Step may be executed in accordance with various techniques that may be applied separately or cumulatively. Under a first technique the adjustment module or the end turn planner estimates an implement path based on an implement position of the implement. To this end method may comprise obtaining location data e.g. geographic position or geographic coordinates of the vehicle with respect to a work area for the vehicle and converting the vehicle location data to implement position or location data. Obtaining vehicle location data may be accomplished via a Global Positioning System GPS receiver with differential correction.

Under a second technique the adjustment module or end turn planner may establish a desired implement path based on a desired turn type e.g. row skipping light bulb adjacent turn and an implement model. The implement model may incorporate implement geometry such as the width length wheelbase and the like of the implement and implement configuration such as a pulled configuration a pushed configuration a hitch configuration or any other implement configuration.

Under a third technique an implement model is evaluated to determine if a raw turn is executable and capable of execution without traversing a geographic area greater than a specified area or zone allocated for the raw turn. Step may further comprise selecting an alternative type of turn if an initial selection is unexecutable within the specified area. For example the tightest turn possible may be degraded because of wheel slippage factor which can be based on the general soil type e.g. sand clay etc. or moisture content and an alternative turn type may be utilized to compensate for a degradation in a region of the work area.

Under a fourth technique an adjustment module or end turn planner may generate an adjustment to the raw turn based on whether the desired implement is linkage mounted hitch mounted trailed or semi mounted. For example adjustments may be determined by selecting the model turn pattern on a hierarchical basis. The hierarchical basis prefers a row skipping mode as a preferential model turn pattern to an alternate pass mode and a bulb turn mode unless there is insufficient space between the boundary and the border to execute the row skipping mode. The hierarchical basis prefers the alternate pass mode as a preferential model turn pattern to a bulb turn mode unless there is insufficient space between the boundary and the border to execute the alternate pass mode.

In an additional embodiment a method for controlling a vehicle comprises establishing an interior boundary of a work area and a border determining a position of the vehicle via a location determining receiver planning via a user interface of the vehicle while operating the vehicle in the work area a raw turn of a vehicle to be executed from a starting point coincident with a vehicular path segment e.g. initial row linear path segment or contour path segment in accordance with a model turn pattern if the determined position traverses the boundary and adjusting the raw turn of the vehicle to a compensated turn such that the vehicle and the implement stay within an authorized zone between the boundary and a border of the work area and such that an end point of the compensated turn is generally aligned with or coextensive with a next vehicular path segment e.g. next row linear path segment or contour path segment to be traversed within the work area.

Referring to the step of establishing a boundary of a work area may further comprise executing steps and .

In step the boundary establisher or the end turn planner tracks an intersection of the desired implement path with the boundary. In one embodiment tracking an intersection may be accomplished via an intersection tracking engine suitable for detecting an intersection of the desired implement path and the boundary from multiple inputs e.g. a database data closest past intersection data closest future intersection data boundary data past boundary data future boundary data likely boundary data . The intersection tracking engine may utilize a database to determine a set of closest past intersection data or closest future intersection data for a given path base from a given collection of boundaries. In one example the database may contain a collection of boundaries inputted via the user interface . Inputs may include data collected regarding a past or a future boundary. Boundary data may be sorted to determine boundaries likely to intersect at a given path base or planned path structure. A sorted boundary may be inspected for intersection between the path base and the boundary. Intersection tracking engine may be capable of analyzing future or past intersection data to determine a closest future or closest past intersection point and provide the data as requested.

In step the boundary establisher or the end turn planner determines a start point offset from the boundary. Step may be carried out in accordance with various techniques that may be applied alternately or cumulatively.

Under a first technique a start point offset determination of a turn path begins with using the intersection position obtained from a boundary transition monitor or from the intersection tracking engine. In a first example the intersection position represents the implement position when the implement has completely crossed the boundary. In a second example the intersection position represents the implement position when the implement has completely left the work area. The implement may leave the work area to minimize the number of skips or skipped rows. In a third example the intersection position represents the implement position when the implement has started to leave the work area. The implement may leave the work area to minimize overlap to cover or traverse a work area with the implement.

Under a second technique a start point of the implement turn is determined by shifting the intersection position back into or toward a work area. In one embodiment the amount of the shift is generally equal to the start point headland offset.

Under a third technique a start point of the implement turn may be selected for consistency between the start point and the end point of the implement turn path. Accordingly those candidate implement turns that are not associated with consistent start points and end points are rejected or eliminated from further searching for a preferential start point and end point of the implement path turn. The resultant point of the implement turn is set as the end point of the implement path before the turn. After the end point has been set the respective vehicle path may be updated. The start point of the vehicle turn is set to match the end point of the vehicle path before the turn. Matching may be accomplished after the vehicle path is updated.

Under a fourth technique via the user interface an operator may shift a starting point or an end point of the turn in the work area by an increment or a decrement to compensate for field conditions or variations in the field boundaries.

Under a fifth technique the end turn planner adjustment module or user interface limits the increment or the decrement by a spatial shift or a temporal shift based on an impassable boundary beyond the boundary to avoid the vehicle or the implement traversing the impassible boundary.

Under a sixth technique the end turn planner adjustment module or user interface may adjust at least one of a starting point and an end point of the turn dynamically in the work area by an increment or a decrement based on a previous execution of a turn to align the end point with the boundary.

In step the boundary establisher or the end turn planner determines an end point offset from the boundary for the desired implement path proportional to a ground speed of the vehicle. Step may be executed in accordance with various procedures that may be applied separately or cumulatively.

Under a first procedure locating the end point offset of a turn path begins with using the intersection between the headland boundary and the vehicle path that follows the turn. In one embodiment a next vehicle path may be created for the current tracking mode. The intersection is located by utilizing a function of a raw turn planner .

Under a second procedure the end point of the vehicle turn is located by shifting the intersection of the next vehicle control path into or toward the field. In one embodiment the amount of shift is approximately equal to the receiver inline offset minus the end point headland offset. The resultant point or end point may represent a next beginning point of the vehicle path for the next row after the turn. After the next beginning point of the vehicle path after the turn has been set the end turn planner makes a call to the extent path creator which updates the respective implement path.

Under a third procedure end point of the implement turn may be selected for consistency between the start point and the start point of the implement turn path. Accordingly those candidate implement turns that are not associated with consistent start points and end points are rejected or eliminated from further searching for a preferential start point and end point of the implement path turn. The end point of the implement turn is set to match the start point of the vehicle path after the turn. In one configuration the end point and start point match may be completed subsequent to an update call to the extent path creator.

Under a fourth procedure via the user interface an operator may shift a starting point or an end point of the turn in the work area by an increment or a decrement to compensate for field conditions or variations in the field boundaries.

Under a fifth procedure the end turn planner adjustment module or user interface limits the increment or the decrement by a spatial shift or a temporal shift based on an impassable boundary beyond the boundary to avoid the vehicle or the implement traversing the impassible boundary.

Under a sixth procedure the end turn planner adjustment module or user interface may adjust at least one of a starting point and an end point of the turn dynamically in the work area by an increment or a decrement based on a previous execution of a turn to align the end point with the boundary.

Method may further comprise allowing an operator operating the vehicle in the work area to dynamically select a turn mode corresponding to the model turn pattern from an alternate pass mode a row skipping mode and a bulb turn mode. Method may allow the operator to dynamically select the turn mode up to a minimum time duration or a minimum distance from approaching the boundary. Method may also be suitable for alerting an operator via a user interface prior to executing the compensated turn.

Method may also comprise allowing an operator operating the vehicle in the work area to dynamically select a turn mode corresponding to the model turn pattern from an alternate pass mode a row skipping mode and a bulb turn mode and allowing the operator to dynamically select the turn mode up to a minimum time duration or a minimum distance from approaching the boundary. A turn path may be created in real time and does not require manual intervention.

Method may allow the operator to shift a starting point or an end point of the turn in the work area by an increment or decrement to compensate for field conditions curves discontinuities jogs obstacles variations or irregularities in at least one of the border and the boundary. Method may further provide adjustment of at least one of a starting point and an end point of the turn dynamically in the work area by an increment or a decrement based on a previous execution of a turn to align the end point with the boundary. Method may also limit the increment or decrement by a spatial shift or a temporal shift based on an impassable boundary beyond the boundary to avoid the vehicle or the implement traversing the impassible boundary. Method may alert an operator via a user interface of a compensated turn to be executed prior to executing the compensated turn.

Method may also comprise mounting a position sensor e.g. optical or laser position sensor on the implement such that the position sensor provides a relative position of the implement relative to the determined position of the location determining receiver mounted on the vehicle. The adjustment utilizes the relative position to track the model turn pattern. Position sensor may be a laser navigation system that interacts with several active transmitting beacons or passive reflective beacons at corresponding known fixed locations or a radio frequency navigation system that interacts with several active transmitting beacons or passive reflective beacons at corresponding known fixed locations. A vehicle mounted receiver of the laser navigation system or radio frequency navigation system may determine the time of arrival the angle of arrival or both of electromagnetic signals e.g. optical infra red or radio frequency propagating from three or more beacons to determine location data for the vehicle as the vehicle moves throughout the mapped area or work area. The navigation system provides location data of the vehicle with respect to a reference location or in terms of absolute coordinates with a desired degree of accuracy e.g. a tolerance within a range of plus or minus 2 centimeters to plus or minus 10 centimeters from the actual true location of the vehicle .

Referring to illustrative travel row sections are shown. While in the field the operator can select from a pre defined set of turn patterns alternating passes skip pass or skip and fill patterns. Referring specifically to an alternate pass configuration is illustrated. In the turn pattern of the direction is toggled right left and right alternately. Referring to an Always Skip N configuration is illustrated. In the configuration of n 1 tracks are skipped going in the forward direction and n tracks are skipped in the opposite direction. The turn direction is set to right initially. After completing all the turns in the same direction the turn direction is toggled and the pattern is followed. Referring specifically to an Always Skip 0 configuration is illustrated. Additional skip options are available such as an option for First Turn Skip which allows the system to always skip at least one pass thereby ensuring only a U turn is created.

It is to be understood that the present invention may be conveniently implemented in forms of a software package. Such a software package may be a computer program product which employs a computer readable storage medium including stored computer code which is used to program a computer to perform the disclosed function and process of the present invention. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to any type of conventional floppy disk optical disk CD ROM magneto optical disk ROM RAM EPROM EEPROM magnetic or optical card or any other suitable media for storing electronic instructions.

The specific order or hierarchy of steps in the foregoing disclosed methods are examples of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the method can be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present invention. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The method and system and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

