---

title: Contemporaneously sharing resources targeted by a library
abstract: Computer-readable media, computerized methods, and computer systems for acting on properties of multiple resources, which span disparate locations within a network, upon detecting an intuitive user-initiated operation are provided. Initially, a library is provided that includes a framework for contemporaneously accessing a collection of items within a scope thereof. Upon launching the library, representations of the scoped items are surfaced at a UI display. When the user-initiated operation is applied at one of the surfaced representations, properties of each of the scoped items are automatically manipulated. A library-configuration state, which reflects how the items are affected upon manipulating the properties thereof, may be updated upon implementing the manipulation. Accordingly, if the scope of the library is subsequently extended to encompass another item outside the original collection of items, the properties of this new item are automatically manipulated to align with the library-configuration state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07987202&OS=07987202&RS=07987202
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07987202
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
Generally individual resources are established and stored in separate locations in order to organize information based on projects to apply differing levels of security to various folders files and the like. Various techniques exist that enable a user to share the individual resources e.g. files folders network paths and the like with one or more other users such as granting another user permission to access or edit a document. However these current techniques require the user attempting to share the individual files or the individual folders to separately locate each of the individual files folders and manipulate the properties thereof to reflect the user s intent to share. For instance the user must recursively access each location at which the individual files folders are stored traverse a directory within each accessed location to arrive upon an object linked to an individual file and act upon the properties of that file. As such this technique fails to offer a convenient vehicle for collectively sharing two or more files concurrently and presents a tedious and time consuming task for users wishing to share multiple files at a variety of locations e.g. sharing exchanging business information on a plurality of servers with business partners .

Accordingly employing a procedure to that allows a user to collectively operate on multiple resources which span disparate locations in a contemporaneous manner would uniquely streamline the management of a user s data and in particular would enhance the user s experience when sharing that information with other users.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to computer readable media computerized methods and computer systems for acting on properties of multiple resources that span disparate locations within a network upon providing an intuitive user initiated operation at an item. Initially a library may be provided that encompasses a collection of items which are mapped thereto. Accordingly the library embodies a framework for allowing a user to contemporaneously access a plurality of items or resources which are stored at various locations within a scope of the library upon launching the library. By way of example the various locations traverse disparate devices portions of hardware and or platforms within a network. Upon launching the library representations of the scoped resources are surfaced at a UI display. In embodiments the representations may be rendered as a collective view in a hierarchical format that is intuitively navigable and searchable for an individual resource.

When a user initiated operation is applied at one of the surfaced representations the properties of one or more scoped resources are contemporaneously manipulated in accordance with the user initiated operation. A library configuration state which reflects effects to the resources upon manipulating the properties thereof may be updated upon implementing the manipulation. Accordingly if the scope of the library is subsequently extended to encompass a subject resource outside the library s scope the properties of the subject resource are automatically manipulated to correspond with the library configuration state. A message that notifies the user of a successful manipulation may be rendered at the UI display. Or a communication that alerts users affected by the manipulation may be published at a network.

In an exemplary instance let there be a musician that has recorded and saved a plurality of digital audio files to various locations including a local storage and a CD drive on a personal computer a remote server available on the Internet and another computing device available via a home intranet. These files residing on one or more of the various locations can be assigned to a particular library thereby providing the musician concurrent access to this collection of files upon launching the library. If the musician decides to share the files as a collection a single click operation may be applied to a representation of one of the files or to the library itself to initiate an adjustment of interactive rights to the collection. In instances a group of files within the collection may be selected for sharing and or specific users may be selected as sharees when adjusting the interactive rights. Upon completing the adjustment a message may be sent to alert the sharees that the digital audio files are shared with them while a message may appear to the musician providing notice that the files were successfully shared.

The subject matter of the present invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention relates to computer executable instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media that perform a method for automatically manipulating properties of resources residing at one or more locations targeted by a library. As used herein the term resources is not meant to be limiting but may include any type of file path file folder document media file stored item information object links lists and or other storage elements regardless of the physical location of their source.

In particular the method includes inter alia receiving a user initiated operation to launch a library. Typically the library comprises a framework for contemporaneously accessing the resources of the one or more targeted locations within a scope of the library. Upon launching the library representations of these resources may be surfaced at a UI display. When a user initiated action is applied to one of the surfaced representations the properties of each of the resources residing at the one or more targeted locations within the scope of the library are automatically manipulated in accordance with the user initiated action. These resources may be stored at least temporarily consistently with the manipulated properties.

Generally storing the resources includes updating a library configuration state that reflects how the resources are affected upon manipulating the properties thereof. Accordingly when the scope of the library is extended to encompass a subject resource residing within an untargeted location the properties of the subject resource are automatically manipulating to align with the library configuration state wherein the library configuration state of the subject resource is consistent with a latest manipulation applied to the resources originally provided within the scope of the library. Upon manipulating the properties of the resources a notice that exposes the updated library configuration state of the resources may be published.

In another embodiment aspects of the present invention involve a computerized method implemented at a computing device for contemporaneously adjusting interactive rights of one or more resources. Initially the method includes detecting a single user initiated operation applied to a representation of an item. Typically the item includes a location or the one or more resources residing at the location that is encompassed within a scope of a library. The library generally comprises a framework for contemporaneously accessing and acting on the one or more scoped resources. Further the method may include inter alia the following steps in now particular order employing the framework of the library to identify system paths to each of the scoped resources based on the system paths filtering from consideration as candidates for adjustment the scoped resources that reside at remote locations and contemporaneously adjusting the interactive rights of the candidate scoped resources. A library configuration state that articulates the adjusted interactive rights of the scoped resources may be generated. This library configuration state is often published to a network. In addition a status of the shared scoped resources is communicated to a set of users whose interactive rights to the scoped resources are adjusted.

In yet another embodiment the present invention encompasses a computer system embodied on one or more computer storage media having computer executable instructions provided thereon for performing a method for simultaneously manipulating interactive rights of one or more resources residing at a plurality of locations targeted by a library. Initially the computer system includes inter alia the plurality of target locations on which the one or more resources reside and a processor component. Typically at least one of the target locations is mapped to local physical location and at least one of the target locations is mapped to a remote physical location.

The processor component which accommodates an operating system for contemporaneously accessing the resources being accessed by the library includes a sharing engine a data store a translation component and an operation component. The sharing engine executes a handler scheme for calling the plurality of target locations within a scope of the library upon launching the library. Generally the launch of the library is invoked by a single user initiated operation applied to a representation of the library at a UI display. The data store receives the calls from the handler scheme interprets the calls to identify the plurality of target locations at the local physical location that are identified thereby and generates a manifest of system paths. In embodiments the system paths point to the resources residing within the identified plurality of target locations.

The translation component receives the calls from the handler scheme interprets the calls to identify the plurality of target locations at the remote physical location that are identified thereby and translates a list of the one or more resources residing at the identified plurality of target locations into the manifest of system paths. In response to a user initiated operation applied to the library the operation component simultaneously manipulates the interactive rights of the resources by tracing the system paths thereto. In embodiments the operating system further includes a filtration component that filters the system paths from the manifest upon ascertaining that the plurality of target locations is currently unavailable to the sharing engine. Generally the filtered system paths point to resources residing at the unavailable target locations.

In embodiments the present invention facilitates sharing multiple locations through a pre established vehicle for contemporaneously accessing multiple locations. In one instance the vehicle is a library. As used herein the term library is not meant to be limiting and may encompass any destinations in which a user may find and or organize data as a collection of items. Advantageously the collection of items or resources that comprise content may span multiple locations. In one instance a library may ostensibly function as folder that provides access to many resources. However unlike a folder the library provides one click access to resources in various folders or locations on various platforms.

In an exemplary embodiment the library is configured to provide access to locations within a scope of that particular library. These scoped locations may be local or remote and may be automatically assembled by an operating system or may be manually established and managed by a user or administrator. Manually establishing the scoped locations may include discovering one or more locations e.g. federated sources or non federated devices ascertaining that the locations are relevant to the library and selecting the locations for addition to the library. Based on modifications to resources within the scoped and non scoped locations the library may be managed by removing or adding locations to maintain a useful collection of items. Accordingly although a user s varied storage patterns may have resulted in the creation of dispersed files and folders the libraries allow a user to consolidate access to these entities via a robust interface.

In particular the interface may be provided in the form of a top view. The top view or navigation pane typically enumerates a selection of the resources within the library s scoped locations. The order and hierarchical level of the selected resources that are initially exposed may be determined by an underlying configuration of the library or by user preferences. In an exemplary embodiment the configuration of the exposed resources substantially simulates conventional arrangements of files and folders presented at a UI display. Thus libraries facilitate working across multiple locations e.g. locations beyond a local personal computer within a single view.

For instance let there be a sales representative who is searching for a sales report within various files on disparate computing devices e.g. across the internet the corporate intranet on the local PC and the like or on separate platforms within a single computing device. Launching a library that encompasses sales information for that particular sales representative may expose an aggregation of the various files that may potentially include the sales report. If an indication of the sales report is not surfaced upon initially launching the library the sales representative may navigate through a file hierarchy of the library or perform a library wide search. The library wide search typically accesses each of the files within the scope of the library and searches each for the sales report assuming arguendo that the computing devices and the data stores therein are in communication with a sharing engine supporting the library. Accordingly the single view effectively dissolves the location boundaries of where data is stored and enables a user to work with items in the library in a logical and natural way.

Although various different configurations of the library have been described e.g. an aggregation of resources across scoped locations it should be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that other types of vehicles that provide suitable collections of items may be used and that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to those library architectures described herein. By way of example collections of items may be consolidated by and mapped to a set of search based query results a list of favorite destinations and the like. These vehicles may provide simultaneous access to files that traverse multiple devices memory locations and for the purposes of discussion are considered embodiments of libraries.

Having briefly described an overview of embodiments of the present invention and some of the features therein an exemplary operating environment suitable for implementing the present invention is described below.

Referring to the drawings in general and initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program components being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally program components including routines programs objects components data structures and the like refer to code that performs particular tasks or implements particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including handheld devices consumer electronics general purpose computers specialty computing devices etc. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

With continued reference to computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output I O ports I O components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. The inventors hereof recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop handheld device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computer or computing device. 

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies CDROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical or holographic media magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to encode desired information and be accessed by computing device .

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable nonremovable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component vibrating component etc. I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device etc.

Turning now to a schematic diagram of an exemplary system architecture suitable for use in implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention It will be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the exemplary system architecture shown in is merely an example of one suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should the exemplary system architecture be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein.

Further logic within the operating system supporting the exemplary system architecture may be embodied on an internal processing component to a computing device . This logic assists the operating system in interfacing with local and remote destinations provided within a distributed computing environment such as a remote server e.g. network location or extended location or any combination thereof. In embodiments of the invention that are practiced in distributed computing environments logic communication is linked through appropriate connections. These connections may be wired or wireless.

Examples of particular wired embodiments within the scope of the present invention include USB connections and cable connections. Examples of particular wireless embodiments within the scope of the present invention include a near range wireless network and radio frequency technology. It should be understood and appreciated that the designation of near range wireless network is not meant to be limiting and should be interpreted broadly to include at least the following technologies negotiated wireless peripheral NWP devices short range wireless air interference networks e.g. wireless personal area network wPAN wireless local area network wLAN wireless wide area network wWAN Bluetooth and the like wireless peer to peer communication e.g. Ultra Wideband and any protocol that supports wireless communication of data between devices. Additionally persons familiar with the field of the invention will realize that a near range wireless network may be practiced by various data transfer methods e.g. satellite transmission telecommunications network etc. . Therefore it is emphasized that embodiments of the connections between the computing device and the remote server s for instance are not limited by the examples described but embrace a wide variety of methods of communications.

For instance the computing device may be operably coupled to a network location that employs internet technologies over a network . In another instance the computing device may be operably coupled to an extended location that employs intranet technologies over a private computer network e.g. securely sharing part of an organization s information . In embodiments these operable connections include without limitation one or more local area networks LANs and or wide area networks WANs as more fully discussed above. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

The network location and the extended location are generally configured to store resources that may be aggregated within a collection of items discussed above. In various embodiments the network location and the extended location may be configured to be searchable for suitable access to the stored resources . For instance the network location may be searchable for digital audio files i.e. resources that are included in a collection of items within the scope of the library from the example above.

It will be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the resources stored in the network location and the extended location may be configurable and may include any information relevant to the facilitating access thereof. The content and volume of such resources or information are not intended to limit the scope of embodiments of the present invention in any way. Further though illustrated as a single independent components the network location and the extended location may in fact be a remote server a personal computing device e.g. computing device of a handheld device e.g. personal digital assistant a mobile device e.g. laptop computer cell phone media player consumer electronic device a plurality of databases for instance a database cluster portions of which may reside on a computing device another external computing device not shown and or any combination thereof.

In yet another instance the operating system of the computing device may be operably coupled to a local location via a hardware connection or any other manner of placing internal components in communication with each other that is known in the relevant industry. Similar to the locations and the local location is capable of storing being searchable for and providing suitable access to the resources that are added to the scope of the library. By way of example the local location may be a CD drive a memory store a database integrated with the operating system a flash drive expanded memory a card or any other media storage element that can communicate with the operating system when in proximity thereof.

Exemplary system architecture includes the computing device for in part supporting operation of the processing component . The computing device may take the form of various types of computing devices. By way of example only the computing device may be a personal computing device e.g. computing device of handheld device e.g. personal digital assistant a mobile device e.g. laptop computer cell phone media player consumer electronic device various servers and the like. Additionally the computing device may comprise two or more electronic devices configured to share information therebetween.

In embodiments as discussed above the computing device includes the presentation component and the processing component e.g. hardware with an operating system installed thereon. The computing device is configured to render a UI display on the presentation component . The presentation component which may be operably coupled to the processing component may be configured as any display device that is capable of presenting information to a user such as a monitor electronic display panel touch screen liquid crystal display LCD plasma screen one or more light emitting diodes LED incandescent bulbs a laser an electroluminescent light source a chemical light a flexible light wire and or fluorescent light or any other display type or may comprise a reflective surface upon which the visual information is projected. In one exemplary embodiment the UI display rendered by the presentation component is configured to present a top view for surfacing a representation of one or more of the resources within a scope of the library. In another exemplary embodiment the UI display is capable of rendering an indication whether sharing the resources with a selected set of users was successful.

The operating system OS refers generally to the software that manages the sharing of the resources of the processing component and provides programmers with an interface used to access those resources. In operation the operating system interprets system data and detects the user initiated inputs and responds by executing such processes as the following in no particular order launching a library that surfaces representations of the resources at the UI display e.g. rendered within the top view and contemporaneously manipulating properties of the resources residing at target locations e.g. the locations and . For discussion purposes targeted locations or scoped locations generally refer to those locations that are included within the scope of the library. That is the resources stored at the target locations e.g. one or more of the locations or are mapped to the collection of items encompassed by the library. An untargeted location may be subsequently added to the scope of the library however the resources saved to the untargeted location will likely be automatically manipulated such the properties of those resources align with a current library configuration state discussed more fully below.

Further the resources stored at the targeted locations which are verified as presently accessible to the operating system are typically candidates for manipulation upon receiving the user initiated action. In one instance verifying includes ascertaining whether a framework of the library is operably coupled to one or more of the target locations. By way of example if an intranet connection is functional and a CD is inserted at a CD driver then the resources at the extended location and the local location respectively are accessible and candidates for being concurrently acted upon.

But the resources stored at the targeted locations which are identified as not presently accessible to the operating system are filtered from being candidates for manipulation upon receiving the user initiated action. In one instance those targeted locations that are unavailable to or decoupled from the framework of the library are filtered from being considered a candidate for manipulation applied to its contents. In another instance upon recognizing that a user initiated action is attempting to invoke a manipulation to the resources within the collection of items an application programming interface API may return a list of the target locations e.g. an inventory of disconnected system paths on which the operating system can operate via appropriate channels. By way of example if an intranet connection is failing the computing device is offline from the Internet and a CD is absent from a CD driver then the resources at the extended location e.g. an internally networked computer the network location e.g. a photo sharing website and the local location respectively are filtered from being candidates of an action triggered from the library.

Although various different configurations of the locations and have been described above it should be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that other types of suitable components that provide an accessible destination that at least temporarily retains data may be used and that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to those particular locations described herein. For instance the extended location may include personal handheld device operable coupled to the computing device via a peer to peer wireless connection while the local location may include a standalone hard drive that is operably coupled to the operating system via a Bluetooth connection.

In an exemplary embodiment the operating system is accommodated on the processing component and supports execution of one or more components for contemporaneously manipulating the resources that are accessible to the library. With continued reference to the components include a translation component a sharing engine a filtration component an operation component a presentation component and a data store . Initially the sharing engine is generally configured to execute a handler scheme for calling the plurality of target locations within a scope of the library upon launching the library. Calling may be invoked automatically in response to a trigger event e.g. detecting the user initiated operation to manipulate the library or at periodic intervals e.g. once a minute during regular operation . Typically the launch of the library is invoked by a single user initiated operation applied to a representation of the library at the UI display . For instance the single user initiated operation may be a mouse click applied over an iconic representation of the library revealed on a toolbar a menu a desktop workspace and the like.

In one embodiment the handler scheme employs an API to interrogate the data store to determine the various targeted locations and resources therein that are spanned by the library. Generally the data store is configured for receiving the calls from the handler scheme . In embodiments the data store may include a registry an XML file or any other mechanism configured for holding and managing data. Upon recognizing that a call is received the data store may interpret the call s to identify one or more target locations at a local physical location e.g. the local location that are identified by the calls. In an exemplary embodiment the handler scheme appends a library identifier to the calls to facilitate the identification of the appropriate local physical locations. Also the data store may generate a manifest of system paths that relate to the resources within the scope of the library. That is the system paths point to the resources residing within the identified target locations.

The translation component is generally configured for receiving the calls from the handler scheme and interpreting the calls to identify one or more target locations at remote physical location s e.g. the network location and or the extended location that are identified by the calls. In embodiments the translation component is responsible for translating a list of one or more resources residing at the identified target locations into a manifest of system paths . These manifests of system paths and may be retrieved by the handler scheme and aggregated to a listing of system paths at the sharing engine . This aggregated list of system paths allows the operating system to target the appropriate resources for implementing contemporaneous manipulation thereto.

A used herein the phrase system paths is not meant to be limiting but may encompass any format that targets one or more resources. In one instance a system path may include a mapping scheme that locates the resource on a particular device. In another instance the system path may link one or more scoped resources to the library via namespace identifiers. By way of example the namespace identifiers include an abstract container that provides a unique context for navigating to a particular resource residing at the resources within the library s scope.

The filtration component is generally configured to filter the system paths from the manifests and upon ascertaining that one or more of the target locations is currently unavailable to the sharing engine . As such the filtered system paths point to one or more resources residing at unavailable target locations. As discussed above the unavailable target locations may include remote servers that are for some reason decoupled from the computing device . By way of example the unavailable target locations includes one or more of the following a secure server protected with user specific authorization data a data store that is disconnected from the operating system or the remote physical location that is currently inaccessible.

Accordingly the available locations may be considered candidates for concurrently manipulating the resources therein. These targeted resources may be accessed by tracing the system paths thereto. In one embodiment each of the targeted resources is concurrently manipulated upon detecting an appropriate user initiated operation. In other embodiments the user may select one or more of the targeted resources for concurrent manipulation from listing of the targeted resources.

The operation component is generally configured for automatically manipulating the interactive rights of the resources in substantial concurrence. Typically the functionality of the operation component is initiated by detecting a user initiated operation applied to the library. In one instance the user initiated operation is a selection at a visual representation e.g. icon or control button of the library surfaced at the UI display . In particular embodiments applying the user initiated operation at the representation of the library includes providing an instruction to alter rights to the resources and or providing a selection of users whose rights with respect to the resources are affected upon manipulating the properties of the resources. Generally selecting a set of users involves picking one or more users or user groups from a list. Accordingly the resources may be shared unshared with the selected users concurrently by applying the appropriate user initiated operation to the library. By way of example the resources may be shared to the selected set of users by inserting expected identifiers that are associated with each selected user respectively within the instruction to alter resource rights.

By way of example providing an instruction to alter rights to the resources may include employing the sharing engine to perform an action on the properties of the targeted resources by tracing the system paths thereto. Further providing an instruction to alter rights to the resources may include simultaneously manipulating the properties of the targeted resources such that the targeted resources are shared e.g. lifting the protective rights or unshared e.g. applying security measures to the resources . Further yet providing an instruction to alter rights to the resources may include contemporaneously performing any other operation on the targeted resources that is known in the relevant field. By way of example only contemporaneously performing other operations may include inter alia the following actions sharing unsharing a selection of the resources backing up the resources encrypting the resources or syncing the resources when connected with a suitable device. Typically the resources are at least temporarily stored.

In embodiments library configuration state is updated to reflect one or more of these operations performed upon the resources. Generally the library configuration state is a storage mechanism that captures qualities of the resources upon manipulating the properties thereof. As such upon adding a new resource or location to the existing scope of the library the properties of this new item may be aligned with the library configuration state. For instance if the operating system recognizes that the scope of the library is extended to encompass a subject resource residing within an untargeted location the properties of the newly added subject resource are automatically manipulating to align with the library configuration state. By way of example when the library configuration state indicates that each of the resources stored at target locations within the scope of the library are currently being shared to a particular group then upon entry to the scope of the library a subject resource may be automatically manipulated such that it is similarly shared. In another example when the library configuration state indicates that each of the resources stored at target locations within the scope of the library are currently marked as private then upon entry to the scope of the library a shared subject resource may be automatically manipulated such that it is marked as private as well. Conversely in embodiments if a constriction of the scope of the library to exclude a subject resource residing within a targeted location is recognized the properties of the subject resource are automatically manipulated to align with a restored configuration state. In one instance the restored configuration state of the subject resource is influenced by default configuration settings of the operating system .

The presentation component is generally configured for alerting a user that the simultaneous manipulation of the protective rights of the resources is successful or unsuccessful. In embodiments providing an alert of an unsuccessful attempt to manipulate includes surfacing an error message indicating the unavailable target locations. The issuing of notifications is discussed more fully below with reference to . In instances the presentation component may be responsible for surfacing the top view at the UI display as depicted by communication . Also in instances the presentation component may communicate a status of rights with respect to the manipulated resources to the selected set of users who are affected by the manipulation.

With reference to this exemplary system architecture is but one example of a suitable environment that may be implemented to carry out aspects of the present invention and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the illustrated exemplary system architecture be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of the components and as illustrated. In some embodiments one or more of the components and may be implemented as stand alone devices. In other embodiments one or more of the components and may be integrated directly into the operating system and thus not distinct therefrom. It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the components and illustrated in are exemplary in nature and in number and should not be construed as limiting.

Accordingly any number of components may be employed to achieve the desired functionality within the scope of embodiments of the present invention. Although the various components of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components elements is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey or fuzzy. Further although some components and devices of are depicted as single blocks the depictions are exemplary in nature and in number and are not to be construed as limiting e.g. although only one presentation component is shown many more may be operably coupled to the computing device thereby functioning in conjunction to present the UI display .

Exemplary processes for contemporaneously manipulating resources within the scope of the library will now be described with reference to . Initially is a flow diagram that illustrates an overall method for automatically manipulating properties of resources residing at one or more locations targeted by a library in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As depicted at block a user initiated operation to launch a library is received. As discussed above in embodiments the library includes a framework for contemporaneously accessing the resources of the one or more targeted locations within a scope of the library. In one instance of the framework a shell link is provided that points to various resources on targeted locations. The shell link may be partially based on a list of system paths for the resources within the library s scope which are typically gathered by the handler scheme of .

In one instance receiving the user initiated action applied at the surfaced representation includes at least the following steps detecting an instruction to alter rights to the resources see block and detecting a selection of users whose rights with respect to the resources are affected upon implementing the manipulation to the properties of the resources. Further as discussed above the user initiated operation may be applied to a representation of the library via a menu or a representation of an item e.g. an icon describing a resource a location a file a document a folder and the like in the collection of the library. As such one a selection or all of the resources within the scope of the library may be indicated for having the manipulation applied thereto.

Incident to launching the library representations of the resources are surfaced at a UI display as indicated at block . In embodiments surfacing representations of the resources at a UI display e.g. the UI display rendered at the presentation device of includes inter alia rendering a collective view of the resources in a hierarchical format. By way of example the hierarchical format is intuitively navigable to discover an individual resource stored at a particular targeted location. Accordingly the hierarchical format is searchable for the individual resources by exploring content associated with the resources within the scope of the library.

As indicated at block the method may further include verifying that framework of the library is operably coupled to each of the target locations. In embodiments verifying that framework of the library is operably coupled to the target locations includes in no particular order identifying as unavailable the resources that reside at targeted locations that are decoupled from the framework see block and filtering the identified resources from being considered a candidate for automatic manipulation see block .

A user initiated action applied to one of the surfaced representations may be received. In accordance with the user initiated action the properties of each of the resources residing at the targeted locations within the scope of the library are automatically manipulated as indicated at block . In instances automatically manipulating the properties of each of the resources includes but is not limited to the following steps interrogating the targeted locations within the scope of the library to identify system paths to each of the resources residing therein see block and concurrently acting on the properties of the resources by tracing the system paths thereto see block . Also in instances automatically manipulating the properties of each of the resources may include performing at least one of the following operations sharing the resources regularly backing up the resources encrypting the resources or syncing the resources upon detecting a connection with a suitable device. In an exemplary embodiment a library configuration state is updated to reflect these operations performed upon the resources as indicated at block .

The resources may be stored consistently with the manipulated properties as indicated at block . In embodiments storing the resources consistent with the manipulated properties includes updating the library configuration state. As discussed above the library configuration state captures qualities of the resources upon manipulating the properties thereof. As indicated at block an extension of the scope of the library to encompass a subject resource residing within an untargeted location may be recognized. Incident to recognizing an entry of the subject resource the properties of the subject resource are automatically manipulating to align with the library configuration state as indicated at block . Accordingly the library configuration state of the subject resource is consistent with a latest manipulation applied to the resources originally provided within the scope of the library. As indicated at block a notice is published that exposes the updated library configuration state of the resources upon manipulating the properties thereof. In addition an indication of whether the manipulation is successfully applied to the properties of each of the resources may be surfaced.

Turning to a flow diagram that illustrates an overall method for contemporaneously adjusting interactive rights of one or more resources is shown in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Initially a single user initiated operation applied to a representation of an item is detected as indicated at block . Generally the item includes a location or the resources residing at the location that is encompassed within a scope of a library. As discussed above the library comprises a framework for contemporaneously accessing and acting on the scoped resources. As indicated at block the framework of the library is employed to identify system paths to each of the scoped resources. Based on the system paths the scoped resources that reside at remote locations are filtered from consideration as candidates for adjustment as indicated a block . As indicated at block the interactive rights of the candidate scoped resources are contemporaneously adjusted e.g. sharing or unsharing the resources . A library configuration state that articulates the adjusted interactive rights of the scoped resources may be generated. In embodiments the library configuration state to may be published to a network as indicated at block . Further as indicated at block a status of the shared scoped resources may be communicated to the set of users whose interactive rights to the scoped resources are adjusted.

With reference to illustrative screen displays of exemplary user interfaces for accessing a library and surfacing a representation of the collection of items within the library are shown in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Initially with reference to an illustrative screen display depicts a menu window e.g. a start menu that includes a plurality of selectable links . Applying a user initiated action e.g. a single mouse click on the selectable links may invoke the operating system to launch a library identified by the user initiated action . Although a particular configuration of the selectable links has been described it should be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that other types of suitable configurations e.g. control buttons selectable portions of a toolbar drop down menu that induce launching a library may be used and that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the configuration described herein.

Turning to an illustrative screen display depicts a top view e.g. the top view surfaced at the user interface of that exposes a collection of items within a pictures library . In particular the collection of items includes locations and that are targeted by the pictures library . In one of the targeted locations which is a local location on a hard drive within the scope of the pictures library resources e.g. digital image files residing at that location are exposed by rendering representations thereof. These representations may include an icon an alphanumeric label a top level menu or any other manner of indicating a resource to user know in the relevant field.

With reference to an illustrative screen display depicts a display area or window that includes a listing of libraries . As shown the pictures library of is selected for performing a manipulation thereto. The selection is conducted by way of a user initiated operation as discussed above. Accordingly the user initiated operation may be applied to a representation of a resource e.g. see at reference numeral or to a representation of a library such as the picture library . Based on which representation is selected one a group or all of the resources within the picture library may be contemporaneously manipulated.

Turning to an illustrative screen display depicts a display area or window that includes a listing of libraries. In embodiments of the user initiated operation set of users may be selected. Typically the rights of the selected set of users may be altered upon contemporaneously manipulating the resources within the scope of the pictures library. By way of example specific users may be identified and aggregated into a set of users who will gain rights to the digital image files within the scope of the pictures library as part of the user initiated operation.

Turning now to an illustrative screen display depicts an indication or window that alerts a user whether the resources selected for sharing unsharing or any other type of manipulation were successfully contemporaneously manipulated. As shown a targeted location that has digital image files stored thereon is identified as not being available for sharing. The target location may be unavailable for a variety of reasons as discussed above including being operably decoupled from the operating system. If the manipulation is successful a indication is surfaced alerting a user that the selected resources are shared unshared or otherwise acted on in a contemporaneous manner. This indication is depicted at an illustrative screen display of . In embodiments the indication includes a message that communications each of the targeted locations and that affected by the manipulation.

The present invention has been described in relation to particular embodiments which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its scope.

From the foregoing it will be seen that this invention is one well adapted to attain all the ends and objects set forth above together with other advantages which are obvious and inherent to the system and method. It will be understood that certain features and sub combinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and sub combinations. This is contemplated by and is within the scope of the claims.

