---

title: System and method for delivering content to a user of a telephony device
abstract: A system and method for utilizing information exchanged during an initiation phase (i.e., the “ringing” phase) of a conventional telephone connection request received from a telephony device, in order to identify and provide a user with content or enhanced services. In a convention telephone call the connection request includes information that identifies the user and/or telephony device that placed the phone call (the originating number) and the dialed phone number (the signaling number). The connection request is rejected and the call is terminated Prior to termination of the call the originating dumber and/or signaling number are extracted and used to identify a task that is desired by a user; content associated with the task is delivered to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08705712&OS=08705712&RS=08705712
owner: Anexas, Inc.
number: 08705712
owner_city: Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080411
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Application of PCT International Application No. PCT US2008 060048 titled System and Method for Delivering Content to a User of a Telephony Device filed Apr. 11 2008 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 922 880 filed Apr. 11 2007. The entire disclosures of PCT International Application No. PCT US2008 060048 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 922 880 are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to the utilization of a telephony device to trigger a given event. More specifically the present invention relates to a system and method for utilizing the information exchanged during the initialization of a telephony connection request to effectuate the execution of a desired task.

Many telecommunication networks were originally built to transmit voice traffic from a first fixed point to a second fixed point. Advances in technology now provide users the ability to utilize telecommunication networks to transmit voice data and video from one mobile device to one or more mobile devices.

Despite these advances most users continue to pay usage charges for many functions performed using a telephony device. Whether it be a per minute connection charge or a flat rate unlimited data fee most users pay fees to perform nearly all functions of the modern telecommunication network. However in order for a telephony connection to be initiated a small amount of data must be transmitted from the originating source to the destination. This information in the form of a call request is often transmitted by a telephone service provider free of charge. This call request often comprises information such as the originating telephony device identification and destination node identification.

Despite the fact that most telephone service providers transmit call request information without subjecting users to traditional usage charge the prior art lacks a method and system for utilizing this call request information in order to provide enhanced functionality to telephony users.

The present invention relates to a system and method for utilizing the information exchanged during the initiation phase of a conventional telephone connection request in order to identify and provide users with enhanced services. According to an embodiment of the present invention a content delivery system and methods are enabled to receive a connection request from a telephony device. As with a conventionally placed telephone call the connection request includes information that identifies the user and or telephony device that placed the phone call the originating number and the dialed phone number the signaling number .

During the initiation phase i.e. the period wherein the connection request is transmitted by the telephony device and prior to establishment of the requested connection the content delivery system extracts information related to the connection request and rejects the connection request i.e. actively rejects the connection request or passively allows the telephony device to cancel the request . As a result no connection is established.

The extracted information i.e. the originating number the signaling number or both is associated with and identifies one or more tasks to be executed the desired task s . The content delivery system utilizes the connection request information to identify the one or more desired tasks and delivers content associated with the desired task s to the user.

According to embodiments of the present invention the connection request transmitted by the telephony device operates as a request for the execution of a desired task. Advantageously by extracting the connection request information and terminating rejecting the connection request during the initiation phase of the call i.e. prior to completion of the call no usage charge is assessed to the account of the initiating telephony device. In this regard the user may dial a particular signaling number in order to submit a request for the completion of a desired task the connection request is terminated rejected the desired task is identified and the content associated with the desired task is delivered to the user according to one or more delivery methods of the present invention i.e. an electronic mail a post office mailing a web posting a telephonic communication a short message service SMS message a Wireless Application Protocol WAP push etc. .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the methods and systems allow a user to leverage the free or no cost portion associated with a conventional request to establish a telephone connection i.e. the initiation phase during which a call is placed but terminated prior to completion by providing the user with the ability to submit a request for the execution of a desired task. In response to the submission of the desired task request the systems and methods of the present invention provide the user with the content associated with the desired task.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and may not be to scale.

The present invention relates to a method and a system for delivering content to or on behalf of a user of a telephony device herein referred to as the Content Delivery System . The user includes any person system machine computer and or network that utilizes and or causes a telephony device to access connect to communicate with and or interact with the content delivery system of the present invention. The Telephony Device includes any communications device machine system computer etc. configured to initiate and or establish a telephone connection via a conventional telecommunications network. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the telephony device may be a wireless communications device or a wired communications device i.e. a land line unit . Exemplary telephony devices suitable for use in accordance with the present invention include but are not limited to a conventional land line telephone and mobile phone i.e. a cell phone One having ordinary skill in the art will further appreciate that the telecommunications network may be a wireless network a wired network a Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP network or a combination thereof.

The Content Delivery System is a computer based system accessible by one or more Telephony Devices which includes but is not limited to the following components a Connection Request Information Extraction Module CRIEM a Connection Rejection Module CRM a Desired Task identification Module DTIM and a Delivery Module DM . The term computer or computing device is intended to include any data processing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a mainframe computer a personal digital assistant a server a handheld device or any other device able to process data.

One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the components of the Content Delivery System may be located on a single computer as shown in or on more than one communicatively connected computers. Furthermore each of the components of the Content Delivery System may be comprised of one or more computer executable software application s in combination with one or more computing devices. The term communicatively connected is intended to include any type of connection whether wired or wireless in which data may be communicated. The term communicatively connected is intended to include a connection between devices and or programs within a single computer or between devices and or programs on separate computers.

Although illustrates the components of the Content Delivery System as separate modules one having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the modules may be combined and or integrated on one or more devices.

The Content Delivery System and modules thereof are described herein with reference . According to an embodiment of the present invention a user seeking the performance of a desired task utilizes a Telephony Device to generate a connection request . The term desired task is intended to include but is not limited to one or more jobs events requests for information operations and activities that the user wishes to have performed executed implemented or acted on. The performance of the desired task results in the delivery of content to or on behalf of the user as described in detail below. Exemplary desired tasks include but are not limited to 1 the request for the return of any information such as flight status or sports scores 2 the placement of a purchase order 3 the initiation of an interactive game 4 the activation of a system e.g. a security system or operation of an automatic garage door system and 5 the updating of data in a database or on a Website etc.

The term connection request is intended to include but is not limited to a request to establish a telephone connection with a destination resource i.e. a destination telephony device . The connection request transmitted by the Telephony Device comprises connection request information including but not limited to an originating number and a signaling number. The term originating number is intended to include but is not limited to a telephone number associated with and capable of identifying the telephony device and or the user that submitted the connection request . The term signaling number is intended to include but is not limited to a telephone number associated with and capable of identifying one or more desired tasks.

One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the originating numbers and the signaling numbers may be comprised of any arrangement of numeric alphabet characters and or symbols e.g. and suitable for use in a conventional telephone communications network.

As shown in in step the connection request is transmitted by the Telephony Device and received by the Connection Request Information Extraction Module . In step the Connection Request information Extraction Module extracts at least a portion of the connection request information from the connection request. The extracted connection request information which may be all or a portion of the connection request information is communicated by the Connection Request Information Extraction Module to the Desired Task identification Module for performance of step described below. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the extracted information may be provided directly to the Desired Task identification Module or via the Connection Rejection Module as shown in .

One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the Connection Request Information Extraction Module may be configured to perform the extraction according to known methods and systems suitable for use in accordance with the present invention including but not limited to the use of an Automatic Number Identification method system ANI i.e. for extraction of the originating number and or a Dialed Number identification Service DNIS for extraction of the signaling number .

In step the Connection Rejection Module receives and rejects the connection request . One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the connection request may be rejected according to any suitable method and or system known in the art. For example if the Connection Rejection Module is executing a Session Initiation Protocol SIP the Connection Rejection Module may reject the connection request by transmitting a BUSY message through the use of SIP. Alternatively the Connection Rejection Module may passively reject the connection request by simply not seizing or recognizing the connection request . By not seizing the connection request the user may be presented with continuous ringing thereby providing the user with a cue that the connection will not be connected. Accordingly the user may take the necessary steps to terminate the connection request .

By rejecting the connection request the Connection Rejection Module terminates the call initiated by the Telephony Device . As a result no telephone connection is established between the originating number the Telephony Device and the signaling number. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that step and step may be performed in any order relative to one another and may be performed in series or in parallel with one another.

The time period from transmission of the connection request by the telephony device i.e. placement of the call to rejection of request in step is referred to as the initiation phase of the call. Advantageously in conventional telephone systems telephone service providers typically provide the initiation phase of a call at no charge. This free period is leveraged by the systems and methods of the present invention in that a request for the execution of a desired task may be submitted by a user free of charge. Accordingly given that the connection request is rejected prior to establishment of the call in most cases the Telephony Device that initiated the connection request is not charged a usage fee for submitting the desired task.

Following or in parallel with the rejection of the call request at step the identity of the desired task is determined by the Desired Task Identification Module at step . The Desired Task Identification Module identifies the desired task based the extracted connection request information. According to an embodiment of the present invention the Desired Task Identification Module is communicatively connected to a database configured to store information relating to the identity of a desired task such as for example a plurality of profiles and associations described below.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a profile may be established and stored in the database which links one or more desired tasks to a particular user and or Telephony Device . An association may be established and stored in the database which links or relates one or more desired tasks to an originating number a signaling number and or a combination of both.

For example a user referred to as John Doe may establish a profile which provides that when he submits a connection request from either of his Telephony Devices 1 his mobile phone originating number 123 555 1234 and or 2 his home phone originating number 123 555 1234 to any of the signaling numbers associated with the Content Delivery System of the present invention he wishes to have the current price of ten pre selected stocks herein the John Doe portfolio sent to him via an electronic mail communication. Upon extraction of originating number 123 555 1234 from a connection request the Desired Task Identification Module links said number to the John Doe profile and identifies the desired task associated with that profile i.e. return the current stock price for the John Doe portfolio .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Desired Task identification Module may be configured to identify the one or more desired tasks through the use of a hash table or like data structure wherein the hash table is configured to store profiles associations or other information associated with the identity of a desired task.

With reference to Table 1 below the following section provides a number of examples of the identification of the desired task based on the extracted connect request information. In these examples the originating number and the signaling number are expressed according to the following standard convention Area. Code Prefix Line Number. As shown in Table 1 three separate connection requests Connection Request Nos. 1 3 are received by the Connection Request. Information Extraction Module of the present invention. For Connection Request No. 1 the Connection Request Information Extraction Module extracts the time of the call 3 00 00 the originating number 999 555 1234 and the signaling number 999 555 4321 . Using the extracted information the Connection Request Information Extraction Module queries the database determines the associations related to the combination of the extracted originating number and the extracted signaling number and identifies the desired task s i.e. return of the current time and temperature in Newark N.J. .

In the second example the Connection Request Information Extraction Module extracts the time of the call 3 00 30 and the signaling number 999 ABC 4444 . In this example the signaling number 999 ABC 4444 is associated with a particular desired task which enables the Desired Task Identification Module to determine that the user is seeking the current flight status of ABC Airline Flight Number 4444. As demonstrated by this example the numbers comprising the signaling number may be selected in a manner in which the numbers themselves have a logical relationship to the underlying task. As shown here the prefix portion of the signaling number ABC represents the name of the airline and the line number portion of the signaling number represents the flight number.

In the third example the Connection Request Information Extraction Module extracts the tune of the call 3 01 00 the originating number 900 555 7777 and the signaling number 999 555 8888 . In this example the Desired Task identification Module identifies a profile related to the originating number wherein the profile indicates that a connection request transmitted with this particular originating number to this particular signaling number relates to a desired task defined as the return of the current sports scores for all professional teams within a certain geographic radius of the territory covered by area code 900 . Advantageously the profile may be pre established by a user to define any number and type of desired tasks to be triggered by the one or more originating numbers controlled by that user.

Following identification of the one or more desired tasks in step the Delivery Module generates retrieves obtains accesses and or determines the content associated with the desired task and delivers the content to the user. The content may include but is not limited to any information that is associated with the desired task. With reference to the first example described above in regard to Table 1 the content associated with the desired task is the temperature reading for Newark N.J. at the time and date the connection request is received.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Delivery Module may be communicatively connected to one or more Resources configured to store generate serve transmit supply or provide the content associated with the desired task to the Delivery Module . Exemplary Resources suitable for use in accordance with the present invention include any known provider of information both electronic based and otherwise such as websites databases computer readable media books etc. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the Delivery Module may deliver the content to the user in any suitable method modes systems or processes of communications including but not limited to electronic mail web based posting or other web based communication collectively an Internet based communication a short message service SMS communication a text message communication a postal mail communication personal delivery and a return telephone communication. It is further noted that the content need not necessarily be delivered to the Telephony Device from which the connection request originated. Instead the content may be delivered directly to 1 the user e.g. the delivery of a food the content to the user s home address 2 any device other than the Telephony Device that transmitted the connection request including a device associated with the user the user s electronic mail address and for 3 a deuce associated with another user e.g. a phone of a buddy of the ser . Delivery locations such as the user s address information associated device information and the user s buddy information may be stored as part of the user s profile.

With reference to the second example described above in regard to Table 1 the Delivery Module may contact the ABC airline website the Resource and deliver the status of flight 4444 to the user s telephony device via a short message service SMS message.

The Delivery Module may deliver the content via a free service such as the transmission of a communication e.g. an electronic mail communication a conventional postal mail communication or a telephonic communication or a paid service such as transmitting a SMS communication where a telephone service providers charges for the transmission of the SMS message. Additional desired task may include but are not limited to requests for information from a remote data network e.g. flight status stock quote sports score initiation of an interactive game or placement of a purchase order. It is important to note that even though the triggering of a desired task may be free a use may still be charged fees for delivery of the associated content. For example a telephony device may call a signaling number that triggers the desired task of receiving an SMS message that contains the local weather. In this example a telephony device that is charged for each SMS message received will be charged a fee as a result of the desired task. In contrast a telephony device may call a signaling number that triggers the desired task of receiving an e mail that contains the local weather. In this example the act of receiving the e mail containing the local weather does not result in the accrual of a fee.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the desired task and or associated content may be location specific such that the physical location of the Telephony Device initiating the connection request is considered in defining the task and or content Location specific services ma be provided by adding integrating incorporating or including Global Positioning System GPS or other positioning information into the connection request information. For example the current location of the Telephony Device i.e. location information may be determined by a GPS based application operating on the Telephony Device and added to the connection request information. Alternately the location information may be obtained from a Resource by using connection request information. The location information may be extracted and used to identify the desired task and related content. For example a Telephony Device located in Newark N.J. may initiate a connection request to a signaling number of 999 555 5555 which is associated with the general task of returning the local weather Next the Desired Task identification Module may examine the location information to determine the location for which the weather information is desired. Alternatively the location of the user and or Telephony Device may be encoded as part of the originating number and or the signaling number.

The Content Delivery System of the present invention may include computer based application programs i.e. software hardware components and or a combination of both configured to operate on a server residing in a telecommunications network. The Content Delivery System may be established in whole or in part on a network node of the telecommunications network such as for example a server which may be associated with a telephone service provider.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Content Delivery System may be configured to receive multiple connection requests from numerous different origins including any number of different telephone networks. Furthermore the Content Delivery System may be configured to receive connection requests from traditional telephone networks wired and wireless as well as VOIP networks.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Content Delivery System may be configured as a network node communicatively connected to a portion of an existing telephone network herein a telephone network computer . The Content Delivery System may direct and or control the operation and functionality of the telephone network computer and provide the telephone network computer with guidelines instructions and commands concerning incoming connection requests . This information may include the destination for which a connection request should be transferred as a well the way in which such information is transferred. For example the Content Delivery System may instruct the telephone network computer to transmit certain connection requests to the Content Delivery System for further processing or instruct the telephone network computer to transfer reject drop or connect a connection request. Communication with and configuration of the telephone network computer may be performed through a web based interface or via another computer in the telecommunications network.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Content Delivery System may be configured to deliver particular content based solely on the signaling number in a manner which is independent of the originating number. For example the methods and systems of the present invention may be configured to dispatch an SMS message containing the current stock price of Google in response to every connection request received including a particular signaling number.

As discussed above the Content Delivery System may be implemented as a software program application or applet operating on the Telephony Device . The Telephony Device may include a graphical user interface GUI whereby a user may initiate a connection request via an interaction with the GUI i.e. clicking a button on the GUI to input a command . The GUI and associated links may be associated with signaling numbers according to the present invention such that an interaction with the GUI results in the transmission of one or more connection requests including a signaling number. According to this embodiment the user of the Telephony Device does not need to dial a signaling number but instead may use the GUI to effectuate the initiation of a connection request for processing by the Content Delivery System . Advantageously the GUI presents the user with information to allow the user to select a desired task without the user having to determine the signaling number associated with the desired task.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Content Delivery System may upload or download a list of signaling numbers for storage on access by the Telephony Device . The signaling numbers may be stored in the Telephony Device in any suitable manner including but not limited to by pre programming by a telephony device manufacturer a dynamic update or upload from the Content Delivery System manual input by the user of the Telephony Device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the methods and systems of the present invention may be implemented using a combination of device side elements and related functionality and network side elements and related functionality as shown in . The device side elements comprise a Telephony Device including a Signaling Client and a Telephony Device Applet . The network side elements may be implemented using a single computer or server under the control of a single entity or a network of computers or servers under the control of multiple entities. The network side elements comprise a Telephony Server an Application Server and a Signaling Server .

One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the embodiments of the content delivery systems and methods described below with reference to may be implemented and embodied by the modules and functionality of the Content Delivery System described in conjunction with .

With reference to as indicated above the device side i.e. Telephony Device comprising the Signaling Client and the Telephony Device Applet . The Signaling Client is a software application program which enables functionality of the Content Delivery System . The Signaling Client may be configured as a passive i.e. a thin client or an active or sophisticated device i.e. a fat client . If the Telephony Device is a programmable device e.g. a mobile phone or a programmable SIP phone the Signaling Client may be implemented as an application operable on any suitable platform such as Java ME Mobile Edition Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW Symbian or Windows Mobile. According to embodiments of the present invention the Signaling Client may be installed by the Telephony Device manufacturer by the mobile network operator or by the user through an appropriate provisioning or installation process.

The Signaling Client may be provided information by network side entities about the signaling numbers. This information may be pre configured in the Signaling Client when it is installed or it may be a part of a runtime executable program or application. The signaling numbers may be provided dynamically or periodically updated either on demand by the Signaling Client or pushed to the Signaling Client by the one or more network side entities . Any one or more suitable methods of providing the signaling numbers may be used to the Signaling Client may be implemented. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other suitable methods may be used to maintain the set of signaling numbers on the Signaling Client . Preferably the set of signaling numbers may be maintained in persistent storage e.g. flash memory on the Telephony Device to enable that data to persist in the Telephony Device even after it is powered down and restarted.

If it is running on a programmable device the Signaling Client may interact with the phone network using a telephony Application Programming Interface API available in the Telephony Device . The telephony API is provided by the programming environment supported in the Telephony Device e.g. Java ME Mobile Edition Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW Symbian or Windows Mobile in mobile phones. The Signaling Client uses this API to place calls to be notified of incoming calls and to cancel calls both incoming and outgoing . The Signaling Client may be configured to manipulate manage control and or intemperate with the signaling numbers such that calls to and from other telephone numbers i.e. non signaling numbers are processed according to the normal functionality systems and processes of the Telephony Device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention wherein the Telephony Device is a programmable device it may comprise a Telephony Device Applet as shown in . One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that if the Telephony Device is a non programmable device such as an ordinary analog phone the Telephony Device Applet is absent. In a programmable device like a mobile phone or a programmable SIP phone the Telephony Device Applet is implemented as an application operating on a suitable platform like Java ME Mobile Edition BREW Symbian or Windows Mobile that is available on Telephony Device .

The Telephony Device Applet may be installed by the device manufacturer by the mobile network operator or by the end user through an appropriate provisioning or installation process. The Telephony Device Applet may also be implemented as a behavior of the Signaling Client and may be dynamically installed and activated by the Signaling Client .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Telephony Device Applet may be created by the same administrative authority as the Signaling Client and use the Signaling Client for signaling. Multiple Telephony Device Applets created by independent administrative authorities may run side by side using the Signaling. Client for signaling.

The Telephony Device Applet is responsible for presenting a graphical user interface GUI to the user presenting appropriate data to the user managing the display etc. The Telephony Device Applet utilizes the Signaling Client to send connection requests e.g. by invoking methods of an API or some equivalent communication method in the device. The Telephony Device Applet is notified of the arrival of a connection request from the server side by the Signaling Client via the invocation of one or more methods of an API or some equivalent communication method in the Telephony Device .

The Telephony Device Applet is configured to identify the appropriate signaling number associated with a desired task. According to embodiments of the present invention the signaling number desired task associations may be pre configured in the Telephony Device Applet when it is installed provided to the Telephony Device Applet when it starts to run and or provided dynamically or periodically updated either on demand by the Telephony Device Applet or pushed to Telephony Device Applet by one or more network side entities.

As provided above the network side of the content delivery environment of the present invention comprises the Telephony Server the Application Server and the Signaling Server . The Telephony Server comprises a network side computer based element that receives the physical telecommunications communications of the methods and systems of the present invention from the conventional telephone network. The Telephony Server may be physically interconnected to the telephone network e.g. via a connection involving the termination of an SS7 signaling link or it may be a logical link over an Internet Protocol IP or equivalent data network . The Telephony Server may also be integrated in the systems and methods of the present invention by being implemented inside existing telephony signaling equipment. The Telephony Server may be implemented on either the calling or called side of the telephone network. Furthermore the Telephony Server may be implemented by the operator of the signaling service outside of a phone network. The Telephony Server may be implemented on a single computer or equivalently on a collection of computers interconnected by a communication network e.g. for redundancy fail over fault tolerance and scaling etc.

The Telephony Server is configured to place and receive connection requests and calls from multiple telephony devices on the telephone network and may span multiple phone networks. According to an embodiment of the present invention the Telephony Server is implemented as a VOW protocol application server e.g. a Session Initiation Protocol SIP application server a Parlay OSA application server an IN Intelligent Network WIN Wireless Intelligent Network application or as a server implemented using any other equivalent telecommunications equipment programming API.

The Telephony Server is configured to receive connection requests for incoming calls directed to at least a portion of the signaling numbers. According to an embodiment of the present invention the signaling numbers that the Telephony Server is adapted to receive are provisioned when the Telephony Server is interconnected to the telephone network to allow the telephone network to appropriately route or deliver such incoming calls to the Telephony Server .

For example the Signaling Server administrator may set up an account for the Telephony Server administrator. The Signaling Server provides an administrative interface e.g. a web based interface that enables the Telephony Server administrator to maintain the set of numbers that the Telephony Server is responsible for i.e. the signaling numbers . The Telephony Server administrator uses the interface to add review update and delete signaling numbers handled by the Telephony Server . The Telephony Server administrator may also use the interface to specify how the Signaling Server communicates with the Telephony Server . For example the administrator may specify a URL to which the Signaling Server may send directives for processing by the Telephony Server . One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the Telephony Server may be configured to support other known methods of communication with the Signaling Server .

The Telephony Server may be implemented as a single server or as a collection of servers optionally within multiple administrative domains. The Telephony Server may handle incoming calls for all or for only a subset of the signaling numbers. In an exemplary embodiment the phone network notifies the Telephony Server of an incoming call. For example in a SIP implementation the incoming connection request call is noted by the arrival of an INVITE message in the SIP protocol. The Telephony Server notifies the Signaling Server of the connection request and provides the Signaling Server with the connection request information. For example this may be done by sending an HTTP protocol message to the Signaling Server . The Telephony Server may use other known methods to notify the Signaling Server of the connection request.

The Telephony Server rejects the connection request prior to completion thereof thus incurring no charge to the caller. For example in a SIP implementation the Telephony Server may reject the connection request by sending a BUSY message in the SIP protocol. Other methods of rejecting the call may be implemented allowing the connection request to continue to ring till it is cancelled by the Telephony Device or by transferring the connection request to a different server that in turn prevents completion of the call.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Telephony Server is configured to transfer incoming connection requests under directive from the Signaling Server . For example the Signaling Server may ask the Telephony Server to transfer the connection request to a different entity such as a media server enabled to play an announcement or present data in audible form. The transfer directive comprises information such as the phone number to transfer the connection request to and other information that may be useful for the Telephony Server . For example in a SIP implementation the Telephony Server may transfer the connection request by executing a REDIRECT using the SIP protocol or other like methods for transferring the connection request.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Telephony Server is configured to place calls with a called party pursuant to directives received from the Signaling Server . The Telephony Server may receive the directive from a Signaling Server as a HTTP protocol message or other suitable method of communication. The directive may comprise the signaling number the originating number and related information that may be useful for the Telephony Server . The Telephony Server is configured to reject any calls that it places under directives from the Signaling Server . The directive to cancel a call may be delivered along with the directive to place a call e.g. a request to connect to signaling number 12345 including a directive to reject or terminate the call after 5 seconds if it was not already rejected cancelled. 

According to embodiments of the present invention the network side of the content delivery environment comprises the Application Server a computer configured to execute applications according to the content delivery methods and systems of the present invention. The Application Server may be implemented using standard programming languages such as for example C Java PHP Ruby as configured for a server environment. The Application Server may interface with one or more Signaling Servers including those that do not reside in the same administrative domain. For example the Application Server may be operated by a weather reporting service while the Signaling Service may be operated by a separate signaling service operator. The Application Server is also configured to communicate with the Telephony Device Applet .

The Signaling Server is a network side element configured to receive and process logical connection requests connection request information and or instructions from the Telephony Server according to the content delivery systems and methods of the present invention. The Signaling Server processes the connection request information interacts with the Application Server to infuse application specific logic and actions and or if instructed by the Application Server to do so the Signaling Server instructs the Telephony Server to reject place transfer cancel calls to the Telephony Device and to deliver content thereto. The Signaling Server may also be configured to transmit other data e.g. connection request information such as the signaling number s etc. to the Telephony Device .

The Signaling Server may be hardware software combination implemented using conventional programming platforms supported in a typical computer server environment such as C Java PHP Ruby etc. The Signaling Server may be communicatively connected to and interface with one or more Telephony Servers Application Servers and or Signaling Clients from one or multiple networks or administrative domains. The Signaling Server tray be implemented on a single physical computer or on a networked collection of computers to allow for redundancy fail over fault tolerance and scaling.

The Signaling Server administrator may be authorized to set up an account for every Telephony Server and Application Server administrator to allow the administrators to interact with the content delivery system of the present invention. In so doing the Signal Server administrator provides the Telephony Server and the Application Server administrators with information needed to configure the Telephony Server and Application Server to communicate with the Signaling Server such as for example URLs and or descriptions of the program interface authentication credentials etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server is configured to receive connection request information from a Telephony Server in any suitable communication format e.g. an HTTP protocol message . As provided above the connection request information may comprise the originating number the signaling number and other related information. Upon receipt of the connection request information from a Telephony Server the Signaling Server creates an instance of the applet described in the Applet Descriptor unless one already exists for that connection request and or desired task. An instance is a data structure that contains the runtime data needed to maintain state and to perform the desired task. Importantly multiple instances of applets using the same Applet Descriptor may exist at the same time each representing a separate connection request interaction.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server may send instructions or directives to the Telephony Server to transfer the connection place a call to from a signaling number or reject cancel the connection request. The Signaling Server is configured to maintain a list of signaling numbers and related associations. The Signaling Server may provide an administrative interface that allows one or more Telephony Server administrators to maintain the review modify access and or change the signaling numbers for which the Telephony Server maintains responsibility.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server is responsible for transmitting the one or more signaling numbers to the Signaling Client . For example this information may be conveyed to the Signaling Client as part of the installation process or at the time the Signaling Client is initially launched. This information may be conveyed to the Signaling Client when it runs for the first time. The signaling numbers and related information may be conveyed dynamically to the Signaling Client and periodically updated by the Signaling Server . The signaling numbers may be transmitted to the Signaling Client via a SMS communication as the payload of the message via the use of a message that directs the Signaling Client to establish a data connection to fetch the relevant data other conventional data transmission methods or a combination thereof.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server may publish a set of signaling numbers either directly or via a third party. In this embodiment users may load these available signaling numbers into their phone contact lists. Furthermore users may use other facilities to automatically install the signaling numbers into their phone contact lists which is particularly beneficial for non programmable Telephony Devices or Telephony Devices with no Signaling Client installed.

The Application Server administrator creates Applet Descriptors and uploads them to the Signaling Server . The term Applet Descriptor is intended to include but is not limited to a software application capable of execution within another software program. The Applet Descriptor may be configured as a script for the Signaling Server executed on behalf of the Application Server . The Applet Descriptors allow the Signaling Server to infuse Application Server specific information and or behavior into the connection request information and or creation of Application Descriptors that deliver enhanced value to the user.

The Applet Descriptor comprises the originating number the signaling number a telephony action code comprising instructions to the Telephony Server regarding handling of the connection request i.e. CANCEL COMPLETE CANCEL etc. information related to the desired task and or information related to the content associated with the desired task i.e. information that identifies the appropriate Resource associated with the content to be delivered to the user . The telephony action code specifies what to do with the incoming call carrying the connection request . And the application action usually specifies a URL pointing at a Resource controlled by the Application Server administrator where the Application Server can execute arbitrary program code of its choosing. The Application Server sends a responsive document or instructions referred to as a Signaling Descriptor to the Signaling Server comprising instructions regarding the steps to be taken.

The Application Server responds to receipt of the desired task i.e. the access of appURL via a Signaling Descriptor. The Signaling Descriptor is a script for the Signaling. Server that is configured to instruct the Signaling Server if any subsequent action is required. The Signaling Descriptor may be in the form of a simple text document a rich XML document or other suitable file program types. The Signaling Descriptor may comprise any communication related information such as the desired task i.e. the requested action and the data that may be needed for execution of the desired task.

Note that the actual syntax of the Applet Descriptor and Signaling Descriptor is not significant. These Descriptions may be expressed in many different ways and in many different programming languages with the important consideration being that the Application Server is able to specify to the Signaling Server the details of a connection request including the numbers the application uses to receive and send messages and how the Application Server is involved in handling a received communication. According to an embodiment of the present invention the Application Server may execute arbitrary logic upon receipt of a connection request using data passed to it by the Signaling Server along with any other data that the Application Server has access to and then may direct the Signaling Server to perform some action using data that it passes to the Signaling Server . Alternately the Application Server may spontaneously direct the Signaling Server to perform some action e.g. deliver content .

There are no restrictions on the amount of information that may be passed between the Application Server and the Signaling Server . For example the Applet Descriptor may contain multiple catch specifications to trap different connection requests and likewise the Signaling Descriptor may contain multiple actions. A session identifier or cookie may be used between Application Server and Signaling Server to allow the application operating thereon to keep track of the state of an interaction across multiple connection request exchanges. Likewise the Signaling Server and the Application Server may communicate more data using any equivalent data exchange mechanism.

The following is an exemplary Applet Descriptor relating to a voting application utilized by users of the content delivery system and methods of the present invention in this example the Applet Descriptor provides 

The following is an exemplary Applet Descriptor that relates to the playing of a game of Tic Tac Toe between to users of the content delivery system and methods of the present invention. In this example the Applet Descriptor provides 

The Signaling Server starts a session when the startGame signal is received and passes the session identifier to the Application Server . The Application Server uses the session identifier to keep track of a game across several signals. The Signaling Server may then end the session when the endgame signal is received.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server is responsible for maintaining the set of active User Applets based on the set of active Applet Descriptors described in detail below. It provides an administrative interface that allows an Application Server administrator to maintain the set of Applet Descriptors that the Application Server is responsible for. The Signaling Server is configured to interface with one or more Application Servers wherein the active Applet Descriptors of all the Application Servers that the Signaling Server connects to constitute the Signaling Server s active Applet Descriptor set.

The Signaling Server is configured to propagate information about the active Applet Descriptors to the Signaling Client . This information may be conveyed to the Signaling Client as part of the installation process i.e. when the Signaling Client is installed or when the Telephony Device Applet is installed or conveyed to the Signaling Client when it runs for the first time. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that this information may be conveyed dynamically to the Signaling Client and periodically updated by the Signaling Server . The active Applet Descriptors may be transmitted to the Signaling Client via any suitable communications channel or method such as for example via the payload of a SMS message or via a message directing the Signaling Client to establish a data connection to fetch the relevant data. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any combination of these methods any other suitable methods may be used to communication this data into the Signaling Client .

The Applet Descriptor information that is passed to the Signaling Client and Telephony Device Applet by the Signaling Server is extracted from the Applet Descriptor. The Applet Descriptor information may comprise the connection request information including for example the originating number i.e. the callerPattern information the signaling number the calledPattern information and desired task information the appAction data from the catchSignal specification and the sendSignal specification. This information provides context information to the Signaling Client Telephony Device Applet about the connection requests that are needed to implement the desired task s and deliver the related content. The Applet Descriptor information may be used by the Telephony Device Applet to present an appropriate user interface to the user and provides information about the desired task s to be performed when the user or application triggers a particular interaction i.e. via an interaction with the user interface such as clicking on an icon .

When the Signaling Server receives a Signaling Descriptor from an Application Server with and endAction action such as the following 

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Client may be enabled to perform one or more functions that require an active state to be maintained whereby a session is established between the Telephony Device and the Telephony Server the Application Server and or the Signaling Server . In such an embodiment the Signaling Client is configured to store information from previous interactions with the network side elements thereby allowing for future communications to utilize historical information. For example the Signaling Client may receive information that it may not be capable of processing at a given time however by maintaining an active state the applet may access the information or request a retransmission once processing can begin. The ability to maintain a state may also be used in order to perform desired tasks that require a series of interactions between the Signaling Client and the network side elements. In certain embodiments of the present invention the state of the Telephony Device may be maintained whether the Telephony Device is an on or off state. For example the Signaling Client may store information received while the user is on a call that may not be processed because the Telephony Device does not support the use of applications while a all is in progress.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Client may maintain shared context in cooperation with network side entities. This information may be pre configured in the Signaling Client when it is installed. Alternately this information may be provided to the Signaling Client at runtime or dynamically provided and periodically updated either on demand by the Signaling Client or by being pushed to the Signaling Client by one or more of the network side elements .

As provided above the Applet Descriptors describe and define the interaction from the Signaling Server to the Application Server . Furthermore the Application Server generates Signaling Descriptors that describe and define the interaction from the Application Server to the Signaling Server . According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server may be configured to support the use of symbolic signaling numbers SSN to convey information related to the connection request. According to this shortened numbering convention the same amount of information as would be conveyed using the full originating number and the signaling number may be conveyed using a symbolic or shortened identifier. For example instead of transmitting the originating number 123 555 1234 and the signaling number 987 555 9876 through use of SSN a shortened identifier of 1234 1 may be assigned to the connection request and processed according to the content delivery systems and methods of the present invention. The Signaling Server may be configured to properly decipher the SSN message. For example the 1234 1 identifier may be associated with the desired task of return content related to a first pre set task associated with originating number 123 555 1234 . As described above the desired task associations may be stored in a hash table or like data structure. Therefore through use of SSN the Signaling Server may process a given connection request without transmitting a complete originating number signaling number pair. The following example illustrates an Applet Descriptor using symbolic signaling numbers 1002 1 and 1002 2 

While some of the applications according to the present invention are based on signaling numbers provided by the public telephone network e.g. a signaling number that encodes an airline as well as a flight number or a signaling number that triggers the sending of a coupon by electronic mail many applications do not need to use a public signaling number. For example wherein the application is a conventional Tic Tac Toe game the content delivery system and methods of the present invention do not care about the specific signaling number used to request a particular game move as long as the content delivery systems and methods are able to unambiguously determine what game move the user is requesting.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server may be configured to support such applications via Managed Signaling Numbers MSN . Managed Signaling Numbers may be selected from a pool of signaling numbers that are supported by connected Telephony Servers but not explicitly referenced in any Applet Descriptors and are also not explicitly publicized i.e. not public signaling numbers . The Applet Descriptors for such applications contain only symbolic signaling numbers. The Signaling Server dynamically determines which signaling number from its pool of Managed Signaling Numbers to allocate to a particular connection request. Importantly only the originating numbers need to be allocated when the Apple Descriptor is activated. Also different phone numbers can be used for different Signaling Clients . Other phone numbers for subsequent interaction if any in an applet may be committed after the signaling sequence starts i.e. when the Signaling Server instantiates the applet. Note that this will require communication with the Signaling Client to bring its shared context up to date. Also phone numbers need to be committed only for the duration of the signaling interaction. Subsequently the signaling number may be returned to the pool of available Managed Signaling Numbers for re use.

The use of the Managed Signaling Numbers method provides the Signaling Server with increased flexibility functionality and benefits including but not limited to signaling load reduction load balancing user privacy and protection against distributed denial of service attacks as described in detail in the following paragraphs.

Signaling Load Reduction According to art embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server may use knowledge of the location of devices with Signaling Clients to select signaling numbers from the MSN pool that are close to the Telephony Device from the network perspective. For example through a separate communication channel the Signaling Server may discover that a Signaling Client is roaming on a different phone network i.e. the visited network and may switch to using a signaling number associated with Telephony Servers in the visited network. Similarly through a separate communication channel the Signaling Server may discover that a Signaling Client is in a particular part of a mobile network operator s phone network and may switch to using a signaling number associated with Telephony Servers in the proximity. As such this technique may be used to minimize the load on the backbone telecommunications network.

Load Balancing According to an embodiment of the present invention the Signaling Server uses knowledge of the load in the telecommunications network to balance the signaling load from the network perspective. For example through information that it maintains or through a separate communication channel the Signaling Server may determine that some Telephony Servers are over loaded while others are idle and may switch to using signaling numbers associated with lightly loaded Telephony Servers . As such this technique may be used to balance the load on the telecomm signaling network and avoid overload and hotspots.

User Privacy Since the signaling numbers associated with different applications and desired tasks may change using the Managed Signaling Numbers method and may be different for different Signaling Clients a remote entity is prevented from tracking and analyzing the signaling numbers to infer what applications a user is using.

Protection against Distributed Denial of Service Attacks Since the signaling numbers associated with different applications may change using the Managed Signaling Numbers method and may be different for different Signaling Client a remote entity is restricted from easily conducting a distributed denial of service attack against a particular application.

In step the Telephony Device Applet updates its internal state a well as the user interface identified as UI in the Figures that is presented to the user if needed. Optionally the Telephony Device Applet may receive data from the Application Server identified as AS in the Figures spontaneously or in response to a signal either directly or through the Signaling Client and then subsequently updates internal state as well as the user interface that is presented to the user in step . Optionally the user may repeatedly use the Telephony Device Applet to submit multiple connection requests. Finally in step the Telephony Device Applet terminates when the user ends the application.

If the Signaling Client receives a signal from the Signaling Server in the form of an incoming call from a signaling number identified as SN in the Figures it rejects the call if necessary in step . The Signaling Client may then optionally store the received signal in its local state in step . In step the Signaling Client identifies the appropriate Telephony Device Applet that it must send the signal to based on information in the Applet Descriptor and signals the target Telephony Device Applet . Optionally the Signaling Client may receive data from the Signaling Server and updates the signaling number set the Applet Descriptor set and the state information of the Telephony Device Applet in step and notifies the Telephony Device Applet of relevant updates in step . If the user resets the Signaling Client it sends a reset signal to the Signaling Server in step . If the user resets the Signaling Client or if a reset signal is received from the Signaling Server the Signaling Client resets state to a checkpoint in step .

If the Telephony Server receives a CANCEL i.e. reject instruction from the Signaling Server it rejects cancels the call in step . If the Telephony Server receives a TRANSFER instruction from the Signaling Server it transfers the call to the specified number in step . If the Telephony Server receives a SIGNAL instruction from the Signaling Server it places a call to the specified signaling number from the specified originating number in step . If the SIGNAL specifies that the call needs to be cancelled after a specific time the Telephony Server starts a timer to reject cancel the call after that time and then reject cancels the call at the appropriate time in step . Otherwise the Telephony Server waits for a CANCEL instruction from the Signaling Server as described above.

In step the Application Server determines the subsequent action for the Signaling Server and creates an associated Signaling Descriptor and in step the Application Server provides the Signaling Descriptor to the Signaling Server . The Application Server may use the Signaling Descriptor to transmit data to the Telephony Device Applet send content to a Resource a user Application Server or Web server transfer the call to a different server send instructions to the Signaling Server to standby or end the signaling interaction. The Application Server may spontaneously have the Signaling Server take some action by creating a Signaling Descriptor in step and transmitting the Signaling Descriptor to the Signaling Server in step .

Optionally the Signaling Server may be configured to create a Cancel Before Notify set for each Telephony Server using information from the Applet Descriptors in step . If the Signaling Server is using symbolic signaling numbers it may build and maintain a lookup table in step . If the Signaling Server is using a Managed Signaling Number method it determines and maintains the signaling number set for use by the Signaling Clients in step .

Optionally the Signaling Server may be configured to manipulate the signaling number set to do load balancing by distributing signaling load in step . Optionally the Signaling Server manipulates the signaling number set to do load reduction by distributing signaling load. step . If needed the Signaling Server transmits the signaling number set and related information to the Signaling Clients in step . Also if needed the Signaling Server transmits shared context data to the Signaling Clients as shown in step . This may include the relevant signaling number set Applet Descriptors and or information related to the state of the Telephony Device Applet . If necessary in step the Signaling Server may send a reset signal to the one or more Signaling Clients thereby placing the one or more Signaling Clients in a state known to the Signaling Server i.e. a checkpoint .

Upon receipt by the Signaling Server of a notification from a Telephony Server the Signaling Server determines the appropriate Applet Descriptor based on the Called Number in the Telephony Server notification in step instantiates and starts an applet for this signaling interaction unless one had already been instantiated in step and updates the applet context and executes the specification provided in the Applet Descriptor in the context of the applet in step .

If the Applet Descriptor specifies canceling the call the Signaling Server directs the Telephony Server to cancel the call in step . If the Applet Descriptor specifies starting a session in the applet the Signaling Server starts a session and updates the applet s context in step .

Next in step the Signaling Server sends a notification to the designated Application Server as specified in the Applet Descriptor along whit the appropriate data. In step the Signaling Server receives a Signaling Descriptor in the response from the Application Sewer such receipt may be the result of a spontaneous transmission from the Application Server . Next in step the Signaling Server processes the Signaling Descriptor received from the Application Server . If the Application Server requests that a signal be sent the Signaling Server directs the appropriate Telephony Server to send the signal as shown in step . Alternatively if the Application Server requests the call be transferred the Signaling Server directs the appropriate Telephony Server to transfer the call as shown in step . Likewise if the Application Server requests cancellation of the call the Signaling Server directs the appropriate Telephony Server to cancel the call in step .

In step if the Application Server wants to send data to the Telephony Device Applet the Signaling Server transmits the appropriate data to the Signaling Client . In step if the Application Server wants to end the session for an applet the Signaling Server deans out the session state and updates the applet s context. Finally in step if the Application Server wants to end the signaling interaction the Signaling Server clears the state information and terminates the applet instance.

The following section provides a number of exemplary applications illustrating various uses of the Content Delivery System and related methods according to embodiments of the present invention and in no way act as a limitation on the uses functions and or operation of the content delivery systems and methods of the present invention.

A mobile phone user calls a specific signaling number provided by a store publicized in a local newspaper advertisement to obtain a coupon the desired task . The content delivery system of the present invention receives the connection request extracts the connection request information and rejects the request prior to completion of the connection incurring no charge for the user. The content delivery system of the present invention sends an SMS message containing a coupon i.e. the content to the mobile phone using the originating number . For users who have free incoming SMS there is no cost to the subscriber.

A wireline user has his phone number as well as an e mail address on record with a department store shared context established offline . The user calls a specific signaling number provided by the store e.g. publicized in a TV advertisement in order to obtain a coupon the desired task . The content delivery system of the present invention receives the connection request extracts the connection request information and rejects the request incurring no charge for the user. The content delivery system of the present invention looks up the e mail address associated with the originating number and sends an e mail message containing a coupon to the user i.e. delivery of the content .

A mobile phone user calls a signaling number provided by an information producer wherein the signaling number encodes the information producer as well as the information that the user is seeking the desired task . For example Continental Airlines may ask users to call 1 600 CON XXXX where CON represents Continental Airlines and XXXX represents the flight number prefixed by zeros for flight numbers of less than four digits when they want up to date flight information for that flight. The content delivery system of the present invention receives the connection request extracts the connection request information and rejects the request incurring no charge for the user. The content delivery system of the present invention identifies the desired task based on the signaling number and sends an SMS message containing the requested flight information to the mobile phone using the originating number . For users who have free incoming SMS there is no cost to the subscriber.

The content delivery system of the present invention maintains a list of places that it has weather information about. This data is mirrored in a mobile phone application shared context established offline . Via a user interface the user picks one of these places and presses a button asking for a weather report. The mobile phone dials a specific signaling number corresponding to that place. The content delivery system of the present invention receives the connection request extracts the connection request information and rejects the request incurring no charge for the user. The content delivery system of the present invention determines based on shared context the originating number and the signaling number the location for which the weather update is requested i.e. the desired task . The content delivery system of the present invention sends an SMS message with the appropriate weather information to the user s mobile phone using the originating number . For users who have free incoming SMS there is no cost to the subscriber. Similarly the content delivery system of the present invention may maintain directory information for local businesses yellow panes information store hours flight bus tram status etc. in general any content that a user may desired. The users interact with a user interface to pick an item from the list and using the above described procedure obtain the content he or she desires

A TV show may invite users to vote for their favorite participant by displaying a list of signaling numbers on the screen one per contestant. A wireline phone user may submit a connection request to the signaling number corresponding to the participant that he or she wishes to vote for. The content delivery system of the present invention receives the connection request extracts the connection request information and rejects the request incurring no charge for the user. The content delivery system of the present invention determines the desired task based on the originating number and the signaling number and registers the vote here the delivery of the content comprises registration of the vote . In an alternate example the mobile phone user may utilize a user interface for the TV show shared context established offline to view the voting options. The user selects one of the voting options and interacts with the associated icon. The mobile phone dials a specific signaling number corresponding to the selected vote. The content delivery system of the present invention receives the connection request extract the connection request information and rejects the request incurring no charge for the user. The content delivery system of the present invention determines the desired action the requested vote and based on shared context the originating number and the signaling number and registers the vote.

The foregoing description corresponding figures and examples are provided to illustrate an understanding of the principles of the present invention and various modifications may be made by those skilled in the an without departing from the scope of the present invention described herein. Therefore one skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be practiced by other than the described embodiments which are presented herein for purposes of illustration.

