---

title: Apparatus for enhancing a filter component of a smoking article, and associated method
abstract: An apparatus and method for manufacturing a rod member for a cigarette filter element is provided. Each rod member defines a longitudinal axis and includes a generally longitudinally-extending filter material. A rod-forming unit is configured to form a continuous supply of a filter material into a continuous cylindrical rod member. An object insertion unit is configured to introduce a plurality of objects into engagement with the rod member along the longitudinal axis. A dispensing device is configured to selectively dispense a liquid substance into the filter material, substantially commensurately with the introduction of the plurality of objects into engagement with the rod member, wherein the liquid substance is configured to affect an attribute associated with the objects. A rod-dividing unit is configured to divide the rod member into a plurality of rod portions such that each rod portion includes at least one object and a portion of the liquid substance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08308623&OS=08308623&RS=08308623
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 08308623
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081028
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to apparatuses and methods for manufacturing filter rods and smoking articles incorporating such filter rods and more particularly to apparatuses and methods for enhancing a characteristic of a filter rod for a smoking article such as a cigarette.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose the placement of a flavor containing pellet in a cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers proposes injecting a flavored fluid into the filter material and or onto one or more strands inserted therein by use of a flavor fluid injection device operably engaged with a tongue or other components within a gathering region.

Cigarettes having adjustable filter elements that allow smokers to select the level of flavor that is available for transfer into mainstream smoke have been proposed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 848 375 to Patron et al. Some proposed cigarettes may be manipulated reportedly for the purpose of providing components of their filter elements with the propensity to modify the nature or character of mainstream smoke. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 297 038 to Homburger U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 557 to Karalus U.S. Pat. No. 3 420 242 to Boukar U.S. Pat. No. 3 508 558 to Seyburn U.S. Pat. No. 3 513 859 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 665 to Kindgard U.S. Pat. No. 3 669 128 to Cohen and U.S. Pat. No. 4 126 141 to Grossman.

Some proposed cigarettes have a hollow object positioned in their filter element and the contents of that object is reportedly released into the filter element upon rupture of the object in the attempt to alter the nature or character of the mainstream smoke passing through the filter element. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 558 to Waterbury U.S. Pat. No. 3 366 121 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 390 686 to Irby Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 428 049 to Leake U.S. Pat. No. 3 547 130 to Harlow et al U.S. Pat. No. 3 575 1809 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 602 231 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 625 228 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 635 226 to Horsewell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 991 773 to Walker U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 to Deal US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al 2007 0095357 to Besso et al. 2007 0012327 to Karles et al. 2007 0068540 to Thomas et al. 2006 0174901 to Karles et al. 2006 0144412 to Mishra et al. 2006 0112964 to Jupe et al. and PCT WO 03 009711 to Kim and WO 2007 060543 to Besso et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 760 983 to Stokes et al. Some proposed cigarettes may also have a capsule positioned in the filter element and the contents of that capsule reportedly released into the filter element upon rupture of the capsule in order to deodorize the filter element after the cigarette is extinguished. See for example US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al.

Commercially marketed Rivage brand cigarettes have included a filter possessing a cylindrical plastic container containing water or a liquid flavor solution. Cigarettes representative of the Rivage brand cigarettes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 865 056 to Tamaoki et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 331 981 to Tamaoki et al. both of which are assigned to Japan Tobacco Inc. The cylindrical casing within the filter reportedly may be deformed upon the application of external force and a thin wall portion of the casing is consequently broken so as to permit release of the liquid within the casing into an adjacent portion of that filter.

A cigarette holder has been available under the brand name Aquafilter. Cigarette holders representative of the Aquafilter brand product are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 797 644 to Shaw U.S. Pat. No. 4 003 387 to Goldstein and U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 153 to Kaye assigned to Aquafilter Corporation. Those patents propose a disposable cigarette holder into which the mouth end of a cigarette is inserted. Smoke from the cigarette that is drawn through the holder reportedly passes through filter material impregnated with water. A disposable filter adapted to be attachable to the mouth end of a cigarette has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. A flavor containing capsule contained within the disposable filter reportedly may be squeezed in order to release the flavor within the capsule.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of providing in some instances selectively a variety of different flavors depending upon the smoker s immediate desire. The flavor of such a cigarette might be selected based on the smoker s desire for a particular flavor at that time or a desire to change flavors during the smoking experience. For example changing flavors during the smoking experience may enable a smoker to end the cigarette with a breath freshening flavor such as menthol or spearmint. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of providing distinctive different pleasurable sensory experiences for a smoker.

Some smokers might also desire a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent upon completion of a smoking experience. Such agents may be used to ensure that the remaining portion of a smoked cigarette yields a pleasant aroma after the smoker has finished smoking that cigarette. Accordingly it is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent as desired by the smoker.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of moistening cooling or otherwise modifying the nature or character of the mainstream smoke generated by that cigarette. Because certain agents that can be used to interact with smoke are volatile and have the propensity to evaporate over time the effects of those agents upon the behavior of those cigarettes may require introduction of those agents near commencement of the smoking experience. Accordingly is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of moistening smoothing or cooling the smoke delivered to a smoker for that smoker.

It would be highly desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance a sensory aspect of his her smoking experience and the extent or magnitude of that sensory experience such as can be accomplished by allowing the smoker to purposefully select a cigarette having certain characteristics or behaviors and in some instances by allowing the smoker to determine the magnitude or extent of such characteristics or behaviors that the cigarette exhibits and or the source thereof. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing components that can be employed so as to allow the smoker to select a cigarette based on an indicated character or nature and in some instances allow the smoker to control whether selectively or not the nature or character of the mainstream smoke produced by that cigarette and the source from which it is obtained. In particular it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of enhancing the sensory attributes and the extent or magnitude of such attributes of the mainstream smoke e.g. by flavoring that smoke . More particularly it would be desirable to provide the means to manufacture such cigarettes incorporating such flavor agents and sources and the like in a rapid highly automated fashion. It also would be desirable to provide improved means to incorporate liquid flavoring agents substances in a manner substantially commensurately with the incorporation of smoke altering solid objects such as flavor pellets flavor capsules flavored or non flavored strands exchange resin beads adsorbent absorbent particles or possibly various combinations thereof into cigarette filters in a rapid highly automated fashion.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and process for providing filter rods for use in the manufacture of smoking articles wherein each rod has one or more objects e.g. rupturable capsules pellets strands or combinations thereof disposed along its length such that when the rod is subdivided into rod portions each rod portion includes at least one and preferably a plurality of such objects. Each rod further includes a liquid substance e.g. flavoring agent selectively applied along its length wherein the liquid substance may be adapted to affect an attribute associated with the one or more objects. The apparatus incorporates equipment for supplying a continuous supply of filter material e.g. a filter tow processing unit adapted to supply filter tow to a continuous rod forming unit and an object insertion unit such as for example a hopper and rotating wheel arrangement as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. and incorporated herein by reference for supplying the objects to the filter material. In a further example the apparatus may include for example a tongue or tongue portion configured to gather the supply of filter material into a continuous rod. Such a tongue may also include for instance a tube extending into the filter material passing through the tongue wherein the tube is configured to allow the objects singularly or otherwise serially engaged to pass therethrough into the filter material as the continuous rod is formed. In another example the objects may be housed within a tubular member and the apparatus may include for instance an object insertion unit for inserting the tubular member having the objects therein into the filter material. In still another example the objects may be serially attached or otherwise serially engaged with each other so as to form a continuous chain of objects wherein the object insertion unit would be configured to place the continuous chain of objects into the filter material. In any instance the apparatus may also include a dispensing device operably engaged with the object insertion unit wherein the dispensing device is configured to selectively dispense a liquid substance into the filter material substantially commensurately with the introduction of the plurality of objects into engagement with the rod member and wherein the liquid substance is configured to affect an attribute associated with the objects.

In still other instances the objects may be attached or otherwise engaged with an elongate member wherein the elongate member may comprise for example a strand. The objects are thus strung together by the strand. In such instances the object insertion unit is particularly configured to place or otherwise insert the strand and objects into the filter material. Further the objects may be separate from the elongate member strand wherein the object insertion unit is configured to place or otherwise insert the strand and objects not engaged with each other into the filter material. That is multiple objects i.e. capsules pellets and or strands or at least one of a capsule pellet or strand in combination with at least one other of the capsule pellet or strand is inserted into the filter material by the object insertion unit. One arrangement for inserting a strand into the filter material is disclosed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0029118 to Nelson et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. In another example the elongate member may also be configured to extend laterally i.e. as a two dimensional sheet . In such an instance the objects may be attached or otherwise engaged with the elongate member. In engaging the elongate member with the filter material the apparatus may include for example a wrapping device configured to wrap the elongate member about the objects i.e. so as to form a tubular member wherein the object insertion unit is configured to place the objects wrapped by the elongate member into the filter material. In yet another example the apparatus may include a garniture device configured to wrap the elongate member having the objects attached thereto about the filter material such that the elongate member forms a wrap encompassing the filter material and the objects. Such examples of object insertion apparatuses are disclosed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 760 983 to Stokes et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

The apparatus further includes a dispensing device for selectively dispensing a liquid substance into the filter material substantially commensurately with the introduction of the one or more objects into the filter material. The liquid substance is adapted to affect an attribute such as for example enhancing a flavoring characteristic associated with the one or more objects disposed in each filter rod. However the liquid substance may in other instances interact with the object and or any substances included therein to have a cooperative effect. For example the object may include a substance that when released therefrom enhances the effect of the liquid substance provides a combination effect with the liquid substance i.e. a mix of flavors or neutralizes or otherwise counteracts the effect of the liquid substance. In one example the dispensing device may be operably engaged with an object insertion unit. In another example the dispensing device may be operably engaged with a rotating wheel arrangement such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. and incorporated herein by reference for supplying the objects into the filter material.

As a result the filter material is formed into a continuous rod having the one or more objects and a portion of the liquid substance positioned within that rod and along the longitudinal axis thereof. The continuous rod then is subdivided at predetermined intervals so as to form a plurality of filter rods or rod portions such that each rod portion includes at least one of the objects therein as well as a portion of the liquid substance affecting an attribute of the at least one object. In instances of the objects comprising for example a capsule and or a pellet and also including a strand the capsules and or pellets may be disposed at predetermined positions within and along the filter rod or filter element while the strand if any extends through the filter rod or filter element. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are particularly configured to provide the objects and place the same within the filter material while substantially commensurately dispensing a liquid substance into the filter material with the objects being sufficiently proximal to each other in a regularly spaced relationship such that a desired at least one object and a portion of the liquid substance affecting an attribute thereof per rod portion is obtained when the continuous rod is subdivided.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Cigarette rods are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Filtered cigarettes incorporating filter elements provided from filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be manufactured using traditional types of cigarette making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0103355 to Holmes and 2005 1094014 to Read Jr. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

Cigarette filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods types of tipping materials and levels of air dilution can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006 0272655 to Thomas et al. and US 2007 0246055 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Filter rods can be manufactured pursuant to embodiments of the present invention using a rod making apparatus and an exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit. Representative rod forming units are available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and as Polaris ITM Filter Maker from International Tobacco Machinery. Filter material such as cellulose acetate filamentary tow typically is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit. For example filter tow can be bloomed using bussel jet methodologies or threaded roll methodologies. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. and as Candor ITM Tow Processor from International Tobacco Machinery. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art can be employed. Other types of filter materials such as gathered paper nonwoven polypropylene web or gathered strands of shredded web can be provided using the types of materials equipment and techniques set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al.

Representative types of filter rods incorporating objects and representative types of cigarettes possessing filter elements incorporating objects such as flavor containing capsules or pellets can possess the types of components format and configuration and can be manufactured using the types of techniques and equipment set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0070409 A1 to Deal 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0029118 to Nelson et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One highly preferred filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al.

Filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit such as a commercially available E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may similarly be used. Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials for construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture.

The continuous length of filter material is pulled through a block by the action of the rod forming unit and the objects and liquid substance are introduced along the length of and into the filter material as the filter material is pulled therethrough. However the objects and liquid substance may also be introduced into the filter material at other points in the process as disclosed further herein and this exemplary embodiment is not intended to be limiting in that regard. The filter material is further directed into a gathering region of the rod forming unit . The gathering region can have a tongue and horn configuration a gathering funnel configuration stuffer or transport jet configuration or other suitable type of gathering mechanism. The tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of the cylindrical composite from block into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending strands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed. In some instances the objects and liquid substance may also be commensurately placed into the filter material in the gathering region as appropriate to minimize invasive operations with respect to that filter material.

The filter material which has been compressed into a cylindrical composite is received further into the rod forming unit . The cylindrical composite is fed into wrapping mechanism which includes endless garniture conveyer belt or other garniture mechanism. The garniture conveyer belt is continuously and longitudinally advanced using advancing mechanism such as a ribbon wheel or cooperating drum so as to transport the cylindrical composite through wrapping mechanism . The wrapping mechanism provides a strip of wrapping material e.g. non porous paper plug wrap to the outer surface of the cylindrical composite in order to produce continuous wrapped rod . In some instances the objects may also be engaged with the filter material in the wrapping or garniture region as appropriate. For example the elongate member as otherwise disclosed herein may be in the form of a wrapping material having the objects attached thereto or otherwise engaged therewith. In some instances the elongate member may also include for example microcapsules see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0142028 to Fagg incorporated herein by reference instead of or in addition to the objects wherein the elongate member wrapping material is wrapped about the filter material such that the objects microcapsules are applied thereto.

Generally the strip or web of wrapping material is provided from rotatable bobbin . The wrapping material is drawn from the bobbin is trained over a series of guide rollers passes under block and enters the wrapping mechanism of the rod forming unit. The endless garniture conveyer belt transports both the strip of wrapping material and the cylindrical composite in a longitudinally extending manner through the wrapping mechanism while draping or enveloping the wrapping material about the cylindrical composite.

The seam formed by an overlapping marginal portion of wrapping material has adhesive e.g. hot melt adhesive applied thereto at applicator region in order that the wrapping material can form a tubular container for the filter material. Alternatively the hot melt adhesive may be applied directly upstream of the wrapping material s entry into the garniture of the wrapping mechanism or block as the case may be. The adhesive can be cooled using chill bar in order to cause rapid setting of the adhesive. It is understood that various other sealing mechanisms and other types of adhesives can be employed in providing the continuous wrapped rod.

The continuous wrapped rod passes from the sealing mechanism and is subdivided e.g. severed at regular intervals at the desired predetermined length using cutting assembly which includes as a rotary cutter a highly sharpened knife or other suitable rod cutting or subdividing mechanism. It is particularly desirable that the cutting assembly does not flatten or otherwise adversely affect the shape of the rod. The rate at which the cutting assembly severs the continuous rod at the desired points is controlled via an adjustable mechanical gear train not shown or other suitable mechanism. The rate at which the objects and liquid substance are introduced into the continuous web of filter material is in a direct relationship to the speed of operation of the rod making machine. The object insertion unit can be geared in a direct drive relationship to the drive assembly of the rod making apparatus. Alternatively the object insertion unit can have a direct drive motor synchronized with the drive assembly of the rod forming unit and feedback controlled by coupling with the object inspection mechanism to adjust the insertion unit drive assembly should the object insertion location shift out of the desired position. In any instance the dispensing device can be synchronized with the object insertion unit such that the liquid substance is dispersed proximate to the object s . In light of the relationship of the rate of object insertion dispensing of the liquid substance and the rod making machine embodiments of the present invention are also directed to increasing the production rate of the rod making machine without adversely affecting the object liquid substance insertion into the filter material.

In one embodiment the object insertion unit may include a rotatable insertion member having the shape of a wheel which may be positioned so as to rotate in a vertical plane. The object insertion unit may also include a hopper assembly and or other transfer mechanism for feeding or otherwise providing transfer of objects such as for example capsules and or pellets to insertion wheel . As the insertion wheel rotates in a clock wise fashion individual objects not shown held within pocket not shown on the peripheral face of the wheel are brought into contact with the filter material within the block where the objects are ejected released from the pockets into the gathered filter material . Details of such an object insertion arrangement are further detailed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. though embodiments of the present invention as disclosed herein implement a relatively closer spacing of the objects along the length of the filter rod or rod portion . That is the insertion wheel may be configured so as to place the objects in closer proximity to each other or immediately adjacent to each other. For example the pockets may be more closely spaced or the insertion wheel configured in a different manner so as to for instance receive and deliver the objects in a substantially consistent and continuous feed.

In still another example the objects may be serially attached or otherwise engaged so as to be placed in the filter material as a continuous chain see e.g. . That is the objects may be directly joined to each other using for example an adhesive or by binding to each other in the presence of heat. The hopper assembly would thus be replaced by other transfer mechanisms for feeding or otherwise providing the continuous chain of objects to insertion wheel . The continuous chain of objects would be placed within the filter material using an appropriately modified insertion wheel or other suitable insertion device. For instance the continuous chain of objects could be stored on a bobbin spool or other appropriate storage and dispensing device in proximity to the insertion wheel or other suitable insertion device for inserting the continuous chain into the filter material. Having incorporated U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. by reference the details and operation of the hopper assembly insertion wheel are not otherwise described in detail herein but instead are referenced to that publication.

In controlling this process a typical control system includes control hardware and software. An exemplary control system can incorporate a Siemens 315 2DP Processor a Siemens FM352 5 Booleen Processor and a 16 input bit 16 output bit module. Such a system can utilize a system display such as a Siemens MP370. A typical rod making unit possesses internal controls whereby for a rod of desired length the speed of the knife of the severing unit is timed relative to the speed of continuous rod formation. A first encoder by way of connection with the drive belt of the rod making unit and with the control unit of the object insertion unit provides reference of the knife position of the cutting assembly relative to the wheel position of the insertion unit. Thus the first encoder provides a mechanism for allowing control of the speed of rotation of the insertion wheel of the object insertion unit relative to the speed at which continuous web of filter tow passes through the rod making unit. An exemplary first encoder is available as Heidenhain Absolute 2048.

In some instances the objects may be attached to or otherwise engaged with the strand or other elongate member wherein such an elongate member may comprise for instance a strip of material having a laterally extending dimension. In other instances the objects may be housed for example within an elongate member comprising a tube . In still other instances the elongate member may comprise for instance a strip of material having a larger laterally extending dimension with the objects attached to or otherwise engaged therewith wherein the strip of material is laterally wrapped about the objects using a wrapping device not shown prior to insertion of the wrapped objects into the filter material. In any such instances the objects may be attached to or otherwise engaged with the elongate member using an adhesive or other suitable material. The elongate member having the objects attached to or otherwise engaged therewith may be formed and stored on e.g. wrapped about a bobbin or other suitable spool member and provided for placement within the filter material as appropriate.

An inspection detection system may be located near the cutting assembly. The detection system such as an infrared detection system relays information regarding the detection of an object within the filter rod to the control system . Typically the objects within the filter rod are of a contrasting shade or color to be detected by visual detection sensors in the detection system . In other instances the inspection detection system may be appropriately modified so as to be capable of detecting inspecting various objects. For example the inspection detection system may be configured to detect inspect a capsule a pellet and strand or any multiples or combinations thereof. Such an inspection detection system is disclosed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. previously incorporated by reference.

The rod making apparatus optionally can be equipped with a system adapted to provide information associated with rod production and operation event analysis. For example a rod making apparatus such as a commercially available KDF 2 type of unit can be adapted so as to be equipped with a central processing unit. A representative central processing unit is available as a Siemens 314 C processor. The central processing unit is equipped with input and output modules. As such the operation of the rod making unit can be monitored and data so generated can be transferred to the central processing unit. In addition data received by the central processing unit can be presented on a video touch screen or retrieved by a high level operating system e.g. via an Ethernet . Remote unit such as Siemens IM 153 equipped with inputs outputs and a counter module available as Siemens FM350 2 installed in sending unit collects data provided to the central processing unit using a bus system e.g. Profibus . Depending upon information gathered data that can be generated may relate to number of rods manufactured during a particular time frame machine operating speed manufacturing efficiency number of stops filters sent to a cigarette making machine and stoppage reasons.

Referring to the continuous web of filter material is fed into guide or block shown as partially cut away . The block receives the wide band of filter material and gradually forms the web into a composite which generally resembles a cylindrical composite. The plow region of the ledger housing separates or spreads the filter material such that the objects are positioned or placed from the peripheral face of the wheel into the desired locations within the web of filter material and along the longitudinal axis thereof. When the tow reaches the endmost portion of the plow the motion of the tow acts to close itself into a cylindrical composite which encloses surrounds or contains the objects along the length of and within the continuous web. A suitable plow preferably extends to a maximum depth of about 6 mm to about 6.5 mm into the web of filter material. The insertion unit can be raised or lowered in order that the objects be inserted at the desired depth within the filter material. In such a manner a series of objects is positioned in the web of filter material along the length of and within the cylindrical composite that exits the block and enters the tongue or other suitable gathering means.

Referring to the guide or block the top portion of which is shown as partially cut away has a relatively wide opening at one end in order that the filter material can be fed therein. The shape of the hollow inner portion of the block is such that the filter material is formed into a composite which more generally resembles a cylinder. In particular the inner portion of the block is a hollow region or cavity in order that the filter material can be passed therethrough. The block has a longitudinally extending slot along the top portion thereof in order to allow the rotating wheel and ledger housing not shown to extend into the web of filter material and to insert the objects therein. In a suitable situation the plow not shown extends into the slot so as to extend about 0.3 mm to about 0.4 mm from the extreme bottom portion of the hollow inner portion of the block. The resulting cylindrical composite is received to further downstream processing regions of the rod forming unit. Similar types of blocks are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the rod making apparatus may optionally include more than one such block and insertion wheel assembly where such a plurality of assemblies may be for example disposed in series. In other instances a single block may be configured with more than one such insertion wheel . For example where each insertion wheel has a diameter of between about 135 mm and about 140 mm a pair of insertion wheels may be mounted with respect to a single block with about 150 mm center to center spacing. In instances of more than one object insertion device i.e. more than one block insertion wheel assembly or more than one insertion wheel per single block the rod making apparatus may be configured to place a mixed plurality of objects i.e. various combinations of objects such as for example capsules pellets or strands into the filter material with each of the object insertion devices handling a different type of object. In continuation of the example the plurality of object insertion devices may be configured to deposit into the filter material for instance a combination of various objects such as a capsule and a pellet see e.g. a combination of a capsule and a strand A see e.g. a combination of a pellet and a strand A see e.g. or a combination of all three objects such as a capsule pellet and strand A see e.g. . In some instances the block insertion wheel assemblies multiple assemblies or the insertion wheels single block multiple insertion wheels may also be modularly configured or otherwise optional such that the number of object insertion devices may be varied as necessary or desirable. In order to accomplish the desired configuration of object insertion the plurality of object insertion devices may be coordinated and or synchronized in various manners such as by timing sensing or any other suitable scheme.

With reference to A and B a dispensing device may also be provided to selectively dispense or otherwise inject a liquid substance into the filter material substantially commensurately with the introduction of the objects into the filter material. In this manner some embodiments of the present invention are directed to increasing the production rate of the rod making machine. The liquid substance may include for example a flavoring agent e.g. menthol or other substance capable of affecting an attribute of the objects . More particularly for instance a liquid substance comprising a flavoring agent may be introduced into the filter material for enhancing a flavoring characteristic associated with the one or more objects disposed in each filter rod. However the liquid substance may in other instances interact with the object and or any substances included therein to have a cooperative effect. For example the object may include a substance that when released therefrom enhances the effect of the liquid substance provides a combination effect with the liquid substance i.e. a mix of flavors or neutralizes or otherwise counteracts the effect of the liquid substance. In one instance the liquid substance may interact with the objects to affect the characteristics of the smoke drawn through the filter material.

The addition of one or more additives to the filter of the smoking article such as flavorants flavoring agents and the like enhances the flavor or other characteristics of the smoke as it is drawn therethrough by the user. In this regard such enhancement may be maximized by selectively distributing the liquid additive substance otherwise referred to herein as liquid substance through the filter tow material such that the liquid additive substance is distributed at a predetermined location relative to the longitudinal axis of the tow. In general it is desirable to uniformly distribute the liquid additive substance along the central or longitudinal axis of the filter tow material. Uneven or eccentric distribution of a liquid flavorant substance may result in an inconsistent and undesirable tobacco smoke taste or flavorant may not necessarily have the desired effect. In other embodiments the dispensing device may be configured to insert other substances materials such as for example a carbonaceous material commensurately with the objects being introduced into the filter material wherein the substances materials may be in a powder or non liquid form.

The dispensing device may be controlled by the control system controlling the object insertion unit or in other instances a discrete control system remote from the system controlling the object insertion unit . In any instance the control system may be configured to direct that the liquid substance and objects be commensurately placed into the filter material.

In some embodiments the object insertion unit may define the dispensing device in an integrally formed manner. In other instances the dispensing device may be operably engaged with or otherwise coupled to i.e. mounted to the object insertion unit e.g. insertion wheel so as to be proximally arranged in the rod making process to promote or facilitate the commensurate insertion thereof into the filter material. The dispensing device may define at least one supply channel for dispensing the liquid substance therethrough into the filter material. The dispensing device may further define an inlet in fluid communication with the supply channel . The inlet may be configured to receive the liquid substance from for example the reservoir .

In one particular embodiment the dispensing device may be coupled with the objection insertion unit such as for example the insertion wheel . In such embodiments the dispensing device may include a body portion which defines the supply channel such that the liquid substance may flow therethrough. The body portion may include an arcuate portion configured to correspondingly mate with the insertion wheel to facilitate engagement therewith. Further the body portion may define the inlet for receiving the liquid substance from the reservoir . The body portion may further define one or more outlets for dispensing the liquid substance into the filter material.

In some instances the liquid substance is delivered to the inlet under pressure such that the liquid substance is forced out of the outlets and into the filter material i.e. an injection process . A regulator and or purge mechanism may be provided such that the liquid substance can be selectively delivered to the filter material in a metered manner commensurately with the objects being positioned into the filter material. In this respect the liquid substance can be metered to dispense a predetermined amount of the liquid substance into the filter material. According to some embodiments during operation of the rod making apparatus the liquid additive substance such as a flavorant from the reservoir is fed into the inlet of the dispensing device . In some instances the injection delivery of the liquid additive substance may be accompanied by the injection of a gaseous fluid such as pressurized air for atomizing the liquid additive for injection into the filter material. In such instances if a gaseous fluid is used to atomize the liquid additive substance a pressurized gas supply e.g. air is fed via a throttle valve and shut off valve through a conduit into a second inlet of the dispensing device .

A separating device may be provided to separate the filter material to facilitate the introduction of the objects and liquid substance therein so as to promote incorporation of the objects and liquid substance into the central portion of the filter material i.e. with respect to the cross section thereof . That is a leading edge of the separating device with respect to the directional path of the filter material interacts with the filter material to provide at least some separation thereof in the longitudinal direction and to a depth approaching the centroid of the cross section of the filter material. In some instances the separating device may be separately provided from the dispensing device and or the objection insertion unit . In other instances the separating device may be integrally formed with one of the dispensing device and the object insertion unit . For example the dispensing device may include the separating device operably engaged with or otherwise integrally formed with the body . In this manner the separating device may be substituted for the plow region of the ledger housing . The separating device of the dispensing device acts to separate or spread the filter material i.e. separate the filter material in the longitudinal direction as the filter material is directed therepast such that the objects are dispensed from the peripheral face of the wheel into the desired locations within the filter material and along the longitudinal axis thereof. Further the separating device of the dispensing device is also configured to separate or spread the filter material as the filter material is moved therepast such that the liquid substance is dispensed from the dispensing device into the desired locations within the web of filter material and along the longitudinal axis thereof in a desired proximity to the objects .

When the tow reaches the endmost portion of the separating device the motion of the tow acts to close itself into a cylindrical composite which encloses surrounds or contains the objects and liquid substance along the length of and within the continuous web. A suitable separating device preferably extends to a maximum depth of about 6 mm to about 6.5 mm into the web of filter material. The object insertion unit dispensing device may also be raised or lowered in order that the objects and liquid substance be inserted at the desired depth within the filter material. In such a manner a series of objects and liquid substance segments are positioned in the web of filter material along the length of and within the cylindrical composite that exits the block . One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the rod making apparatus may optionally include more than one insertion wheel and dispensing device assembly where such a plurality of assemblies may be for example disposed in series.

Various types of objects and the dimensions thereof are set forth below. The objects can vary. Each object may possess a generally spherical shape and most preferably is highly spherical in nature. Some objects can be generally solid in nature. Some objects can be composed of a plastic material and each can be for example a solid spherical bead composed of a mixture of polyethylene and flavor or a spherical bead having the form of exchange resin or gel. Some objects can be composed of an inorganic material and can be for example a spherical alumina bead. The objects also can each have the form of a spherical bead composed of a carbonaceous material. The objects also can each have the form of a hollow sphere. Typical hollow objects are liquid containing objects such as breakable capsules which are highly spherical are uniform in size and weight have surface properties that allow such objects to be processed efficiently and effectively using automated filter making equipment and are highly uniform in composition. Some objects have diameters of about 3 mm to about 4 mm preferably about 3.5 mm and the components of the preferred filter rod making equipment of the present invention are suitably adapted or designed to efficiently and effectively produce filter rods incorporating those types of objects. Preferred hollow objects have sufficient physical integrity to not rupture during handling and insertion thereof into the filter material.

Other types of objects beads capsules and capsule components that can be employed for the production of filter rods using the foregoing filter rod manufacturing techniques and equipment are of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al. and 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference. Tobacco products can incorporate those types of components set forth in US Patent Publication Nos. 2006 0272663 to Dube et al. 2006 01330961 to Luan et al. 2006 0144412 to Mishra et al. 2007 0012327 to Karles et al. and 2007 0068540 to Thomas et al. PCT WO 2006 136197 PCT WO 2006 136199 PCT WO 2007 010407 PCT WO 2007 060543 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 to Deal and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 760 983 to Stokes et al. as well as within filtered cigarettes that have been marketed under the tradenames Camel Lights with Menthol Boost and Camel Crush by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. Exemplary pelletized carrier materials and flavor packages are of the type employed in cigarettes that have been marketed commercially in the USA. For example flavor carrying pellets have been incorporated into cigarette filters employed on Camel brand cigarettes under the tradenames Mandalay Lime Mandarin Mint Breach Breezer Back Ally Blend Snakeyes Scotch Izmir Stinger Kauai Kolada Midnight Madness Aegean Spice Screwdriver Slots Twist Twista Lime Dark Mint and Blackjack Gin Kool brand cigarettes under the tradenames Flow and Groove and Salem brand cigarettes under the tradename Deep Freeze all of which have been marketed by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

Referring to filter rod generally can be further subdivided into cylindrical shaped filter elements or rod portions using techniques as are known by the skilled artisan familiar with conventional cigarette manufacturing and as described above. The filter rod includes filter material encased in circumscribing wrapping material such as conventional air permeable or air impermeable paper plug wrap or other suitable wrapping material. As an example at least one object and in some instances a plurality of objects and shown spaced apart groups for clarity but essentially adjacent to each other may be disposed along the longitudinal axis of and within the rod and may be disposed in a spaced apart relationship from one another or immediately adjacent to each other so as to be in some instances serially engaged. In other instances not shown the objects may be disposed so as to have a repeating pattern of groups of objects each group comprising one or more objects separated by a space wherein the space would correspond to a division between filter rod portions. One skilled in the art will note that the entire filter rod may include sufficient one or more objects therein such that each filter rod portion includes the same number of one or more objects when the filter rod is subdivided. For example a four up filter rod may include objects in multiples of four such that upon subdivision each filter rod portion may include 1 2 3 or 4 objects. Further a liquid substance may be dispensed into the rod and proximate to the at least one object such that the liquid substance can affect an attribute of the at least one object .

Referring to there is shown a smoking article such as a cigarette possessing certain representative components of a smoking article. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a tobacco rod. The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. The cigarette is shown as having one optional band e.g. a printed coating including a film forming agent such as starch ethylcellulose or sodium alginate applied to the wrapping material and that band circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band can be printed on the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material as shown or less preferably on the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette can possess a wrapping material having one optional band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having further optional spaced bands numbering two three or more.

The wrapping material of the tobacco rod can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Tobacco rods can have one layer of wrapping material or tobacco rods can have more than one layer of circumscribing wrapping material such as is the case for the so called double wrap tobacco rods. Exemplary types of wrapping materials wrapping material components and treated wrapping materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. and 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 057986 to Hancock et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 047572 to Ashcraft et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the other end is positioned a filter element . The filter element positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. cellulose acetate tow impregnated with triacetin plasticizer that is over wrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . That is the filter element is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of plug wrap and each end is open to expose the filter material .

Within the filter element is positioned at least one object and in other instances a plurality of objects including for example capsules pellets strands including various combinations of different objects see e.g. . The number of objects within each filter element most preferably is a pre determined number and that number can be 1 2 3 or more i.e. at least one . In some embodiments each filter element contains a plurality of objects disposed within the filter material of the filter element in some instances particularly towards the central region of the filter element. The nature of the filter material may be such that the objects are secured or lodged in place within the filter element . In some instances some of the at least one object or plurality of objects may be hollow such as a breakable capsule that may carry a payload incorporating a compound that is intended to introduce some change to the nature or character of mainstream smoke drawn through that filter element e.g. a flavoring agent . That is the shell of some hollow objects may be ruptured at the discretion of the smoker to release the object payload. Alternatively some objects may be a solid porous material with a high surface area capable of altering the smoke and or air drawn through the filter element. Some objects may be a solid material such as a polyethylene bead acting as a substrate or matrix support for a flavoring agent. Some highly preferred objects are capable of releasing the agent at the command of the user. For example a preferred breakable hollow object containing a liquid payload is resistant to the release of the payload until the time that the smoker applies a purposeful application of physical force sufficient to rupture the hollow object. Typically a filter material such as cellulose acetate tow or an inserted strand is generally absorbent of liquid materials of the type that comprise the payload and hence the released payload components are capable of undergoing wicking or otherwise experiencing movement or transfer throughout the filter element. Since at least one object and preferably a plurality of objects is included in each filter element the filter element may include combinations of various types of objects as appropriate or desired.

Further within the filter element is a liquid substance such as for example a flavoring agent e.g. menthol configured to affect i.e. enhance mix neutralize an attribute of the at least one object disposed within the filter element for altering a sensory characteristic of the smoking article over the smoking article in the absence of the liquid substance. In this manner the liquid substance is intended to introduce some change to or alteration of the nature or character of mainstream smoke drawn through that filter element by interacting with and affecting an attribute of the at least one object .

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod using tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping paper that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another.

The tipping material connecting the filter element to the tobacco rod can have indicia not shown printed thereon. For example a band on the filter end of a cigarette not shown can visually indicate to a smoker the general locations or positions of the objects within the filter element . These indicia may help the smoker to locate some objects so that they can for example be more easily ruptured by squeezing the filter element directly outside the position of any such rupturable object. The indicia on the tipping material may also indicate the nature of the payload carried by each object. For example the indicia may indicate that the particular payload is a spearmint flavoring by having a particular color shape or design. If desired the inner surface i.e. the surface facing the plug wrap of the tipping material can be coated with a material that can act to retard the propensity of rupturable object contents from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material and hence causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture .

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution mechanism such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap. The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. As these techniques are carried out after insertion of any objects into the filter element care is taken to avoid damaging the objects during the formation of the perforations . One way to avoid damage from air dilution techniques such as those employing laser perforation technologies involves locating the perforations at a position adjacent to the positions of the objects . In such a manner radiation heat or physical forces acting upon the filter element during perforation processes do not have such a great propensity to damage the objects. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping paper . The perforated region can be positioned upstream of any object as shown or the perforated region can be positioned downstream of any object i.e. towards the extreme mouth end of the filter element .

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap Plug Wrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 65 M9 95 M9 150 M4 260 M4 and 260 M4T. Preferred plug wrap materials are non porous in nature. Non porous plug wraps exhibit porosities of less than about 10 CORESTA units and preferably less than about 5 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available as Ref. No. 646 Grade from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic Trierendberg Holding . Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

The use of non porous plug wrap materials is desirable in order to avoid the contents of rupturable objects within filter elements from causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material . For example highly non porous plug wrap materials can act to retard or block the propensity of liquid contents of the rupturable objects from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material. The plug wrap is typically applied about the rod in a garniture region downstream of the gathering region. As such in some embodiments the objects may be attached to or otherwise engaged with the plug wrap i.e. the plug wrap comprising the elongate member . As such when the plug wrap is applied to the rod in the garniture region the objects may be introduced into the filter material in an alternate manner i.e. about the periphery of the filter material or in the form of microcapsules engaged with the plug wrap .

The dimensions of a representative cigarette can vary. Preferred cigarettes are rod shaped and can have diameters of about 7.5 mm e.g. circumferences of about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm and can have total lengths of about 80 mm to about 100 mm. The length of the filter element can vary. Typical filter elements can have lengths of about 20 mm to about 40 mm. In one preferred embodiment the length of the filter element is about 27 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 56 mm to about 57 mm. In another embodiment the length of the filter element is about 31 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 67 mm to about 68 mm. The tipping paper can circumscribe the entire filter element and about 4 mm of the length of the tobacco rod in the region adjacent to the filter element.

Preferred cigarettes made according to the method of the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw whether or not any hollow objects within their filter elements are broken. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 mm and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Preferred cigarettes exhibit pressure drop values of between about 70 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 80 mm to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Filter Test Station CTS Series available form Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd.

In use the smoker lights the lighting end of the cigarette and draws smoke into his her mouth through the filter element at the opposite end of the cigarette. The smoker can smoke all or a portion of the cigarette with the objects intact. During the portion of the smoking experience that any objects remain intact smoke generated in the tobacco rod is drawn to the smoker through the filter material of the filter element. In some instances the overall character or nature of the drawn smoke may be virtually unaffected to any significant degree as a result of the presence of the intact object s within the filter element unless particular objects or substances are configured to be activated by or otherwise affect the drawn smoke such as by the liquid substance . If desired the smoker may rupture any or all of the rupturable objects at any time before during or even after the smoking experience. Breakage of any rupturable object acts to release the contents that are contained and sealed therewithin. Release of the contents of any rupturable object into the filter element thus enables the smoker to achieve the intended benefit of action of certain of those contents in addition to the effect initially provided by the liquid substance whether that benefit results from flavoring or scenting the smoke cooling or moistening the smoke freshening the scent of the cigarette butt or achieving some other goal associated with modifying the overall composition of the smoke or altering the performance characteristics of the cigarette. That is in highly preferred embodiments the contents of any rupturable object are not released into the filter element until the particular object is purposefully physically broken but when a rupturable object is ruptured a portion of component contained within the rupturable object e.g. portions of a flavoring agent that is consequently released into the filter element is incorporated into each subsequent puff of mainstream smoke in addition to the effect provided by the liquid substance that is received through that filter element. In this manner any rupturable object can be ruptured by the smoker at their discretion. Multiple flavors or scents in or otherwise associated with the individual objects allows for different taste in each puff of the cigarette or an increased amplitude of sensory response in each puff may be experienced by the smoker if the flavor is the same in all objects. In some instances relatively small objects may be incorporated in each filter element due to the different manners in and the different extent to which the sensory responses may be affected when smoking the cigarette.

During use of the cigarette application of physical pressure to any of the rupturable objects for example by a squeezing action provided by the fingers of the smoker to the filter element causes relevant region of the filter element to deform and hence causes a particular rupturable object or objects to rupture and release the respective payload to the filter material of the filter element. The rupture of any rupturable object can be discerned by an audible pop or snap the feel of a crushing or shattering of the rupturable object or the sense of a rapid decrease in the resistance to the pressure applied by the smoker. Rupture of a rupturable object causes contents of its payload to disperse throughout portions of the filter material and potentially to some extent into the tobacco rod . Most preferably the filter element into which the objects are placed and maintained is such that the filter element effectively maintains its overall shape during the manufacture storage and use of the cigarette. Most preferably the filter element is sufficiently flexible such that the overall cylindrical shape of the filter element returns to essentially its original shape after the application of pressure to the filter element is ceased. That is the filter element possesses sufficient flexibility to allow squeezing pressure applied by the fingers of the smoker to break a rupturable object and sufficient resilience to allow the deformed filter element to return to its original shape.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

