---

title: Infrared reflection glass plate and laminated glass for vehicle window
abstract: An infrared reflection glass plate which is a glass plate with an infrared reflection film, wherein the infrared reflection film has a stacked coating film (X) having a coating film () made of a high refractive index inorganic material having a refractive index of at least 1.90 and a coating film () made of a low refractive index inorganic material having a refractive index of at most 1.56 alternately stacked in this order from the glass plate side; the total number of the coating film () and the coating film () is at least 3; and the geometrical thickness of the coating film () is from 70 to 150 nm and the geometrical thickness of the coating film () is from 100 to 200 nm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07629040&OS=07629040&RS=07629040
owner: Asahi Glass Company, Limited
number: 07629040
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080213
---
The present invention relates to an infrared reflection glass plate and a laminated glass for a vehicle window.

Some window glass for vehicles particularly for automobiles has an infrared reflection film to prevent an increase in the car interior temperature. Heretofore to obtain a high infrared reflection performance an electrically conductive thin film represented by a silver type metal thin film has been used for the infrared reflection film. However if the electrically conductive thin film is laminated on a glass plate a radio wave transmission performance remarkably decreases. Further in such a case the decrease in the radio wave transmission performance is a decrease over a wide range of from the near infrared region to the radio wave region. The decrease in the radio wave transmission performance leads to malfunction of an infrared sensor such as an optical beacon or a rain sensor or decrease in receiving performance of a television a radio or the like. Therefore a window glass having a high infrared reflection performance has hardly been mounted on a vehicle having such a function.

Therefore as a window glass shielding infrared rays while securing the radio wave transmission performance a laminated glass employing an interlayer made of a polyvinyl butyral or the like having infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein hereinafter referred to as a fine particles dispersed interlayer e.g. Patent Document 1 hereinafter a laminated glass of this type will be referred to as a fine particles containing laminated glass has been employed. With respect to the fine particles containing laminated glass for example by use of tin doped indium oxide hereinafter referred to as ITO fine particles as the infrared shielding fine particles an infrared shielding performance can be imparted to the interlayer by the ITO fine particles and in addition since the ITO fine particles are dispersed the sheet resistance of the interlayer can be increased. Accordingly the fine particles containing laminated glass is useful as a window glass shielding infrared rays while securing the radio wave transmission performance.

However the fine particles containing laminated glass is considered to have the following disadvantages as a window glass which is required to have a higher infrared shielding performance. One is a not so high shielding properties against light in the infrared region e.g. at a wavelength in the vicinity of 1 000 nm e.g. prior art in Patent Document 2 . The other is the fine particles dispersed interlayer absorbing infrared rays thus leading to reradiation of the absorbed solar energy to the car interior e.g. prior art in Patent Document 3 .

Patent Document 2 discloses that on one of glass plates constituting the fine particles containing laminated glass an infrared reflection film comprising a low refractive index layer and a high refractive index layer periodically laminated is provided whereby a high heat insulating performance can be realized by such a structure.

As the infrared reflection film a single layer film of a metal an oxide or a nitride or a laminated film thereof is used and the thickness of each layer is at most 10 nm in the case of a metal film or at most 15 nm in the case of a nitride. Further in Examples oxides including ZnO CrO NiCrO TiO SSTO an oxide of stainless steel SnO and SiO are used and these films have a thickness of from several nm to several tens nm 38 nm at thickest .

However the fine particles containing laminated glass disclosed in Patent Document 2 does not have so high heat insulating performance as it is said. That is even by such a fine particles containing laminated glass it is impossible to achieve a sufficiently high solar reflectance Rwhile suppressing the solar transmittance Tto be sufficiently low. Namely when such a fine particles containing laminated glass is used for a vehicle window since it has a low reflectance the amount of absorption of the solar energy in the laminated glass must be increased so as to suppress the transmittance. As a result the increase in the car interior temperature can not sufficiently be suppressed due to the reradiation of the solar energy absorbed in the laminated glass to the car interior side.

The low solar reflectance is considered to be the following reasons. Namely a film to reflect light in a specific wavelength region is required to have an optical thickness which is an integral multiple of 4 is the wavelength of light to be reflected . With reference to light at 800 nm at the short wavelength side in the infrared region as an example the optical thickness of the infrared reflection film each layer in the case of a stacked film is at least 200 nm.

The optical thickness of each layer is represented by the product of its geometrical thickness and the refractive index of a material constituting the layer . Accordingly even when a material having a high refractive index such as titanium oxide the refractive index is supposed to be 2.4 is used the geometrical thickness of the film is at least about 80 nm. Namely it is considered that no optical thickness required for infrared reflection can be obtained from the geometrical thickness of the film and the refractive index of the material disclosed in Patent Document 2. Accordingly the infrared reflection film disclosed in Patent Document 2 is estimated to have insufficient heat insulating performance.

Further in Patent Document 3 a fine particles dispersed interlayer is disposed between a car exterior side glass plate and a car interior side glass plate and in addition an infrared reflection film comprising an optical interference multilayer film having multilayers of two polymer thin films differing in the refractive index stacked is disposed between the car exterior side glass plate and the fine particles dispersed interlayer. It is disclosed that an energy radiated to the car interior side is suppressed by such a structure as an example of the infrared reflection film U.S. Pat. No. 6 049 419 is cited in Patent Document 3 .

However the infrared reflection film disposed between the car exterior side glass plate and the fine particles dispersed interlayer is poor in durability at its edge portion. Accordingly to improve durability a step cut back of cutting the film from the edge portion toward the center portion by about several cm has been required. The infrared reflection film is generally a hard film. A glass plate is bent in many cases since windows for vehicles particularly for automobiles are bent in many cases. Accordingly when a laminated glass is produced using such a film the film may not comply with the shape of the glass plate thus impairing the outer appearance such as wrinkles in the film. Further a step of providing a color layer ceramic color layer at the peripheral portion of the glass plate has been required so as to hide the wrinkles. Thus a laminated glass including an infrared reflection film has problems in outer appearance and has problems such as complicated production steps.

Further the present inventors have prepared a sample of a laminated glass using a film corresponding to the infrared reflection film used in Patent Document 3 and as a result the film was whitish and had significant haze. Further a projected image reflected on the sample is remarkably distorted and problems in sight are expected to use the sample as a windshield of an automobile.

Further the infrared reflection film used in Patent Document 3 is a film having a coloring matter such as phthalocyanine incorporated in some cases. With an infrared film made of a resin ringing may occur in a transmission spectrum or a phenomenon such that the reflected colors differ depending upon the angle of incidence of solar light dependence on the angle may occur. A coloring matter is incorporated in the film so as to suppress such phenomenons. However since a coloring matter such as phthalocyanine has absorption in the ultraviolet region it will deteriorate by exposure to the solar light whereby ringing in the reflection spectrum and the dependence of the reflected colors on the angle may become problematic.

Under these circumstances in the present invention a laminated glass is obtained by using an infrared reflection glass plate having a specific film structure. Namely the present invention provides the following.

By use of the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention to prepare a laminated glass for a vehicle window a laminated glass can be obtained which can reflect the solar energy as far as possible without excessively absorbing it in the laminated glass and thereby can suppress transmission of the solar energy entering the car interior thereby to suppress the increase in the car interior temperature. Namely the solar energy can be reflected while securing the radio wave transmission properties whereby the solar energy absorbed in the laminated glass can be reduced and reradiation of the absorbed solar energy can be suppressed thus preventing the increase in the car interior temperature. Further the laminated glass of the present invention is excellent in outer appearance and its production steps are simplified. Further it can provide favorable visibility since the haze is prevented and the reflected image is not distorted.

In the following description of the present invention the infrared rays are electromagnetic waves having a wavelength longer than that of visible light and at most 2 000 nm unless otherwise specified. Particularly the infrared reflection film in the present invention is to reflect infrared rays mainly at wavelengths of from 800 to 1 600 nm. The infrared rays in this wavelength region are sometimes called near infrared rays.

The glass plate as a substrate of the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention may be a flat glass plate or may be a processed glass plate. In the present invention the processed glass plate means a formed glass plate obtained by forming a flat glass plate or a tempered glass plate obtained by heat tempering and it may be a glass plate obtained by heat tempering simultaneously with forming. The processed glass plate is obtained usually by thermal processing of a flat glass plate. The thermal processing may for example be bending a flat glass plate with heating or quenching a high temperature glass plate which is bent for tempering. The infrared reflection film is usually present on one side of such a glass plate. A bent glass plate having an infrared reflection film is obtained by a method of forming an infrared reflection film on one side of a bent glass plate a method of bending a flat glass plate having an infrared reflection film or the like. In the present invention preferred is one obtained by the latter method and one of the objects of the present invention is to provide a flat glass plate provided with an infrared reflection film adaptable for this method.

In the present invention heat treatment means heating in the above thermal processing but is not limited thereto and means heating the glass plate at 400 C. or above preferably at 500 C. or above for a certain purpose. The upper limit of the heat treatment temperature is a temperature at which glass of the glass plate melts. Further an infrared reflection glass plate to be subjected to thermal processing before subjected to thermal processing will hereinafter sometimes be referred to as a precursor. In the present invention a single plate means one glass plate and sometimes means one glass plate having an infrared reflection film.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention is useful as a window material for a vehicle such as an automobile. The window material for a vehicle may be a laminated glass such as a windshield or may be a single plate such as door glass. Such a window material is usually a glass plate to which thermal processing bending tempering etc. is applied. That is it is a glass plate produced by bending a glass plate depending upon the shape of the laminated glass or by tempering a laminated glass or a single plate glass to improve strength. An infrared reflection glass plate which is not bent which may be tempered is suitable as a window material for a building.

For the glass plate in the present invention usually soda lime silica glass can be used. In such a case it may be any of transparent and colorless glass colored transparent glass and deep color transparent glass. The colored transparent glass is preferably green transparent glass and the green transparent glass preferably has ultraviolet absorption performance and infrared absorption performance whereby the solar transmittance of the laminated glass can be reduced.

The green transparent glass may for example be soda lime silica glass containing iron. That is it is soda lime silica glass comprising soda lime silica type mother glass and for example from 0.3 to 1 of total iron as calculated as FeOrepresented by mass percentage incorporated. Further as the absorption of light at a wavelength in the near infrared region absorption by bivalent iron among total iron is dominant. Accordingly the mass of FeO bivalent iron as calculated as FeOis more preferably from 20 to 40 of the mass of total iron as calculated as FeO. To impart ultraviolet absorption performance addition of cerium to the soda lime silica type mother glass may for example be mentioned. Specifically preferred is use of soda lime silica glass substantially having the following composition represented by mass percentage.

SiO 65 to 75 AlO 0.1 to 5 NaO KO 10 to 18 CaO 5 to 15 MgO 1 to 6 total iron as calculated as FeO 0.3 to 1 total cerium as calculated as CeOand or TiO 0.5 to 2 .

The deep color transparent glass is not particularly limited and it may for example be soda lime silica glass containing iron at a high concentration.

The thicknesses of the glass plate are preferably from 1.5 to 3.0 mm. Further the glass plate may be either flat or bent. However the glass plate is preferably bent since vehicle particularly automobile windows are bent in many cases.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention is an infrared reflection glass plate having a stacked coating film X having a coating film made of a high refractive index inorganic material having a refractive index of at least 1.90 and a coating film made of a low refractive index inorganic material having a refractive index of at most 1.56 alternately stacked in this order from the glass side the total number of the coating film and the coating film being at least 3 the geometrical thickness of the coating film being from 70 to 150 nm and the geometrical thickness of the coating film being from 100 to 200 nm.

In the present invention a high refractive index inorganic material is an inorganic material having a refractive index higher than the refractive index of the glass plate. The refractive index is at least 1.90 preferably from 1.90 to 2.60 particularly preferably from 2.00 to 2.55 the refractive index is a value at a wavelength of 550 nm the same applies hereinafter . In a case where the coating film is a multilayer coating film as described hereinafter the refractive index of a material of the main layer the layer having the greatest geometrical thickness in the multilayer coating film is preferably from 2.35 to 2.55. Further the low refractive index inorganic material in the present invention is an inorganic material having a refractive index lower than that of the high refractive index inorganic material. The refractive index is at most 1.56 preferably from 1.40 to 1.56 particularly preferably from 1.45 to 1.50.

The difference in the refractive index between the coating film as the high refractive index coating film and the coating film as the low refractive index coating film is preferably at least 0.5 particularly preferably at least 0.8. As described hereinafter when at least one of these coating films is a multilayer coating film the refractive index difference between a material of a part of layers in the multilayer coating film and a material of other layer in a case where other layer is a multilayer coating film a material of a part of layers is not limited thereto. However even in such a case the refractive index difference between the material of the main layer in the multilayer coating film and a material of other layer in a case where other layer is a multilayer coating film the material of the main layer is preferably at least 0.5. The refractive index difference between the coating films and is usually preferably large but the upper limit of the refractive index difference is usually about 1.5 particularly about 1.2 due to restrictions from materials.

In order that infrared rays are reflected by interference action of the stacked coating film X having the coating film and the coating film alternately stacked each of the optical thicknesses of the coating films and is required to be an integral multiple of 4 where is the wavelength of the infrared ray. Accordingly in order that infrared rays at from 800 to 1 600 nm are reflected the optical thickness of the coating film is required to be from 200 to 400 nm. Accordingly considering the refractive index of the material of each coating film the geometrical thickness of the coating film having a refractive index of from 1.90 to 2.60 is from 77 to 211 nm and the geometrical thickness of the coating film having a refractive index of from 1.40 to 1.56 is from 128 to 286 nm.

Each of the optical thicknesses of the coating films and in the present invention is preferably from 180 to 400 nm particularly preferably from 190 to 350 nm considering that there may be reflection on the long wavelength side in the visible region to a certain extent. Accordingly in the present invention the geometrical thickness of the coating film is from 69 to 211 nm and the geometrical thickness of the coating film is from 115 to 286 nm. However if the geometrical thickness is great not only formation of a homogeneous coating film is difficult film deposition properties are low and the productivity is low but also defects such as cracks may occur. Particularly the material of the coating film particularly titanium oxide has significant heat shrink properties whereby cracks are likely to occur at the time of heat treatment. Accordingly the geometrical thicknesses of the coating films and in the present invention are required to be a certain thickness or below. Accordingly the geometrical thickness of the coating film in the present invention is from 70 to 150 nm and the geometrical thickness of the coating film in the present invention is from 100 to 200 nm. Considering the above theoretical values the geometrical thickness of the coating film is more preferably from 80 to 150 nm and the geometrical thickness of the coating film is more preferably from 130 to 200 nm.

The high refractive index inorganic material is preferably titanium oxide zinc oxide tantalum oxide zirconium oxide niobium oxide tin oxide titanium nitride silicon nitride zirconium nitride aluminum nitride titanium oxynitride zirconium oxynitride tin oxynitride or the like. The low refractive index inorganic material is suitably silicon oxide magnesium fluoride a composite oxide of silicon oxide with another material e.g. Al F C B or P or the like. Among them preferred is silicon oxide or a composite oxide of silicon oxide with Al particularly preferred is silicon oxide. Further considering the radio wave transmission properties the electrical conductivity of such materials is preferably low. Accordingly the high refractive index inorganic material is preferably titanium oxide zirconium oxide or titanium oxynitride and the low refractive index inorganic material is preferably silicon oxide.

In the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention since the total number of the coating film and the coating film is at least 3 at least two coating films are present. They may be coating films made of the same material or may be coating films made of different materials. The same applies to the coating film . When two or more coating films are present in the infrared reflection film they may be coating films made of the same material or may be coating films made of different materials.

Further regarding one coating film the coating film may be a single layer film made of a single high refractive index inorganic material or may be a high refractive index multilayer film having a multilayer structure consisting of at least two layers made of different high refractive index inorganic materials. It is preferred that at least one coating film is a high refractive index multilayer film . Further it is particularly preferred that the high refractive index multilayer film has a two layer structure.

In a case where the coating film is a single layer film it is preferably a single layer film of titanium oxide or titanium oxynitride. Titanium oxide has such an advantage that the geometrical thickness of the film can be reduced since it is transparent and has a particularly high refractive index among high refractive index inorganic materials. Titanium oxynitride is also advantageous since it has a high refractive index. Further as described hereinafter by use of titanium oxynitride such an advantage can be obtained that cracks on the film can be suppressed at the time of heat treatment in e.g. bending or tempering. Here the single layer film of a titanium oxynitride layer is a film consisting of only a titanium oxynitride TiON layer. Hereinafter titanium oxide and titanium oxynitride will generically be referred to as a titanium compound .

The high refractive index multilayer film is preferably such that at least one layer constituting the high refractive index multilayer film is a layer of a titanium compound. A layer other than the layer of a titanium compound may for example be a layer of zirconium oxide a layer of tin oxide a layer of tantalum oxide a layer of zinc oxide a layer of niobium oxide a layer of titanium nitride a layer of silicon nitride a layer of zirconium nitride a layer of aluminum nitride a layer of zirconium oxynitride or a layer of tin oxynitride and it is preferably a layer of zirconium oxide. In a case where the coating film is the high refractive index multilayer film the optical thickness of the entire multilayer film the sum of optical thicknesses of the respective layers should be an integral multiple of 4 and the geometrical thickness should be from 70 to 150 nm as the total thickness of the multilayer film.

The high refractive index multilayer film is preferably a high refractive index multilayer film comprising a layer of zirconium oxide and a layer of a titanium compound. The order of stacking of the layer of zirconium oxide and the layer of a titanium compound is not particularly limited and a case where the layer of zirconium oxide and the layer of a titanium compound are stacked in this order from the glass plate side and a case where the layer of a titanium compound and the layer of zirconium oxide are stacked in this order from the glass plate side may be mentioned and the former is preferred. Further a three layer structure of two layers of zirconium oxide and a layer of a titanium compound present therebetween may also be employed.

It is preferred to use as the coating film a single layer film of titanium oxynitride or the high refractive index multilayer film comprising the layer of zirconium oxide and the layer of a titanium compound as mentioned above from the following reasons.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention can be produced by applying heat treatment in e.g. bending or tempering to a precursor described hereinafter of the infrared reflection glass. Cracks may occur on the infrared reflection film by heat treatment at the time of bending or tempering depending upon the material of the coating film. Particularly when the geometrical thickness of the entire infrared reflection film is great e.g. 300 nm or more cracks are likely to occur.

Cracks are considered to be caused mainly by volume shrinkage of the film by crystallization at the time of heat treatment. Accordingly cracks can be suppressed by a means of using a coating film made of a material having a low crystallization rate using a multilayer film having different materials stacked to suppress the volume shrinkage or the like. Titanium oxynitride is less likely to undergo crystallization at the time of heat treatment as compared with titanium oxide. Accordingly cracks can be suppressed by using titanium oxynitride as the constituting material of the coating film .

Further to suppress cracks it is also effective to make the coating film be the multilayer film and it is particularly preferred to make it be the multilayer film comprising a layer of zirconium oxide and a layer of a titanium compound.

Most of the layer of zirconium oxide is formed into a monoclinic system at the time of film deposition. Further the layer of zirconium oxide has a size of the crystal lattice about the same level as that of the layer of titanium oxide whereby lattice matching is likely to occur. It is considered that shrinkage is less likely to occur at the time of heat treatment i.e. crystallization is less likely to occur since rearrangement of the lattice in the interior of the layer of titanium oxide at the time of heat treatment which leads to crystallization is suppressed by such an adjacent layer of zirconium oxide. Accordingly by stacking a layer of zirconium oxide and a layer of titanium oxide cracks can be suppressed. Further by a multilayer film of a layer of zirconium oxide and a layer of titanium oxynitride both effects can be obtained such being more favorable.

In a case where the high refractive index multilayer film is a high refractive index multilayer film comprising a layer of zirconium oxide and a layer of a titanium compound in order to obtain the effect of suppressing cracks by the layer of zirconium oxide the geometrical thickness of the layer of zirconium oxide is preferably from 5 to 35 nm more preferably from 10 to 25 nm. The optical thickness of the layer of zirconium oxide refractive index 2.06 having a geometrical thickness of from 5 to 35 nm is from 10 to 70 nm which corresponds to a geometrical thickness of the layer of a titanium compound refractive index is considered to be from 2.4 to 2.48 of from 4 to 29 nm. Accordingly the layer of a titanium compound in the high refractive index multilayer film having a layer of zirconium oxide of from 5 to 35 nm is preferably a layer thinner by from 4 to 29 nm than the geometrical thickness of a titanium compound single layer film having no layer of zirconium oxide.

With respect to the coating film also regarding one coating film the coating film may be a single layer film made of a single low refractive index inorganic material or may be a low refractive index multilayer film having a multilayer structure of at least two layers made of different low refractive index inorganic materials. In the case of the coating film it is preferably a single layer film made of a single low refractive index inorganic material particularly preferably a single layer film made of silicon oxide.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention comprises the glass plate and the stacked coating film X having the coating film made of the above high refractive index inorganic material and the coating film made of the above low refractive index inorganic material alternately stacked in this order from the glass plate side and the total number of the coating film and the coating film is at least 3. The total number is not particularly limited so long as it is at least 3 but if it is too large the visible light transmittance may decrease when formed into a laminated glass and accordingly the upper limit is preferably 9 particularly preferably 7.

The total number of the coating film and the coating film may be an odd number or an even number and can be determined depending upon the situation in which the infrared reflection glass plate is used. For example when the infrared reflection glass plate is disposed to be the car exterior side glass so that the surface of the stacked coating film X is in contact with the interlayer to prepare a laminated glass the coating film constituting the stacked coating film X farthest from the glass plate is preferably the coating film made of a high refractive index inorganic material. In such a case the total number is preferably an odd number specifically preferably 3 5 or 7 preferably 3 or 5 particularly preferably 3.

On the other hand in a case where the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention is used by itself as a single plate the coating film farthest from the glass plate is preferably the coating film made of a low refractive index inorganic material. Accordingly the total number is preferably an even number specifically preferably 4 or 6 particularly preferably 4.

The coating films and present in the infrared reflection film preferably have substantially the same optical thickness. If there is a dispersion of the optical thickness the reflected colors may be uneven or the visible light transmittance tends to be low. The variation of the optical thickness of two or more coating films in the infrared reflection film is preferably within a range of 50 nm and the variation of the geometrical thickness is preferably within a range of 20 nm considering the refractive index of the high refractive index inorganic material constituting the coating film . Further considering the refractive index of the high refractive index inorganic material and the refractive index of the low refractive index inorganic material the ratio of the geometrical thickness of the coating film to the geometrical thickness of the coating film is preferably to by the coating film the coating film .

The stacked coating film X preferably has a three layer structure consisting of two coating films and a coating film present between the two coating films . In a case where the coating film is a single layer film of titanium oxide oxynitride it has a three layer structure of from the glass plate side. At least one coating film is more preferably the high refractive index multilayer film and in such a case it has a three layer structure of or from the glass plate side. Among them the three layer structure of is preferred. The high refractive index multilayer film is preferably the above high refractive index multilayer film . Accordingly the most preferred stacked coating film X in the present invention is a stacked coating film having a three layer structure consisting of two high refractive index multilayer films and a coating film present between the two high refractive index multilayer films .

Further the geometrical thickness total thickness of the entire stacked coating film X is preferably from 240 to 650 nm particularly preferably from 300 to 500 nm from the viewpoint of favorable durability.

The following structures may for example be mentioned as the structure of the stacked coating film X . In the following structures G represents a glass plate.

More specifically stacked coating films X having the following structures may for example be mentioned.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention comprises a glass plate and the stacked coating film X as mentioned above and it may have a thin film Y having a single layer structure or a multilayer structure made of an inorganic material on either one of the glass plate side and the non glass plate side or on both sides of the stacked coating film X . In the thin film Y the geometrical thickness of each layer constituting the thin film Y is less than 70 nm preferably less than 50 nm. Whether the thin film less than 70 nm in contact with the stacked coating film X is a thin film in the stacked coating film X a part of the multilayer film or the thin film Y is distinguished by the refractive index. For example in a case where a thin film less than 70 nm made of a material having a refractive index of at least 1.90 is in contact with the coating film of the stacked coating film X the thin film is a part of the high refractive index multilayer film and in a case where a thin film less than 70 nm made of a material having a refractive index less than 1.90 is in contact with the coating film of the stacked coating film X the thin film is the thin film Y .

Although the thin film Y is not the main film to impart infrared reflection performance to the glass plate it may affect the infrared reflection performance. Further in order to fulfill the role to determine the reflected colors the visible light transmittance etc. in a case where the thin film Y is laminated all the films including the thin film Y are considered to be related to optical characteristics.

The thin film Y may be an adhesive force adjusting film which adjusts adhesive properties to the interlayer. The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention is suitable for a vehicle window particularly a laminated glass for an automobile and is preferably formed into a laminated glass in such a structure that the surface on the non glass side of the stacked coating film X is in contact with the interlayer. A laminated glass is required to have predetermined penetration resistance and one factor which dominates the penetration resistance is the adhesive force between the interlayer and the stacked coating film X . Accordingly it is preferred to laminate an adhesive force adjusting film which adjusts the adhesive force between the interlayer and the stacked coating film X on the non glass plate side of the stacked coating film X . The adhesive force adjusting film may for example be a thin film made of chromium oxide. The geometrical thickness of the adhesive force adjusting film is preferably from 5 to 40 nm.

Further the thin film Y may be a film which adjusts the reflected colors or the like of the laminated glass. To impart infrared reflection function to a glass plate in order to obtain desired optical characteristics by simply sequentially stacking the coating film made of a high refractive index inorganic material and the coating film made of a low refractive index inorganic material the choices increase as the number of layers in the multilayer film increases. However as described above the durability of the film tends to deteriorate as the total thickness increases by stacking many layers and accordingly a proper film structure is required. On the other hand among many choices a case may occur that the reflection spectrum in a wavelength region of from 400 to 800 nm particularly from 400 to 600 nm has ripples of a maximum and a minimum in some cases.

If ripples occur the wavelength at the reflection transmission maximum shifts due to variation unevenness of the film thickness in a plane which is visually perceived as glitter of the reflected transmitted colors i.e. iridescence and the reflected color distribution may occur or the infrared reflection performance may decrease. Accordingly it is possible to suppress ripples in the reflection spectrum by forming the thin film Y on the non glass plate side of the stacked coating film X . Namely by forming the thin film Y on the non glass plate side of the stacked coating film X it is possible to obtain an infrared reflection glass plate having a Tmaintained to be at most 45 which suppresses ripples in the reflection spectrum which has favorable outer appearance and which is excellent in optical characteristics excellent in heat insulating performance .

The thin film Y to be formed for the purpose of suppressing the ripples preferably has a refractive index difference at the interface with the stacked coating film and the refractive index difference between the layer of the thin film Y and the coating film in the stacked coating film X in contact with each other is preferably at least 0.3 particularly preferably at least 0.5. Further the thin film Y preferably has a multilayer structure having films differing in the refractive index stacked.

In a case where the infrared reflection glass of the present invention is used as a laminated glass the thin film Y to suppress the ripples is preferably a thin film Y having a high refractive index layer c made of a high refractive index inorganic material having a refractive index of at least 1.90 and having a geometrical thickness of from 5 to 40 nm and a low refractive index layer d made of a low refractive index inorganic material having a refractive index of at most 1.56 and having a geometrical thickness of from 5 to 40 nm alternately stacked in a totally even number of layers the layer in contact with the coating film of the stacked coating film X being the low refractive index layer d .

The high refractive index layer c in the thin film Y may for example be a layer of titanium oxide a layer of titanium oxynitride a layer of zinc oxide a layer of tantalum oxide a layer of zirconium oxide a layer of niobium oxide a layer of tin oxide a layer of titanium nitride a layer of silicon nitride a layer of zirconium nitride a layer of aluminum nitride a layer of zirconium oxynitride or a layer of tin oxynitride and is preferably a layer of titanium oxide. The low refractive index layer d may for example be a layer of silicon oxide a layer of magnesium fluoride or a layer of a composite oxide of silicon oxide with another material e.g. Al F C B or P and is preferably a layer of silicon oxide.

Further the thin film Y may be a multilayer thin film comprising the above film to suppress the ripples and the adhesive force adjusting film to adjust the adhesive force to the interlayer laminated on the non glass surface side of the above film.

Further the geometrical thickness total thickness of the entire infrared reflection film including the thin film Y is preferably from 250 to 700 nm particularly preferably from 300 to 500 nm from the viewpoint of favorable durability.

As the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention the following examples may be mentioned. Among them preferred are 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 particularly preferred are 2 and 3 and especially preferred is 3 with a view to effectively suppressing ripples and maintaining durability of the film. In the following examples the glass plate is represented by G the coating film made of a high refractive index inorganic material in the stacked coating film X is represented by H and the coating film made of a low refractive index inorganic material is represented by L. Further the high refractive index layer in the thin film Y is represented by H and the low refractive index layer is represented by L . Further the order of stacking from the glass plate is represented by the index. The layers constituting the stacked thin film X are put in a bracket and the layers constituting the thin film Y are put in a bracket .

Specifically infrared reflection glass plates having the following structures may for example be mentioned.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention of which the infrared reflection film has the above structure can provide a high solar reflectance and a small solar transmittance while securing radio wave transmission properties when formed into a laminated glass and is excellent in durability.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention preferably has radio wave transmission properties sufficiently secured since it is suitably used for a vehicle window. Specifically the sheet resistance of the infrared reflection film is preferably at least 1 k more preferably at least 1 M furthermore preferably at least 1 G . The higher the sheet resistance the better and accordingly the upper limit is not particularly limited. Further a material forming the infrared reflection film has when subjected to heat treatment a higher sheet resistance than the sheet resistance before heat treatment since oxidation of the material proceeds.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention includes an infrared reflection glass plate produced by applying heat treatment in e.g. bending or tempering to a precursor of the infrared reflection glass plate. The precursor of the infrared reflection glass plate in the present invention means the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention before heat treatment. Between the infrared reflection glass plate before heat treatment i.e. the precursor and the infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment there is usually a change in the material of the infrared reflection film in addition to changes of e.g. the shape which are the objects of the heat treatment. The change of the material is mainly caused by the process of oxidation of the material and for example the ratio of nitrogen atoms in titanium oxynitride decreases and the ratio of oxygen atoms increases. However even the precursor itself has a function as an infrared reflection glass plate. Further the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention is not limited to one produced via heat treatment.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention obtained via heat treatment can be produced by applying heat treatment in e.g. bending or tempering to the precursor of the infrared reflection glass. The heat treatment may be carried out under conditions which are usually employed in usual bending or tempering and it can be carried out within a temperature range of from 550 to 700 C. preferably from 600 to 700 C. Specifically it is carried out under conditions at a preset temperature of 650 C. for a heat treatment time of 15 minutes.

By heat treatment of the precursor the material constituting the film of the precursor may undergo oxidation or does not change if its oxidation will no more proceed. When the material constituting the film before heat treatment is a metal oxide such as silicon oxide titanium oxide zirconium oxide or chromium oxide it may undergo oxidation by heat treatment. Further when the material constituting the film before heat treatment is an oxynitride such as titanium oxynitride or a nitride such as titanium nitride it undergoes oxidation by heat treatment and releases nitrogen simultaneously. Accordingly in the case of an oxynitride or a nitride the ratio of nitrogen atoms contained in the material is decreased and the ratio of oxygen atoms is increased by heat treatment and in some cases the material becomes an oxide containing substantially no nitrogen atoms.

In a case where the coating film in the infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment is made of titanium oxide the material of the corresponding coating film in the precursor is preferably titanium oxynitride. In a case where the coating film in the infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment is made of titanium oxynitride the material of the corresponding coating film in the precursor is preferably titanium oxynitride having a higher ratio of nitrogen atoms to titanium atoms than that of titanium oxynitride after heat treatment. By use of such titanium oxynitride as the material of the coating film of the precursor cracks will be reduced as described above. Also when the coating film is the high refractive index multilayer film and its main layer is a layer of a titanium compound the corresponding layer before heat treatment is preferably the above described layer of titanium oxynitride.

On the other hand when the thin film Y includes a layer of titanium oxide the corresponding layer in the precursor is not required to be a layer of titanium oxynitride. Since the layer of titanium oxide in the thin film Y is a thin layer as compared with the coating film cracks are less likely to occur by heat treatment even when the layer of the precursor is a layer of titanium oxide. When a layer of titanium oxynitride is employed as the high refractive index layer of the thin film Y in the precursor in the same manner as described above the layer becomes a layer of titanium oxynitride having a reduced ratio of nitrogen atoms or a layer of titanium oxide by heat treatment.

Further in a case where the coating film is a coating film made of a material other than a titanium compound or the high refractive index multilayer film including a layer of such a material since the volume shrinkage of such a material by heat treatment is usually small and the material adapts to the heat treatment the need of changing the material is small. However in the case of an oxide the degree of oxidation may proceed. For example the layer of zirconium oxide after heat treatment may be a layer of zirconium oxide in the precursor. Likewise since the volume shrinkage of the material of the coating film and the material of the low refractive index layer d in the thin film Y is small by heat treatment and they adopt to heat treatment the need for changing the materials is small.

In the precursor in the present invention all layers corresponding to the layer of titanium oxide or titanium oxynitride i.e. a layer of a titanium compound in the coating film of the infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment are preferably layers of titanium oxynitride. This applies to both a case where the coating film is a single layer film and a case where it is a multilayer film. Further since an oxynitride such as titanium oxynitride releases nitrogen by heat treatment and thereby has a reduced ratio of nitrogen atoms titanium oxynitride in the precursor corresponding to the preferred infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment is preferably titanium oxynitride having a higher ratio of nitrogen atoms as compared with that of titanium oxynitride in the infrared reflection glass plate.

In a case where in the infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment the coating film contains titanium oxynitride TiON in order to obtain favorable optical characteristics such as the reflectance and the transmittance in titanium oxynitride the ratio of nitrogen to titanium is preferably from 0.1 to 20 particularly preferably from 1 to 15 especially preferably from 1 to 10 .

In order to obtain an infrared reflection glass plate having such a nitrogen content after heat treatment the nitrogen content in the layer of titanium oxynitride in the coating film in the precursor is equal to or higher than the nitrogen content of the coating film in the infrared reflection glass plate after heat treatment. Usually the ratio of nitrogen to titanium is from 0.1 to 80 . Further the effect of suppressing cracks at the time of heat treatment is related to the nitrogen content of titanium oxynitride. In order to obtain a higher effect of suppressing cracks the ratio of nitrogen to titanium before heat treatment is particularly preferably from 1 to 20 especially preferably from 2 to 15 .

In the present invention the composition of the titanium oxynitride layer can be directly measured by a method employing RBS Rutherford backscattering spectrometry and NRA Nuclear reaction analysis in combination.

Further by X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS ESCA Electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis or the like it is difficult to directly measure the composition of the titanium oxynitride layer the ratios of oxygen and nitrogen in the titanium oxynitride layer specifically values x and y but it can measure the ratio of nitrogen to titanium N Ti . Even when it is difficult to directly measure the composition approximate values can be estimated since the ratio of nitrogen to titanium is determined by measurement the value x y is considered to be approximately from 1.8 to 2.1 and from other reasons. For example when the amount of nitrogen to titanium is 0.1 once the value y is fixed it is considered that x 1.799 to 2.099 and y 0.001.

As examples values x and y in the preferred composition of the titanium oxynitride layer are shown in Table 1. These values are values calculated by fixing the value y based on the above preconditions.

Such an infrared reflection glass plate can be produced by heating the precursor of the infrared reflection glass plate to convert titanium oxynitride in the layer of titanium oxynitride in the precursor to titanium oxynitride having a decreased ratio of nitrogen atoms as compared with titanium oxynitride in the precursor. Further in a case where the layer corresponding to the layer of a titanium compound in the infrared reflection glass plate is a layer of titanium oxide it may be heated until the layer of titanium oxynitride in the precursor is converted to titanium oxide.

The infrared reflection glass plate including the precursor of the present invention can be produced by a method of laminating the above coating films and the thin film on the glass plate surface. The method of forming the respective coating films and the thin film is not particularly limited but is preferably a sputtering method.

The sputtering method may for example be a DC direct current sputtering method an AC alternating current sputtering method a radio frequency sputtering method or a magnetron sputtering method. Among them a DC magnetron sputtering method and an AC magnetron sputtering method are preferred in view of stable process and easy film deposition on a large area.

The material of the target and the composition of the sputtering gas are selected depending upon the type of the film to be deposited. Further the sputtering conditions e.g. pressure temperature are properly determined depending upon the type the thickness and the like of the film to be deposited. The total pressure of the sputtering gas may be a pressure under which glow discharge is stably carried out.

Now the present invention will be described with reference to formation of three coating films as an example.

As formation of the coating film made of titanium oxide a method may suitably be mentioned of carrying out a reactive sputtering method using TiO 1

As formation of the coating film made of titanium oxynitride a method may suitably be mentioned of carrying out a reactive sputtering method using TiO 1

As formation of the coating film made of silicon oxide a method may suitably be mentioned of carrying out a reactive sputtering method using silicon carbide SiC or polycrystalline silicon as the target and using a gas containing a gas containing oxygen atoms as the sputtering gas.

As formation of the coating film made of zirconium oxide a method may suitably be mentioned of carrying out reactive sputtering using Zr as the target and using a gas containing a gas containing oxygen atoms as the sputtering gas.

The target may be doped with a known dopant such as Al Si or Zn within a range not to impair the scope of the present invention.

The gas containing a gas containing nitrogen atoms is not particularly limited so long as it contains a gas containing nitrogen atoms and it may for example be a gas containing nitrogen atoms or a gas mixture of a gas containing nitrogen atoms with an inert gas. The gas containing nitrogen atoms may for example be nitrogen gas N NO NO NOor NH. The inert gas may for example be a rare gas such as helium neon argon krypton or xenon. Among them in view of economical efficiency and easiness of discharge argon is preferred. The gas containing nitrogen atoms may be used alone or as a mixture of two or more of them.

The gas containing a gas containing oxygen atoms is not particularly limited so long as it contains a gas containing oxygen atoms and it may for example be a gas containing oxygen atoms or a gas mixture of a gas containing oxygen atoms with an inert gas. The gas containing oxygen atoms may for example be oxygen gas O or carbon dioxide gas CO . The inert gas is as mentioned above. The gas containing a gas containing oxygen atoms may be used alone or as a mixture of two or more of them.

The infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention is suitably used for a laminated glass for a vehicle window. Namely the present invention provides a laminated glass for a vehicle window which comprises a first glass plate a second glass plate having an infrared reflection film having a sheet resistance of at least 1 k and an interlayer having infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein interposed between the first glass plate and the second glass plate the first glass plate being disposed on the car interior side.

Each of the thicknesses of the first and the second glass plates is preferably from 1.5 to 3.0 mm. In such a case the first and the second glass plates may have the same thickness or different thicknesses. For use of the laminated glass for an automobile window for example both the first and the second glass plates have a thickness of 2.0 mm or a thickness of 2.1 mm. Further for example the thickness of the first glass plate is less than 2 mm and the thickness of the second glass plate is slightly thicker than 2 mm whereby the total thickness of the laminated glass can be reduced and the laminated glass is resistant to external force from the car exterior side as well. Each of the first and the second glass plates may be flat or bent. The first and the second glass plates are bent in many cases since vehicle particularly automobile windows are bent in many cases. In such a case the infrared reflection film is provided on the concave side of the second glass plate. Further as the case requires three or more glass plates may be used.

Further in the present invention it is preferred to use green transparent soda lime silica glass or deep color glass for the first glass plate and to use transparent and colorless soda lime silica glass for the second glass plate whereby the solar energy can be reflected as far as possible and in addition transmission of the solar energy entering the car interior can be suppressed as far as possible and functions as the infrared reflection film can sufficiently be exhibited.

Further when the laminated glass of the present invention is assembled in a vehicle it is preferred that the laminated glass of the present invention is disposed so that the second glass plate is disposed on the car exterior side and with respect to light incident from the second glass plate side the reflectance to light at all wavelengths of from 900 to 1 100 nm is from 30 to 50 the absorptivity to light at all wavelengths of from 1 100 to 1 300 nm is from 35 to 60 and the transmittance to light at all wavelengths of from 900 to 1 300 nm is at most 30 whereby the solar energy can be reflected as far as possible without being excessively absorbed in the laminated glass and the solar transmittance can be suppressed low while securing the radio wave transmission properties.

When the laminated glass for a vehicle window has the above properties with respect to the light incident from the second glass plate side a sufficient heat insulating function can be obtained. However if the absorptivity to light at all wavelengths of from 1 100 to 1 300 nm is low the solar transmittance tends to be high. Accordingly to realize more favorable heat insulating performance it is preferred that with respect to light incident from the second glass plate side the reflectance to light at all wavelengths of from 900 to 1 100 nm is from 30 to 50 the absorptivity to light at all wavelengths of from 1 100 to 1 300 nm is from 40 to 60 and the transmittance to light at all wavelengths of from 900 to 1 500 nm is at most 30 .

Further in order that an infrared sensor such as an optical beacon properly functions it is required to suppress reflection to light at a wavelength of 850 nm to maintain a sufficient transmittance. Since the spectral properties such as a reflectance continuously change the reflectance to light at a wavelength of 850 nm is affected by reflectances at wavelengths in the vicinity thereof. Accordingly in order that an infrared sensor such as an optical beacon functions the reflectance to light at a wavelength of 900 nm should be a small value to a certain extent. In order to satisfy both secure function of an infrared sensor and heat insulating performance it is preferred that the reflectance to light at a wavelength of 900 nm is from 20 to 40 the reflectance to light at all wavelengths of from 1 000 to 1 100 nm is from 30 to 50 the absorptivity to light at all wavelengths of from 1 100 to 1 300 nm is from 35 to 60 and the transmittance to light at all wavelengths of from 900 to 1 500 nm is at most 30 . In this embodiment the reflectance to light in a region exceeding 900 nm and less than 1 000 nm continuously changes between the reflectance to light at a wavelength of 900 nm and the reflectance to light at a wavelength of 1 000. In this embodiment also the absorptivity to light at all wavelengths of from 1 100 to 1 300 nm is particularly preferably from 40 to 60 .

The interlayer in the present invention may be an interlayer having infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein or a usual interlayer and the former is preferred. As a material of the interlayer usually a polyvinyl butyral is used. In addition an ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer may for example be used. The interlayer having infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein is obtained by dispersing infrared shielding fine particles in such a material for the interlayer to prepare a film thereby to obtain an interlayer having the infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein. The infrared shielding fine particles may for example be fine particles of a metal such as Sn Ti Si Zn Zr Fe Al Cr Co Ce In Ni Ag Cu Pt Mn Ta W V or Mo an oxide a nitride a sulfide or such a material doped with Sb or F. Among these materials it is preferred to use at least one member selected from the group consisting of antimony doped tin oxide ATO fine particles ITO fine particles and zinc oxide fine particles since ATO ITO and zinc oxide fine particles are excellent in infrared shielding performance and accordingly the amount blended in the interlayer can be reduced. Among them it is particularly preferred to use ITO fine particles as the infrared shielding fine particles which are excellent in infrared shielding performance.

The infrared shielding fine particles preferably have a small particle size so as to suppress light scattering. The particle size is preferably at most 0.2 m particularly preferably from 0.001 to 0.15 m. Further the content of the infrared shielding fine particles is usually preferably from 0.1 to 1 mass particularly preferably from 0.1 to 0.5 mass especially preferably from 0.2 to 0.3 mass based on the entire interlayer.

The interlayer having infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein can be obtained for example by the following production process. Namely first the infrared shielding fine particles are dispersed in a plasticizer for the interlayer. Then the plasticizer having the infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein is dispersively added to a resin solution for the interlayer followed by mixing and kneading to obtain a resin material for the film. Then the resin material for the film is formed into a film e.g. by extrusion to obtain an interlayer having infrared shielding fine particles dispersed therein. When the plasticizer is dispersively added various additives may be added to the resin solution for the interlayer. The additives may for example be various pigments an organic ultraviolet absorber and an organic infrared absorber. Further a solvent for the plasticizer and the resin solution for the interlayer may be a known solvent.

The interlayer obtained as described above has a thickness of from about 0.5 to about 1 mm usually 0.76 mm.

A process for producing the laminated glass for a vehicle window of the present invention is not particularly limited and it may for example be a process of sandwiching the interlayer between the infrared reflection film on the second glass plate having the infrared reflection film and the first glass plate followed by pressing for unification.

The laminated glass for a vehicle window of the present invention has a visible light transmittance of preferably at least 70 particularly preferably at least 75 so that it can be used also for a windshield of an automobile.

Now the present invention will be described in further detail with reference to Examples but the present invention is by no means restricted to such specific Examples. Examples 1 to 8 are Examples and Examples 9 to 11 are Comparative Examples.

In the present invention the absorptivity is represented by the formula absorptivity 1 transmittance reflectance . Strictly light entering a glass article is reflected absorbed transmitted and in addition scattered . However in the case of glass articles the loss due to scattering is very small and accordingly it is reasonable to represent the absorptivity by 1 transmittance reflectance .

Further Examples by simulation were conducted based on data obtained by measuring the refractive index at each wavelength and the extinction coefficient at each wavelength with respect to a sample formed in a single layer from a material constituting each coating film on a glass plate.

Three types of glass plates having a thickness of 2 mm having dimensions of 100 mm 100 mm Examples 1 to 3 200 mm 200 mm Examples 4 to 6 and about 1 200 mm about 1 650 mm Examples 7 and 8 were prepared. The three types of glass plates are as mentioned hereinafter. In Examples 7 and 8 using a sample obtained by depositing an infrared reflection film on the glass plate of the above size and then cutting the glass plate into a size of 100 mm 100 mm evaluation of an infrared reflection glass preparation of a laminated glass and evaluation of the laminated glass were conducted. Further the spectral properties of the glass plate itself were also evaluated using a sample of 100 mm 100 mm.

 1 Transparent and colorless soda lime silica glass manufactured by Asahi Glass Company Limited hereinafter referred to as FL 

 2 Transparent and colorless soda lime silica glass manufactured by Glayerbel S.A. hereinafter referred to as FL 

 3 Green transparent soda lime silica glass having ultraviolet absorption performance manufactured by Asahi Glass Company Limited hereinafter referred to as UVFL .

In preparation of a laminated glass having a structure shown in on the assumption that FL or FL is used for a car exterior side glass plate and UVFL is used for a car interior side glass plate UVFL was used as a glass plate and FL or FL was used as a glass plate .

With respect to such a glass plate the transmittance and the reflectance at wavelengths of from 300 to 2 100 nm were measured by a spectrophotometer U4000 manufactured by Hitachi Limited and the visible light transmittance T the solar transmittance T the visible light reflectance R and the solar reflectance R were determined in accordance with JIS R3106. The results are shown in Table 2.

Further a graph illustrating spectral transmittances of glass plates is shown in and a graph illustrating spectral reflectances of glass plates is shown in . The vertical axis represents the transmittance or reflectance and the horizontal axis represents the wavelength nm . In transparent and colorless glass corresponds to FL transparent and colorless glass corresponds to FL colored transparent glass corresponds to UVFL and colored transparent glass corresponds to UVFL. UVFL is not used in this Example but this glass plate can also be used for the present invention.

Eight types of glass plates provided with an infrared reflection film having the structure shown in having the following film structures were prepared Film Examples 1 to 8 . The numbers in brackets represent geometrical thicknesses nm of the respective coating films. Further the refractive indices of materials used in Film Examples 1 to 8 are shown in Table 3. These values are values at a wavelength of 550 nm and are values in a state where no heat treatment is applied.

Of each of the titanium oxynitride layers in Film Examples 1 to 6 the ratio of nitrogen to titanium was measured by ESCA and values x and y were determined by the above preconditions disclosed in the description. The results are based on data measured with respect to a sample obtained by depositing only a titanium oxynitride layer on a glass plate. It is considered that the ratio of nitrogen to titanium in the sample in which only a titanium oxynitride layer was deposited is the same as that measured in an infrared reflection glass plate. In Table the ratio of nitrogen to titanium is represented by N Ti .

Further of the titanium oxynitride layer in the infrared reflection glass plate in Film Example 8 the composition before and after heat treatment was measured to determine the ratio of nitrogen to titanium and values x and y. The composition was measured by a method of employing RBS Rutherford backscattering spectrometry and NRA Nuclear reaction analysis in combination. By this method the composition can directly be measured and the error is at a level of 10 .

Each of the infrared reflection films in Film Examples 1 to 6 was prepared by stacking a TiONlayer and a SiOlayer in this order in a total layer numbers of 5 on a glass plate.

A SiC target as the sputtering target was placed on the cathode in the vacuum chamber and the vacuum chamber was evacuated of air to 1.3 10Pa or below. Then a gas mixture of 40 sccm of argon gas with 60 sccm of oxygen gas was introduced as the sputtering gas. On that occasion the pressure was 6.0 10Pa. In such a state a reactive sputtering method was carried out by using a DC pulse power supply to form a SiOfilm on the coating film of the object to be treated placed in the vacuum chamber.

Each of the infrared reflection films in Film Examples 7 and 8 was obtained by depositing a ZrOfilm a TiONfilm a SiOfilm a ZrOfilm a TiONfilm a SiOfilm and a TiOfilm in this order on a glass plate in accordance with the following procedure.

A Zr target as the sputtering target was placed on a cathode in a vacuum chamber and the vacuum chamber was evacuated of air to 1.3 10Pa or below. Then oxygen gas and argon gas in a ratio volume ratio of 70 30 as the sputtering gas were introduced until the pressure became 4.0 10Pa. In such a state a reactive sputtering method was carried out by using a DC pulse power supply to form a ZrOlayer on an object to be treated placed in the vacuum chamber.

A Si target as the sputtering target was placed on the cathode in the vacuum chamber and the vacuum chamber was evacuated of air to 1.3 10Pa or below. Then argon gas and oxygen gas in a ratio volume ratio of 39 61 as the sputtering gas were introduced until the pressure became 4.0 10Pa. In such a state a reactive sputtering method was carried out by using an AC power supply to form a SiOlayer on the object to be treated placed in the vacuum chamber.

Of the infrared reflection glass on which the infrared reflection film was formed as described above the reflectance at wavelengths of from 300 to 2 100 nm was measured by a spectrophotometer U4000 manufactured by Hitachi Limited to determine the visible light reflectance R and the solar reflectance R in accordance with JIS R3106. In Table 6 an infrared reflection glass having the film in Film Example 1 will be referred to as an infrared reflection glass in Example 1 and the same applies to the other Examples. In Examples 1 to 6 samples before heat treatment were measured and in Examples 7 and 8 samples subjected to heat treatment at a preset temperature of 620 C. for 7 minutes using a roller hearth furnace were measured. In the infrared reflection glasses in Examples 7 and 8 no cracks occurred in the film even after heat treatment.

A laminated glass having a structure shown in was prepared. The first glass plate was the above prepared UVFL glass plate and the second glass plate was the above prepared FL glass plate having each of infrared reflection films in Film Examples 1 to 8. For the interlayer a PVB polyvinyl butyral interlayer having ITO fine particles dispersed therein used for Coolverre manufactured by Asahi Glass Company Limited registered trademark was used. Hereinafter a laminated glass having the film in Film Example 1 will be referred to as a laminated glass in Example 1 and the same applies to the other Examples. The PVB interlayer had a thickness of 0.76 mm. Further the content of the ITO fine particles was 0.2 mass based on the PVB interlayer.

Of the laminated glasses in Examples 1 to 8 thus obtained the visible light transmittance T the solar transmittance T the visible light reflectance R and the solar reflectance R to light incident from the second glass plate side were obtained. Values in Examples 1 to 6 are values by simulation based on spectral properties data of the infrared reflection glass plate and values in Examples 7 and 8 are values determined in accordance with JIS R3106 with respect to transmittances and reflectances at wavelengths of from 300 to 2 100 nm measured by a spectrophotometer U4000 manufactured by Hitachi Limited .

Further the sheet resistance G of each of the infrared reflection films in Film Examples 1 to 8 was measured by a two probe resistivity meter HIRESTA IP manufactured by Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co. Ltd. before preparation of the laminated glass after film formation and before heat treatment . After heat treatment oxidation of the film material proceeds whereby the resistance will be higher than the measured value and thus it is found that each of the sheet resistances of the infrared reflection films in Film Examples 1 to 8 after formation of a laminated glass is higher than 1 k 1 G .

Further for comparison comparative samples Examples 9 to 11 were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 1 to 8 except that a FL glass plate having no infrared reflection film formed was used. The structure of the comparative samples is FL ITO fine particles dispersed PVB interlayer UVFL.

Of the samples in Examples 9 to 11 also the visible light transmittance T the solar transmittance T the visible light reflectance R and the solar reflectance R to light incident from the second glass plate side were obtained. Further the visible light absorptivity A and the solar absorptivity A were determined. The results are shown in Table 7. In graphs illustrating spectral transmittances spectral reflectances and spectral absorptivities are shown.

As described above by the laminated glass using the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention even when an infrared reflection film having radio wave transmission properties is used Rof at least 20 is achieved while Tis at most 45 . The laminated glass using the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention can efficiently reflects solar energy and suppress transmission of the solar energy entering the car interior and is thereby excellent in heat insulating performance. Further when the value Tis reduced only by a level of 1 the scorching feeling by incident light is reduced and accordingly the laminated glass using the infrared reflection glass of the present invention can reduce unpleasant feeling of passengers as compared with a conventional laminated glass having no infrared reflection film.

In addition since Rcan be suppressed to be at most 12 it is considered that the maximum peak in the reflection spectrum in the visible region particularly in a region of from 400 to 600 nm can be suppressed and it is found that a laminated glass having ripples suppressed with small color irregularity can be obtained. Particularly laminated glasses in Examples 2 4 5 and 8 can suppress Rto at most 10 and are thereby considered to be laminated glasses excellent in outer appearance suitably used also for an automobile window.

According to a laminated glass for a vehicle window comprising the infrared reflection glass plate of the present invention by reflecting the solar energy as far as possible without adsorbing it in the laminated glass transmission of the solar energy entering the car interior can be suppressed and the increase in the car interior temperature can be suppressed. By using such a laminated glass for a vehicle window the increase in the car interior temperature can be prevented in an environment to be subjected to sun light such as during traveling in the daytime or during parking and the frequency of use or the load of air conditioners can be reduced such contributes to improvement in the mileage of a vehicle or to suppression of the increase in the mileage.

The laminated glass for a vehicle window of the present invention is suitably used particularly for a windshield of an automobile and in addition it can be used for a moving window a side fixed window a backlight a roof window and the like. When it is used for all such windows of an automobile it can further prevent the temperature increase in the automobile.

The entire disclosures of Japanese Patent Application No. 2005 235726 filed on Aug. 16 2005 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2005 254905 filed on Sep. 2 2005 including specifications claims drawings and summaries are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

