---

title: Method and apparatus for interactive programming using captioning
abstract: A method and system for the creation of interactive programming using captions. A caption and program information extractor monitors a broadcast media signal having captions and program information encoded in the broadcast media signal. The captions and program information are extracted and stored in a content database. A moderator accesses the content database to retrieve captions and for a program specified by the program information. The moderator uses the services of a moderator server to generate interactive programming from the captions and the moderator's own comments. The interactive programming is transmitted to a plurality of viewers who interact with the interactive programming by entering viewer comments. The viewer comments are received by the moderator along with additional captions and new interactive programming is generated using the viewer comments, additional captions, and additional moderator commentary.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937740&OS=07937740&RS=07937740
owner: MediaIP, Inc.
number: 07937740
owner_city: Rydal
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080916
---
This patent application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 222 461 filed Aug. 16 2002 now abandoned entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE PROGRAMMING USING CAPTIONING which is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 575 filed on Dec. 29 2005 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE VIDEO ON DEMAND which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 414 863 filed on Apr. 15 2003 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE VIDEO ON DEMAND and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 335 200 filed Jan. 18 2006 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTERNET BASED INTERACTIVE PROGRAMMING which is continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 123 618 filed Apr. 15 2002 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTERNET BASED INTERACTIVE PROGRAMMING the contents of all of which are incorporated by reference as if stated fully herein.

This invention pertains generally to the field of interactive programming and more specifically to creating interactive programming using captions from television programs.

Some television programs include captioning information created by the television program broadcaster. The captions are encoded into the television signal and broadcast to a viewer s television where the captions are extracted from the television signal and displayed on the viewer s television screen. The captions are intended for the hearing impaired and contain textual representations of the auditory components of a television broadcast. While intended for the hearing impaired captions are used in a variety of situations. For example the captions may be used in lieu of the audio components of the television signal so that viewers can still watch television in environments where the noise levels are very high for example in a gymnasium.

The captioning for a television program include a textual representation of the entire contents of the television program since the captions are intended as a complete replacement for the audio components of a television program. This aspect of captions makes the captions useful for a variety of other purposes. For example the captions can be used to create transcriptions of a television program for archival purposes. In addition the captions provide a compact representation of the complete television program. Finally a description or metadata may be generated for a television program using the caption information. These different uses for captioning data make captioning an attractive source of information and content for people desiring to form special interest groups or communities around particular television programs. For example a commentator may want to create a talkshow to explore news items included in a televised news report. Such a talkshow would allow viewers and a commentator to fully explore news items within the context of a news broadcast.

Therefore a need exists for an interactive program generation tool allowing the creation of a talkshow from captioning data. Such a tool should be lightweight meaning it does not require a lot of processing resources to run and should be able to generate interactive programming for a variety of different display devices. The present invention meets such a need.

In one aspect of the invention a caption and program information extractor monitors a broadcast media signal having captions and program information encoded in the broadcast media signal. A caption and program information extractor monitors a broadcast media signal having captions and program information encoded in the broadcast media signal. The captions and program information are extracted and stored in a content database. A moderator accesses the content database to retrieve captions and for a program specified by the program information. The moderator uses the services of a moderator server to generate interactive programming from the captions and the moderator s own comments. The interactive programming is transmitted to a plurality of viewers who interact with the interactive programming by entering viewer comments. The viewer comments are received by the moderator along with additional captions and new interactive programming is generated using the viewer comments additional captions and additional moderator commentary.

In one aspect of the invention a method for generating an interactive program for transmission over a communications network is provided. A caption and program information extractor extracts captions and program information from a broadcast media signal and puts the captions and program information in a content database. A moderator server is coupled through the communications network to a moderator client and a plurality of viewer clients. The moderator server receives moderator comments and edited viewer comments from the moderator client through the communications network and gets captions and program information from the content database. The moderator server then generates interactive programming using the moderator comments edited viewer comments program information and captions and transmits the interactive programming to the viewer clients through the communications network.

In another aspect of the invention the moderator server receives viewer comments from the viewer clients and transmits the viewer comments to the moderator client through the communications network.

In another aspect of the invention the viewers rate an interactive program by further including an interactive program rating signal in the viewer comment signals. In response a moderator may transmit a viewer exclusion signal specifying a viewer client to the moderator server and the moderator server generates the interactive programming using the viewer exclusion signal to exclude viewer comments received from the specific viewer client. In addition the moderator may transmit a viewer invitation signal corresponding to a specific viewer client to the moderator server and the moderator server generates viewer interactive programming using the viewer invitation signal to include viewer comments from the specific viewer client on a virtual stage.

In another aspect of the invention an apparatus is provided for generating an interactive program for transmission over a television broadcast network and a communications network. The apparatus includes a content database a caption and program information extractor coupled to a broadcast media signal source and the content database and a moderator server coupled to a moderator client the content database and the television broadcast network. The moderator server includes a processor and a memory operably coupled to the processor. Program instructions stored in the memory are executed by the processor to implement the features of an interactive programming generation system. The program instructions include receiving moderator comments and edited viewer comments by the moderator server from the moderator client getting captions and program information by the moderator server from the content database generating viewer interactive programming using the moderator comments edited viewer comments program information and captions and transmitting the interactive programming by the moderator server to viewer televisions through the television broadcast network.

In another aspect of the invention the moderator server is further coupled to a plurality of viewer clients through the communications network. The program instructions further include receiving viewer comments by the moderator server from viewer clients through the communications network and transmitting the viewer comments by the moderator server to the moderator client through the communications network.

In another aspect of the invention an apparatus for generating an interactive program for transmission over a television broadcast network is provided. The apparatus includes a content database and a caption and program information extractor coupled to a broadcast media signal source. The caption and program information extractor extracts captions and program information from a broadcast media signal and puts the captions and program information in the content database. A moderator server is coupled to a moderator client through the communications network and coupled to the content database. The moderator server is further coupled to the television broadcast network. The moderator server includes programming instructions for generation of interactive programming from the captions and program information. The moderator server receives moderator comments and edited viewer comments from the moderator client through the communications network and gets captions and program information from the content database. The moderator server then generates interactive programming using the moderator comments edited viewer comments program information and captions and transmits the interactive programming to viewer televisions through the television broadcast network. In another aspect of the invention the moderator server is further coupled to a telephony network and viewers communicate with the moderator server through the telephony network.

The moderator controls the content of the interactive program in a variety of ways. The moderator introduces the initial topic or content for audience interaction. For example the moderator may introduce a topical event such as a news story and then ask for participant comments. The moderator may also use previously prepared content such as a non interactive program that is transmitted to the audience in order to elicit audience member responses and engage viewers. The moderator can invite virtual guests from the audience onto the virtual stage. While on the virtual stage the virtual guests exchange interactive messages directly with the moderator rather than with other audience members or participants. The moderator may also exclude a participant or viewer from the audience. Additionally the moderator may generate additional interactive programming for use by the audience such as polls so that the audience can participate in the interactive program by selecting responses to a question from a list of answers. The results of the participant responses are aggregated for inclusion in the interactive program.

In one system for creating an interactive program incorporating participant interactions in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the interactive programs are talk shows hosted by independent moderators and delivered to an audience via the Internet. This system allows a moderator to be recognized as an expert or respected voice in a particular field while building a community of viewer participants interested in that particular field. The system allows the moderator to create a controlled and moderated environment where the moderator directs the flow of information and has complete control over the medium. The system is cost effective because no special hardware or training is needed to operate the system. The system features a customizable Web based interface for moderators and viewers to use in creating customized collaborative interactive programs.

In a system for creating an interactive program incorporating viewer interactions in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the moderator server is operably coupled to content server via a communications link . The content server hosts a content source such as content database including content suitable for broadcast by the moderator server. Such content may include past broadcast programs that the moderator is using as a topic for further discussion within the audience. The moderator instructs the moderator server to request and receive content signals from the content server and the moderator server generates an interactive program including the content signals. In this way non interactive content may be enhanced with an interactive component thus leveraging non interactive content by creating an interactive program using content without an interactive component. In another embodiment of enhanced content the content is synchronized with the interactive component and the content is transmitted to the viewer client from a server other than the moderator server in a program synchronous fashion.

In a system for creating an interactive program incorporating viewer interactions in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the moderator server hosts software facilities for the moderator to use in generating an interactive program. The moderator server is operably coupled to a moderator database including moderator information describing the type of interactive program the moderator produces and the moderator s interactive program broadcast schedule. The moderator information may be used to automatically generate a dynamic programming guide thus helping viewers find the moderator s interactive program. In addition the moderator server records viewer interaction data describing the amount timing and type of viewer interactions with the moderator s produced interactive programming. The moderator may access the viewer interaction data to generate reports regarding the moderator s interactive programming.

In a system for creating an interactive program incorporating viewer interactions in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the moderator server hosts a viewer database including viewer profile information. Viewer profile information includes information about viewer preferences and viewer notification requests. The viewer preferences are used by the moderator server to suggest interactive programming generated by a moderator which may match the viewer s stated preferences. The viewer notification requests are used by the moderator server to generate viewer notifications that are transmitted to a viewer in order to notify a viewer when a specific interactive program is about to be broadcast.

In one embodiment of a viewer notification generation process in accordance with the present invention the privacy of the viewer is protected by not allowing the moderator access to viewer profiles. For example the moderator may initiate a notification process but the moderator is never allowed to see to which viewers the notifications are sent. In addition any viewership reports generated on behalf of a moderator use aggregate data for the viewers so that the viewers identifications are not associated with the individual viewership reports.

In a system for creating an interactive program incorporating viewer interactions in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the audience and moderator comment on a broadcast program over which the moderator has minimal control. In this embodiment a broadcaster transmits a broadcast media signal received by a viewer s broadcast media receiver and a moderator s broadcast media receiver . In this embodiment the moderator and the audience watch the broadcast program and exchange commentary about the broadcast program over the communications network as described above. In this way non interactive programming can be supplemented with an interactive component. Exemplary broadcast programs include broadcasts of real time events such as sporting events or breaking news stories and pre recorded programming such entertainment programs or documentaries.

In one embodiment of a system for creating an interactive program in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the interactive programming generated by the moderator server is stored in a moderator database for example moderator database of for archival purposes. The interactive programming can be indexed and cataloged for generation of an archive listing describing the archived interactive programming. A viewer can then request archived interactive programming for viewing at a later time for on demand viewing.

In one embodiment of a system for creating an interactive program in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a viewer can initiate the creation of an archive for an interactive program. As the interactive program is produced and transmitted to the viewer the interactive program signals are stored for the viewer s own use. For example a viewer can initiate the creation of an archive for a short period of time so that the viewer can leave the interactive program and rejoin the interactive program and be able to view the portions of the interactive program that the viewer missed. As another example the viewer can create a personal archive of past interactive programs in a manner similar to a personal video recorder.

In another system for creating an interactive program in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the communications network is the Internet and the viewer clients and a moderator client are Web browsers. The moderator server receives moderator and participant comment signals in the form of POST requests and generates the interactive program as an interactive electronic document written in a document markup language such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML or extensible Markup Language XML that is transmitted to the viewer clients. The viewer clients parse the electronic document and generate viewer displays using the instructions in the electronic document. The viewers respond to the viewer displays by entering text and selecting elements from the viewer displays. These viewer interactions are transmitted to the moderator server by the viewer s clients in subsequent POST messages. The moderator receives a different set of interactive moderator electronic documents that implement a moderator user interface enabling the moderator to control the operations of the moderator server.

In one system for creating an interactive program in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system is deployed using the Microsoft TV platform which is a standards based client and server software middleware system for deploying interactive programming. The platform includes a client software application hosted by a set top box and a server software application operably coupled by a communications network. The client software application includes a Web browser that can be used much like a conventional Web browser and an application programming interface for building native applications that are hosted by the set top box. The server includes several management functions including t commerce and client management applications.

In another system for creating an interactive program in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the interactive programming generated by the moderator server further includes click through style banner ads for selection by a viewer. If a viewer selects a click through banner ad the viewer s interaction with the banner ad is recorded in a moderator database in order to generate click through activity related to the interactive programming. The banner ads may come either from the moderator server or an ad server not affiliated with the moderator server.

In another interactive program creation system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a viewer downloads and installs a custom client plug in that allows a viewer a built in microphone on the viewer client. Using a control panel participants direct their questions or comments to either the virtual stage or the audience interactive message area. The spoken words are digitized by the viewer client analyzed translated into text form and transmitted via the communications link to the moderator server. The question or comment then appears in the interactive program. The plug in allows viewers to participate in an interactive program in a traditional voice based way if they choose to.

In another interactive program creation system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the spoken words are not translated to text. Instead the digitized voice is transmitted directly over the communications link to the moderator server such as in Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP transmissions.

In another telephony process as used by a telephony system for delivery of an interactive program in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the video components of the interactive program are dispensed with and the participant interacts with the textual components of the interactive program using the telephone device. In this way an interactive program can be created by a moderator with only textual or audio and textual components that is accessible to a participant using only a telephone device.

The captioning information is included as several text streams in the broadcast media signal. In one embodiment of a broadcast media signal in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the captioning information includes a field and a field . Field includes a first captioning information and a second captioning information text stream. Field includes a third captioning information and a fourth captioning information text string as well as extended Data Service XDS information encoded in a series of packets. The fields are described in table 1a and table 1b below.

There are several different classes of XDS packets encapsulating information about a broadcast program. For example defined XDS packet classes include Current Class information about the current program such as the title length rating elapsed time audio services caption services and aspect ratio Future Class the same information for an upcoming program Channel Information Class information such as the network name station call letters native channel number and tape delay Miscellaneous Class containing the time of day and the local time zone and Public Service Class severe weather warnings . In addition Reserved and Undefined Classes are set aside for future expansion and proprietary applications.

For each Class there are two groups of similar packet types. Bit is used as an indicator of these two groups. When bit of the Type character is set to 0 the packet only describes information relating to the channel that carries the signal. This is known as an In Band packet. When bit of the Type character is set to 1 the packet only contains information for another channel. This is known as an Out of Band packet.

The Current Class includes a Program Identification Number Scheduled Start Time packet including four characters that define the program start time and date relative to Coordinated Universal Time UTC . This is non character based data so bit is always set to one. The format of the characters is identified in Table 2.

The minute field has a valid range of 0 to 59 the hour field from 0 to 23 the date field from 1 to 31 the month field from 1 to 12. The T bit is used to indicate a program that is routinely tape delayed for mountain and pacific time zones . The D L and Z bits are ignored by the decoder when processing this packet. The same format utilizes these bits for time setting. The T bit is used to determine if an offset is necessary because of local station tape delays. A separate packet of the Channel Information Class indicates the amount of tape delay used for a given time zone. When all characters of this packet contain all Ones it indicates the end of the current program. A change in received Current Class Program Identification Number is interpreted by XDS receivers as the start of a new current program.

A Length Time in Show packet is composed of 2 4 or 6 non character based informational characters. It is used to indicate the scheduled length of the program as well as the elapsed time for the program. The first two informational characters are used to indicate the program s length in hours and minutes. The second two informational characters show the current time elapsed by the program in hours and minutes. The final two informational characters extend the elapsed time count with seconds. The informational characters are encoded as indicated in Table 3.

The minute second fields have a valid range of 0 to 59 and the hour fields from 0 to 63. The sixth character is a standard null.

The Program Name packet contains a variable number 2 to 32 of Informational characters that define the program title. Each character is in the range of 20 h to 7 Fh. The variable size of this packet allows for efficient transmission of titles of any length.

A complete definition of a XDS packets may be found in 21 Electronics Industries Association EIA 608 drafts Oct. 12 1992 and Jun. 17 1993 the subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully stated herein. An exemplary device suitable for extraction of captions and XDS packets from a television signal is an ATI TV ISA television tuner sold by ATI technologies Inc. of Markham Ontario Canada. The device includes software for monitoring television signals and extracting captioning to create a program transcription.

The caption and program information extractor extracts the captioning information from the broadcast media signal along with program information from the concurrently transmitted XDS packets and stores the captioning information and program information in a content database serviced by a content database server . The content database server is coupled to the previously described content server .

A moderator server receives captioning information from the content server and transmits the captions to a moderator client over communications link and communications link . A moderator uses the moderator client to edit the captioning information and adds moderator commentary to the edited captioning information thus creating moderated programming content using the captioning information as source material. The moderator client transmits the edited captioning information and moderator commentary to the moderator server where the moderator server creates interactive programming for transmission to a plurality of viewer clients as exemplified by viewer client via a communications network such as the Internet and communications link . A plurality of viewers as exemplified by viewer view and interact with the interactive programming using a viewer client.

In one embodiment of a caption and program data extractor in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention other components of the broadcast media signal are extracted and stored in the content database. For example the caption and program data extractor may extract video frames from the broadcast media signal on either a regular or random interval and store the captured frames along with the captioning information and program information. As another example the caption and program data extractor may extract portions of an audio component and store the portions in the content database. These additional components of the broadcast media signal are associated with the captioning and programming information in the content database so that the additional components may be recalled and used to augment the captioning information when generating interactive programming.

In one system for extracting closed captioning from a broadcast signal in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the extracted captions are compressed before they are stored. As the captions are textual information many compression tools may be used. In one system the compression tool used is the Lempel Ziv Oberhumer LZO compression tool authored by Markus Franz Xaver Johannes Oberhumer. Source code for the compression tool is available at http www.oberhumer.com opensource lzo . LZO is a lossless block compression technique with decompression requiring no memory resources. As the decompression step does not require any memory resources decompression may be performed on hosts with limited memory such as set top boxes used with televisions as displays.

In one interactive programming system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the captioning information is compressed as previously described. In addition the interactive programming for both commentator and the viewer is compressed before transmission.

Referring again to in one interactive programming system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention broadcast interactive programming is encoded for broadcast transmission in the VBI of a television signal. Textual components of an interactive program are generated as previously described and placed into a television VBI signal as captioning information. The television signal may include a video signal for a television program that the commentator and the viewers want to discuss. The television signal including the interactive programming is transmitted to the viewers and the viewers television as exemplified by broadcast interactive programming receiver decodes and displays the textual components of the interactive programming. Viewers interact with the interactive programming using a back channel such as through a communications network or a previously described telephony link.

Links to other resources are encoded in the television signal in the form of Uniform Resource Locators URLs which are string representations of locations for use in identifying abstract or physical resources on the Internet. URLs can be transmitted in the T 2 service encoded in line 21 of the VBI and may be used by receiving devices to permit the linking of television programs with related content on the Internet so that the content from these Internet services may be combined mixed or shared by the receiving device.

The URL is enclosed in angle brackets followed by zero or more pairs of attributes and values in square brackets which are then followed by a checksum in square brackets. Four attributes are defined in this standard type name expires and script . The type attribute indicates what sort of content the URL is associated with for example content related to the current television program or with the broadcast network . The type can be any one of the values in table 4 

The name attribute indicates a human readable title for the resource and can be any string of characters between 20 h and 7 Eh except square brackets 5 Bh and 5 Dh and angle brackets 3 Ch and 3 Eh . The expires attribute enables an author to specify the last date the URL is valid after which the URL should be ignored by the receiving device. The script attribute enables the triggering of specific actions within the content referenced by the URL. The value specifies a script fragment that is to be sent to the page and executed the scripting language is compatible with ECMA 262 for example JavaScript or JScript . The script is executed when the content referenced by the URL is displayed on the receiving device. If that content is currently being displayed the script fragment is immediately executed. The context for the script is the root document corresponding to the URL specified.

The interactive program generator receives the moderator content and the audience content and uses the content to generate enhanced interactive programming. The interactive programming includes viewer interactive programming and that is transmitted to the viewer clients for display and use of the viewers. The interactive programming further includes moderator interactive programming transmitted to the moderator for viewing and use by the moderator. The cycle of receiving participant moderator and edited participant comments and using the comments to generate interactive programming for transmission to the moderator and viewer is repeated indefinitely to create a continuous interactive program.

In an interactive program creation system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention content from a previously described content server is received by the interactive program generator and the content is included in the generated interactive programming. In an interactive program creation system in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a virtual guest client transmits virtual guest comments to the virtual stage content engine for inclusion in the virtual stage content generated by the virtual content engine.

In an interactive program creation system in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention the moderator participant and guest interactive messages are chat messages and the virtual stage and audience content engines are chat engines. The text based output from the chat engines is used by the interactive program generator generate interactive programming including electronic documents such as transcripts composed in a document markup language such as HTML or XML.

In one embodiment of a moderator server in accordance with the present invention the moderator server is operated in an application service provider ASP mode. In this mode the moderator server is used to create a private label interactive program creation system. In this mode the moderator server provides services that an operator can embed into another system such that a viewer perceives the interactive program creation system as owned by individual operators. In some instances an indicia of source such as a powered by notice is included in the interactive program creation system.

The moderator s interface is broken up into several operational sections. A stage interaction section displays the moderator s direct interaction with a virtual guest on a virtual stage. The stage interaction section includes a plurality of fields for display of virtual guests previous questions as exemplified by previous question field . For each answered virtual guest question a moderator response field as exemplified by moderator response field displays the moderator s response to the virtual guest s previous question. The stage interaction section further includes a current question field for display of a virtual guest s current question. A moderator uses a moderator text entry section to enter responses to the current virtual guest question.

An audience interaction section displays audience comments. The audience interaction comments are comments made by participants to other participants in the audience.

A moderator uses a status section to monitor the progress of the interactive program. The moderator invites audience members to the virtual stage to be virtual guests using an invite to stage selector . The moderator can select a viewer to invite onto the virtual stage by using a pull down menu of viewer names and selecting a viewer to invite. Once a viewer is invited to the virtual stage the viewer s interactive messages are displayed in the stage interaction section and not in the audience interaction section. The moderator can also exclude a participant by selecting a participant from a kick user out pull down menu . Once excluded the moderator server removes the excluded participant s comment signals from the plurality of participant comment signals edited by the moderator and used by the moderator server to generate the interactive program. In this way the moderator exercises direct control over the participants participating in the interactive program.

In another interactive program creation system the participant s exchange video clips and files directly with each other in a peer to peer relationship. In this mode the moderator server is not directly involved in the message exchanges occurring between audience members interacting with each other.

The status section further includes an audience approval system indicator for indicating to the moderator how the audience feels about the progress of the show. Viewer responses are aggregated in a to be described process and displayed to the moderator as a colored indicator and as a numerical value. A moderator uses the audience member counter field and pull down menu to determine the number and identification of the viewers receiving the transmitted interactive program. The status section further includes an elapsed time field for display of the elapsed time of the interactive program.

An audience question section displays an audience question that the moderator may answer by selecting an answer question button or delete by selecting a delete question button . The moderator can get a new audience question by selecting the update button .

A polls section includes a poll question display field for display of a current poll question and a poll results display field for display of viewers responses to the poll. The moderator selects a new poll button to enter a new poll question whenever the moderator feels that a new poll should be created.

If no excluded words are found in the participant question the filter process determines the relevance of the participant question by matching the moderator s keywords to the words in the participant question. If it is determined that the relevance of the participant question exceeds the threshold relevance value then the participant question is added to a participant question queue .

In an embodiment of a filtering process in accordance with the present invention keywords and excluded words are matched to the participant question using approximate string matching techniques in order to determine the relevance value of a participant question including misspelled keywords or excluded words.

A poll section displays a poll question asked by the moderator of the viewers. The poll section includes a plurality of response buttons exemplified by response buttons and selectable by the viewer to indicate the viewer s response to the poll. The viewer selects an answer to the poll question by selecting one of the response buttons and then selects the Vote button to register the viewer s poll answer with the moderator server. The viewer interface further includes sections for banner advertising and for placement of a trademark or service mark to identify the operator of the moderator server. By allowing banner adds the moderator server allows a moderator to collect revenue from t commerce interactions with the moderator s hosted interactive program.

In another embodiment of an interactive program creation system in accordance with the present invention a poll is created using a plurality of participant questions for selection by participants. The participant question from the plurality of participant questions receiving the most participant selections is selected for submission to the moderator.

Referring again to a current audience approval system rating field is provided for the display of viewers rating of an interactive program. Referring now to a diagram depicting a process for receiving viewer reactions to the interactive program and calculating an audience approval system rating for an interactive program in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is shown. A moderator generates an interactive program and transmits the interactive program to an audience as previously described. The audience includes a plurality of viewers as exemplified by viewers and . Each viewer may have a different opinion of the quality of the interactive program therefore each viewer is provided with an individual audience approval system button as exemplified by audience approval system buttons and . Each viewer selects an audience approval system rating button corresponding to the viewer s subjective rating of the interactive program. The selection of an audience approval system button transmits a corresponding audience approval system signal to the moderator server not shown thus creating a plurality of audience approval system signals for evaluation by the moderator server. The moderator server receives the plurality of audience approval system signals and uses them to generate a single audience approval system rating signal and transmits the audience approval system rating signal for display on the moderator s interface not shown .

In an audience approval system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention an audience approval system signal can take on three states and with each state representing a viewer s subjective opinion of the interactive program. In this embodiment the three states are mapped to the corresponding numeric values of 100 50 and 0 with 100 representing a viewer s complete satisfaction with the interactive program 50 representing the viewer s partial satisfaction with the interactive program and 0 representing the viewer s complete dissatisfaction with the interactive program. Each of the plurality of audience approval system signals are mapped to one of these numeric values. These numeric values are used to generate an arithmetic mean representing the audience approval system rating of the interactive program. In the illustrated example of viewer rates the interactive program at 100 viewer rates the interactive program at 50 and viewer rates the interactive program at 100 . These values are used by the moderator server to generate an arithmetic mean of the plurality of mapped viewers audience approval system signals. The arithmetic mean is presented to the moderator as the audience approval system rating of the moderator s interactive program. In one audience approval system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the audience approval system rating is mapped to a color with the numeric value of 100 being represented in green the numeric value of 50 being represented in yellow and the numeric value of 0 being represented in red.

The moderator also accesses the interactive program creation system to host an interactive program. While the moderator is hosting an interactive program the system provides facilities for audience management allowing the moderator to restrict access to an interactive program. As previously described the system provides facilities for the moderator to block interactive messages from viewers in the audience. The system also provides a facility for posting polls during the interactive program. This allows a moderator to pose questions to the audience in order to receive and aggregate viewers opinions about various subjects during an interactive program as previously described. The system further includes facilities for answering questions presented by viewers to the moderator. As previously described a moderator can receive questions from viewers and determine whether or not to answer them. Additionally the system provides an invitation facility for inviting viewers to participate in the interactive program as a virtual guest as previously described.

The moderator may also access the interactive program creation system to perform administrative tasks associated with moderating a periodically presented interactive program. The interactive program creation system provides facilities for sending scheduling reminders to viewers about upcoming interactive programs. Such scheduling reminders may be transmitted to a viewer by email to a viewer s personal pager to a viewer s wireless phone or to a viewer s personal digital assistant. The interactive program creation system also includes facilities for a moderator to review metrics collected by the system on a moderator s interactive program.

The viewer may also access the interactive program creation system to view and become part of an interactive program. The interactive program creation system includes facilities allowing a viewer to interact with embedded advertising. The interactive program creation system also includes facilities allowing a moderator to poll viewers during an interactive program as previously described. The interactive program creation system also includes facilities allowing a viewer to ask questions of the moderator and virtual guests as previously described. The interactive program creation system also includes facilities allowing a viewer to rate an interactive program as previously described.

The viewer may also access the interactive program creation system to personalize the viewer s experience with the interactive program creation system. The interactive program creation system includes facilities for submitting suggestions by the interactive program creation system of interactive programs the viewer may be interested in based on viewer preferences as included in a viewer profile and previously viewed interactive programs. The interactive program creation system further includes facilities for creation of a list of favorite interactive programs used by moderators to send scheduling reminders to the viewer about upcoming interactive programs as previously described. The interactive program creation system also includes facilities allowing a viewer to create and edit a viewer profile including topics of interest to the viewer. In one embodiment of an interactive program creation system in accordance with the present invention viewer profiles are stored in data files on the viewer client. In another embodiment of an interactive program creation system in accordance with the present invention viewer profiles are stored on a central server and downloaded as XML documents to the viewer client as needed.

A user selects a log in button to access the interactive program creation system as a viewer or selects a moderator log in button to access the interactive program creation system as a moderator. The interactive program creation system log in interface further includes an upcoming program guide section for display of interactive programs that are scheduled to be produced by their moderators in the next 24 hours. The listings in the upcoming program guide section include a previously described mic viewer rating and a category link to a viewer interface where a viewer can find more interactive programs similar to the listed interactive program.

Referring again to if the user logs in as a viewer the viewer is directed to a viewer home page . From the viewer home page the viewer may access a registration process . Once registered the viewer can access an edit profile process .

The edit profile viewer interface further includes personal information entry fields such as a first name entry field and a last name entry field . Alternatively the viewer may enter an anonymous viewer name rather than the viewer s real name in order to hide the viewer s identity. In operation a viewer enters their personal information and selects the Submit and Continue button to store the viewer s personal information in the viewer s database. The personal information is used by the interactive program creation system to personalize the viewer s experience while using the interactive program creation system.

The edit profile viewer interface further includes a viewer profile entry field . In operation the viewer enters the viewer s interests into the viewer profile entry field. The entered viewer profile is stored in the viewer database for use by the interactive program creation system to make suggestions of interactive programs that the viewer may want to participate in. To make suggestions the viewer profile is queried and key terms are identified. For example the illustrated viewer profile includes the key terms sports movies and music . The interactive program creation system compares these key terms to key terms included in the moderator database by moderators who have created interactive program profiles. If a match is found the interactive program creation system suggests the matching interactive program to the viewer.

In an embodiment of an interactive program creation system in accordance with the present invention interactive programs are suggested to the viewer in a pay for placement mode. For example if a plurality of interactive programs match the viewer s profile the first interactive program suggested to the viewer is the interactive program whose moderator has paid the interactive program creation system s operator the most for being placed first.

The edit profile viewer interface further includes a viewer email address entry field viewer city viewer state viewer zipcode and viewer country entry fields. In operation the viewer enters their email and address location and selects the Submit and Continue button to store the viewer address information in the viewer database. Moderators using the interactive program creation system can use the viewer address information to notify a viewer when the moderator s interactive program is to be broadcast. Additionally the viewer may optionally select an Include in Directory button in order to exclude the viewer s address information from view by the moderators.

The edit profile viewer interface further includes an interactive program search entry field . A viewer uses the search entry field to enter a search term used to search the moderator database for interactive programs with terms matching the search term. The edit profile viewer interface further includes a category or hub selection field . A viewer may select an individual category such as News to be taken to a hub process for accessing interactive programs related to the selected category.

The edit profile viewer interface further includes an advertising section for display of click through style banner ads. A user selects one of the banner ads to be transferred to an advertiser s or retailer s Web site. The edit profile viewer interface further includes a feature section for display of links to featured hubs. By selecting a featured hub link a viewer can quickly access a hub process for accessing interactive programs related to the selected feature category.

Referring again to a viewer may access an interactive program electronic program guide process . A viewer uses the program guide process to add upcoming interactive programs to a viewer s interactive program list that is stored in the viewer database .

The program guide viewer interface further includes an interactive program rating display. The interactive program rating is a viewer rating determined from viewer responses to the interactive program. In a program guide in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the viewer rating is expressed in terms of mics short for microphone . The greater the number of mics the higher the viewer rating of the interactive program. For example the maximum number of mics an interactive program may receive is five mics for a popular program. A minimally popular interactive program may only receive only one mic.

The program guide viewer interface further includes a link to an interactive program suggestion process. As previously described the interactive program creation system uses a viewer s profile stored in the viewer database and interactive program descriptions stored in the moderator database to suggest interactive programs that the viewer may be interested in.

In another program guide viewer interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the viewer may also access archived programs in an on demand mode. In an on demand mode the program guide includes previously broadcast and archived interactive programs.

Referring again to a viewer may access the previously described search facilities of the interactive program creation system from the program guide. Additionally the program guide provides a link to an immediate program guide for listing interactive programs that are scheduled to be broadcast within the next day. A viewer may also access a browsing facility . Using the browsing facility a viewer can view a hierarchal list of interactive programs from which the viewer can select an interactive program to participate in.

The viewer may access a specific interactive program s home page in a variety of ways such as selecting a link to an interactive program from the previously described search facility immediate program guide browsing facility and suggestion facility . Additionally included in a moderator database is a schedule of upcoming interactive program broadcasts. The schedule of upcoming interactive program broadcasts may be accessed by the viewer using an upcoming interactive program facility . From an interactive program s home page a viewer may join a previously described actual interactive program . Each interactive program is hosted by a previously described moderator server .

The interactive program home viewer interface further includes a schedule section where the schedules of upcoming transmissions of the interactive program are listed. An upcoming listing includes a reminder button . In operation a viewer selects the reminder button for a listing and an entry is made by the interactive program creation system to the previously described viewer profile. The entry is used to transmit notifications to the viewer when the interactive program is about to be transmitted.

The interactive program home viewer interface further includes a preference addition button that the viewer selects to have the interactive program added to the previously described viewer s list of interactive program preferences. A contact button is provided for use by a viewer in sending an email message to a moderator. A search button is provided for the viewer to search for additional interactive programs that are related thematically to the interactive program represented in the interactive program home viewer interface.

The interactive program creation system further includes a facility for retrieving archived previously broadcast interactive programs for viewing. A viewer uses the archive facility to view transcripts and enhanced content of interactive programs that the viewer may have missed or wants to view again. In one facility for retrieving archived interactive programs for viewing in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the archived interactive programs can be viewed on an on demand or pay for view basis.

In another facility for retrieving interactive programs for viewing in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the archived interactive programs may be accessed for presentation in conjunction with other content such as in a syndication mode. For example an archived interactive program whose theme was discussion about a particular product can be linked to an advertisement for that product on a separate Website. As another example an interactive program with a topical theme may be syndicated by a live news Website.

Referring again to the interactive program creation system further includes facilities for a moderator to create an interactive program. A moderator uses the facility to create an interactive program by entering information about the interactive program and the information is stored in the moderator database .

The interactive program creation moderator interface further includes a link to a broadcast schedule editing facility . A moderator uses this link to access a more detailed interactive program scheduling entry facility. The interactive program creation moderator interface further includes a link to an add co hosts facility . A moderator uses this link to access a facility for adding a co host or additional but subordinate moderator such as a side kick a panel of experts or a special guest to the interactive program.

The interactive program creation moderator interface further includes a link to a theme facility . A moderator uses this link to access a facility for assigning the interactive program to a thematic category for easier classification of interactive programs for browsing by a viewer.

The interactive program creation moderator interface further includes a link to a send reminders facility . A moderator uses this link to access a facility for transmitting reminders to viewers. The interactive program creation system uses the previously described viewer s lists of interactive programs to send notifications to each of the viewers who have added the moderator s interactive program to their list of interactive programs. Reminders may be sent by various communication links such as email voice mail and pager as agreed to by the viewer.

In one viewer notification process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a viewer notification is transmitted as an email message to the viewer. The viewer may retrieve the email message by any suitable device or client such as a personal digital assistant a personal computer etc. In another viewer notification process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the viewer notification is in the form of an audio reminder transmitted to a viewer s voice mail system or directly to a viewer s telephone. In another viewer notification process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the viewer notification is in the form of an instant message that is transmitted to a viewer if the viewer is currently on a system that is accessible to the moderator server.

Referring again to the interactive program creation moderator interface further includes a link to a traffic report facility . A moderator uses this link to access a facility for generating reports describing the user interactions with an interactive program broadcast by the moderator.

The reporting tool moderator interface further includes entry fields for selection of types and formats of viewer interaction reports. Each of these sections is typified by a selection button and a format selection pull down menu . A moderator selects a selection button to include the specific type of report in a viewer interaction report and uses the format pull down menu to select the format of the specific report. The types of reports the moderator can include in a viewer interaction report include a peak usage report . A peak usage report is a report indicating the peak usage of the interactive program by the viewers.

A moderator can select a total traffic report . A total traffic report is a report depicting the total number of viewers and viewer interactions with the interactive program over the broadcast time of the interactive program.

A moderator can select a breakdown by user report . A breakdown by user report is reported depicting the interactions of single viewers.

A moderator can select a breakdown by demographic report . A breakdown by demographic report is a report depicting viewer interactions by viewers fitting certain demographic descriptions.

A moderator can select a breakdown by geography report . A breakdown by geography report is a report depicting where viewers participating in an interactive program are physically located.

A moderator can select a visitor path report . A visitor path report is a report depicting where viewers are located on a network.

A moderator can select a referral report . A referral report is a report depicting from which locations viewers have been referred from such as an external Web site etc.

A moderator can select a polling data report . A polling data report is a report depicting the results of polls taken by a moderator during an interactive program.

A moderator can select a clicks by a viewer report . A clicks by a viewer report is a report depicting how many selections viewers make during an interactive program.

A moderator can select a feature utilization report . A feature utilization report is a report depicting how many different features viewers are using during an interactive program.

A moderator can select a chat or interactive messaging report . A chat or interactive messaging report is a report depicting how many interactive messages are being sent between the audience members during an interactive program.

Graph is a graph of click through activity versus time for an interactive program. During an interactive program individual instances of viewers selecting advertising banners are recorded in the previously described moderator database associated with the time of the selection of the advertising banner. An interactive program creation system can use the recorded advertising selection events and their associated times to generate the click through activity versus time graph.

Graph is a geographically based graph depicting the geographic location of viewers participating in an interactive program. The viewers participating in an interactive program are recorded in the previously described moderator database. Each recorded viewer s geographic location can be determined from the previously described viewer s profile or by mapping the viewer s IP address to a specific geographic location. An interactive program creation system can use the recorded viewer identifications and viewer geographic locations to generate a graphic illustrating the geographic locations of the viewers.

The viewer interactivity reports are used by a moderator to determine the effectiveness of an interactive program. For example the moderator can use the demographic charts to determine if the interactive program is reaching an audience with the demographic profile desired by the moderator. As a further example the moderator can determine the effectiveness of various portions of an interactive program by analyzing participant interaction with the interactive program over time. Spikes in interactive message transmissions from the participants may indicate portions of the interactive program that the participants find most engaging.

An advertising geographical graphic indicates the geographic viewer locations of viewers participating with the interactive program. As the viewers participate in the interactive programs the viewers interactions with links and advertising banners included in the interactive program are recorded in the moderator database as previously described. Additionally a viewer identification for each viewer interaction is stored in the moderator database. Each viewer s geographic location can be determined from the previously described viewer s profile or by mapping the viewer s IP address to a specific geographic location. An interactive program creation system can use the recorded viewer interactions and viewer identifications to generate a graphic illustrating the geographic locations of advertising revenue generation. An interactive program creation system can use viewer interaction data viewer identification data and viewer profile data to generate a revenue by age graphic or a revenue by demographic description graphic .

A category is associated with a plurality of polls with each poll being associated with a plurality of poll responses . A viewer profile is associated with a plurality of poll responses. In operation viewers respond to a poll associated with a specific category and the viewers responses are recorded in the moderator database for future analysis.

A category is associated with a plurality of interactive programs and each interactive program is associated with a plurality of interactive program broadcasts or instances . Each interactive program broadcast is associated with a plurality of reminders with each reminder being associated with a single user profile. In operation a moderator determines an interactive programming schedule of interactive program broadcasts and generates reminders that are transmitted to viewers who have expressed an interest in being reminded of the interactive program s broadcasts.

A category is associated with a plurality of message boards with each message board being associated with a plurality of message board threads . Each message board thread is associated with a plurality of message board messages with each message board message being associated with a single viewer profile. A viewer profile may be associated with a plurality of message board messages. In operation viewers leave messages grouped into message board threads on message boards maintained by moderators. The messages may be for the moderators or may be for other viewers.

Keywords are stored in the moderator database so that viewers can search for categories and links associated with the categories. Additionally all user inputs can be indexed and tagged to become interactive triggers that are linked to interactive programs served by the moderator server. Category keywords are associated with a plurality of categories. In operation a viewer enters a category keyword into a previously described search facility and a set of categories for use by the viewer are generated that are associated with the category keyword. Link keywords associated with links to off site resources are also stored in the moderator database. In operation a viewer enters a link keyword in the previously described search facility and a set of links associated with the link keyword is generated for use by the viewer.

Viewer profiles are associated with a plurality of viewer histories . In operation a viewer history is recorded of a viewer s interactions when accessing an interactive program creation system while not actually participating in an interactive program.

In an interactive program creation system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the broadcast program is synchronized to the interactive program using synchronization signals included in the interactive program signals. In this way an interactive program may be synchronized with an external broadcast.

A current broadcast content section includes a display of broadcast content that is currently being broadcast on a selected broadcast channel. Information about the broadcast content is shown in a broadcast content information section formatted as a televised programming guide. The broadcast information includes a broadcast channel a title a broadcast time and a description if available of the broadcast content. If a microphone indicator is shown next to a listing of a scheduled broadcast this indicates that the scheduled broadcast is available as an interactive program including broadcast content as previously described. In operation a viewer can select an interactive program that is currently being broadcast and view the broadcast content in the current broadcast content section. A viewer selects a switch to full screen button to participate in a currently broadcast interactive program corresponding to the currently broadcast content displayed in the current broadcast content section.

The reduced screen viewer interface further includes interactive program rating buttons for viewer rating of an interactive program as previously described. In operation a viewer selects one of the interactive program rating buttons to indicate the viewer s satisfaction with the interactive program. Viewer ratings from a plurality of viewers are aggregated together and displayed to the moderator as previously described.

A moderator uses a reduced screen viewer interface to create a contextual commerce application using an interactive program. The moderator uses the interactive program to build a community from an audience attracted to the subject matter of the interactive program such as a product line or a series of books. The moderator then links the reduced screen viewer interface to a location where a viewer can make a purchase of a product or item related to the subject matter of an interactive program. In addition archived interactive programs can be accessed in an on demand mode to be linked to an e commerce Website in order to have a continually available sales tool such as an infomercial or testimonial for a product or item.

The same interactive program can be transmitted over a conventional interactive television iTV network as well. The moderator server transmits the interactive program to an iTV server and the iTV server generates iTV content from the interactive program. The iTV content is transmitted via communications network to an iTV signal processor . The iTV signal processor receives the iTV content and uses the iTV content to generate iTV signals for transmission to an iTV enabled television for viewing by a viewer. In this mode triggers are generated from the interactive program signals and the viewer uses the triggers to participate in the interactive program such as through the use of tags associated with the triggers included in the iTV signals Vertical Blanking Interval VBI and the viewer s comments are transmitted via a back channel to the moderator server. In this way a viewer can use either an iTV enabled television or a viewer client to participate in an interactive program as previously described.

In operation the locally hosted moderator server is used by a moderator to create an interactive program for transmission to the viewer clients and moderator client as previously described. In this embodiment viewer information is stored in the viewer database moderator information is stored in the moderator database and the moderator server and the viewer clients access the information via the interactive program server. The local host may be any type of programmable device capable of bidirectional communication with other devices over a communications network. For example the local host can be a game console or a personal computer or a set top box etc.

The disk storage controller is operatively coupled to a disk storage device . Computer program instructions implementing a previously described moderator server are stored on the disk storage device until the microprocessor retrieves the computer program instructions and stores them in the main memory. The microprocessor then executes the computer program instructions stored in the main memory to implement the moderator server.

Although this invention has been described in certain specific embodiments many additional modifications and variations would be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that this invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described. Thus the present embodiments of the invention should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention to be determined by any claims supportable by this application and the claims equivalents.

