---

title: Catalyst composition for the hydro-treatment of alkanes and methods of use thereof
abstract: In one embodiment, a catalyst composition comprises from about 5 weight percent to about 70 weight percent of silica-alumina; from about 30 weight percent to about 90 weight percent alumina; and from about 0.01 weight percent to about 2.0 weight percent of a group VIII metal. In another embodiment, a method for processing hydrocarbons comprises hydro-treating the hydrocarbons in the presence of a catalyst composition, wherein the catalyst comprises from about 5 weight percent to about 70 weight percent silica-alumina; from about 30 weight percent to about 90 weight percent alumina; and from about 0.01 weight percent to about 2.0 weight percent of a group VIII metal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08202815&OS=08202815&RS=08202815
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08202815
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081226
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W911NF 07 C 0045 awarded by the United States Army REDCOM. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention includes embodiments that relate to a catalyst. More particularly the invention includes embodiments that relate to a catalyst composition for the conversion of hydrocarbons to middle distillate fuels.

Increasing crude oil prices and increased environmental concerns have resulted in a growing interest in renewable energy sources. As demonstrated by the current direction of research renewable resources like solar power and wind energy are used for the production of electricity whereas the fuels derived from biomass are predominantly used as transportation fuels.

One method of converting biomass sources to fuels involves producing oils from oilseeds and other feedstocks. These methods typically involve conversion to a diesel like fuel which is conventionally made by trans esterification of oil derived from oilseeds vegetable oils and animal fats. Trans esterification involves a reaction with alcohol and produces a mixture of esters of fatty acids. These fatty acid esters are typically called biodiesel . Biodiesel is better suited for fuel applications than pure oils and fats due to more advantageous characteristics such as cold flow properties combustion properties and the like. However the use of the fatty acid ester fuels can result in operating problems especially at low temperatures. Hence the use of biodiesel in colder regions may be somewhat limited.

Current methods of producing diesel like fuel from vegetable oil sources include direct hydro treating of the bio oils. This results in the breakdown of the triglycerides which are primary constituents of the bio oils. The reaction with hydrogen also results in saturation of double bonds thus producing linear alkane fuel mixtures which have better operating ranges. In order to effectively produce fuels other than diesel a catalyst is needed which is selective for producing middle distillate fuels. Accordingly it is desirable to have a catalyst that is active for hydro isomerization and hydrocracking and that selectively converts alkanes into middle distillate fuels.

The invention includes embodiments that relate to a catalyst composition. The invention also includes embodiments that relate to a method of processing hydrocarbons in the presence of the catalyst composition. The catalyst composition may selectively convert alkanes to a mixture of cycloalkanes paraffins and iso paraffins. This mixture can be used as various fuels such as diesel fuel kerosene and jet fuel which are often referred to as middle distillate fuels.

As used herein without further qualifiers a catalyst is a substance that can increase the rate of a chemical reaction without being consumed in the reaction. A zeolite is a crystalline metal oxide material that comprises a micro porous structure. Silica alumina is an amorphous metal oxide that comprises a random micro porous structure. Approximating language as used herein throughout the specification and claims may be applied to modify any quantitative representation that could permissibly vary without resulting in a change in the basic function to which it is related. Accordingly a value modified by a term such as about or approximately is not to be limited to the precise value specified. In some instances the approximating language may correspond to the precision of an instrument for measuring the value.

In one embodiment the catalyst composition comprises a zeolite. The zeolite may be naturally occurring or synthetic. Examples of suitable zeolites are zeolite Y zeolite beta ferrierite mordenite zeolite ZSM 5 zeolite ZSM 22 23 or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing zeolites. Zeolite ZSM 5 and Zeolite ZSM 22 23 are commercially available from Zeolyst International Valley Forge Pa. . An exemplary zeolite is zeolite beta.

Examples of suitable commercially available zeolites include those marketed under the following trademarks CBV100 CBV300 CBV400 CBV500 CBV600 CBV712 CBV720 CBV760 CBV780 CBV901 CP814E CP814C CP811C 300 CP914 CP914C CBV2314 CBV3024E CBV5524G CBV8014 CBV28014 CBV10A CBV21A CBV90A. The foregoing zeolites are available from Zeolyst International and may be used individually or in a combination comprising two or more of the zeolites.

In one embodiment the zeolite has a silicon to aluminum ratio in a range between about 1 and about 50. In one embodiment the zeolite has a silicon to aluminum ratio in a range between about 50 and about 100. In one embodiment the zeolite has a silicon to aluminum ratio in a range between about 100 and about 200. In another embodiment the zeolite has a silicon to aluminum ratio in a range between about 200 and about 300. In an exemplary embodiment the zeolite has a silicon to aluminum ratio in a range between about 40 and about 60.

The zeolite particles may have an average particle size of less than about 50 micrometers. In one embodiment the zeolite particles have an average particle size of about 50 micrometers to about 400 micrometers. In another embodiment the zeolite particles have an average particle size of about 400 micrometers to about 800 micrometers. In another embodiment the zeolite particles have an average particle size of about 800 micrometers to about 1600 micrometers.

The zeolite particles may have a surface area of about 200 m gm to about 300 m gm. In one embodiment the zeolite particles have a surface area of about 300 m gm to about 400 m gm. In another embodiment the zeolite particles have a surface area of about 400 m gm to about 500 m gm. In yet another embodiment the zeolite particles have a surface area of about 500 m gm to about 600 m gm.

Desirably the zeolite is present in an amount of about 5 to about 70 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In one embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 5 to about 20 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In one embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 20 to about 30 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 30 to about 40 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 40 to about 50 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 50 to about 60 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In yet another embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 60 to about 70 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In a preferred embodiment the zeolite is present in an amount of about 10 to about 30 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition

As noted above the catalyst composition comprises alumina AlO binder. In one embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 30 to about 40 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In one embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 40 to about 50 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 50 to about 60 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 60 to about 70 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 70 to about 80 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In yet another embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 80 to about 90 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In an exemplary embodiment the alumina is present in an amount of about 70 to about 90 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition.

The catalyst composition also comprises at least one group VIII metal. Examples of suitable group VIII metals are iron cobalt nickel ruthenium rhodium palladium platinum osmium iridium or a combination comprising at least two of the foregoing metals. In a preferred embodiment the group VIII metal is platinum.

The group VIII metal may be present in the catalyst composition in an amount of about 0.01 to about 0.10 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the group VIII metal is present in an amount of about 0.10 to about 0.50 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the group VIII metal is present in an amount of about 0.50 to about 1.0 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In yet another embodiment the group VIII metal is present in an amount of about 1.0 to about 2.0 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In an exemplary embodiment the group VIII metal is present in an amount of about 0.50 to about 1.00 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition.

The catalyst composition further comprises silica alumina SiAl . The average silica alumina particle size may be from about 0.1 nanometer to about 100 nanometers. In one embodiment the average silica alumina particle size is from about 100 nanometers to about 200 nanometers. In another embodiment the average silica alumina particle size is from about 200 nanometers to about 300 nanometers. In another embodiment the average silica alumina particle size is from about 300 nanometers to about 400 nanometers. In yet another embodiment the average silica alumina particle size is from about 400 nanometers to about 500 nanometers.

The catalyst composition may comprise silica alumina in an amount of about 5 to about 20 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In one embodiment the silica alumina is present in an amount of about 20 to about 30 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the silica alumina is present in an amount of about 30 to about 40 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the silica alumina is present in an amount of about 40 to about 50 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In another embodiment the silica alumina is present in an amount of about 50 to about 60 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In yet another embodiment the silica alumina is present in an amount of about 60 to about 70 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition. In an exemplary embodiment the silica alumina is present in an amount of about 10 to about 30 weight percent based upon the total weight of the catalyst composition.

The catalyst composition disclosed herein is effective at converting hydrocarbons to middle distillate fuels. In a preferred embodiment Cto Calkanes and more preferably Cto Calkanes are converted to middle distillate fuels by the catalyst composition. In one embodiment the catalyst composition converts alkanes such as heavy n paraffins to a mixture of cycloalkanes paraffins and iso paraffins.

The conversion of the hydrocarbons to middle distillate fuels may be accomplished by hydro treating the hydrocarbons in the presence of the catalyst composition. As used herein hydro treating refers to hydro cracking or hydro isomerization. Hydro isomerization typically involves the reaction of linear alkanes with hydrogen over catalysts to produce branched compounds. Branched isomers of paraffins have higher octane numbers than the corresponding normal straight alkanes and hence are a desirable component of the fuel. Other properties such as flash point freezing point and the like are maintained in specified ranges for each variety. Isomerization is also useful for improving the cloud point of the fuel resulting in improved usability of the fuel at low temperatures.

Typical temperatures maintained during hydro treating are between about 200 degrees Celsius and about 450 degrees Celsius. A typical pressure range for the hydro treating operation is between about 10 bar and about 80 bar. In some embodiments a pressure range of about 40 to about 60 bar and a temperature range of about 275 degrees Celsius to about 350 degrees Celsius may be more preferred. Typically the reaction involves rearrangement of the alkyl groups. In general terms the hydro isomerization may be represented as 

The prefix i represents the isomers with a branched molecular structure. Thus compounds represented by formulae iCand iCrepresent isomers with different carbon chain lengths. Thus hydro isomerization changes the carbon number distribution in the reactant compounds to the distribution in the product compounds. In some instances hydro isomerization may also include hydrocracking reactions. The hydro isomerization usually results in the production of branched alkanes paraffins and iso paraffins of various chain lengths and cyclic compounds such as cycloalkanes. The composition of product compounds may vary depending upon the type of fatty acids involved in the glycerides or bio oil feedstock as well as process conditions. For a soybean seed feedstock hydro isomerization can produce a mixture of about 5 LPG butane about 5 naphtha and gasoline about 50 jet fuel and about 40 diesel fuel. However the product composition varies widely based on the operating conditions and specific catalysts used.

The following examples illustrate methods and embodiments in accordance with the invention and as such should not be construed as imposing limitations upon the claims.

Examples 1 3 illustrate the distribution of product compounds obtained when hydro treated soy oil is hydro isomerized hydocracked over three different catalyst compositions. Hydrotreated soy oil is a roughly 50 50 mixture of n heptadecane and n octadecane. The resulting figures only display products comprising Cto Cproduct compounds. The relative ratio of non isomerized to isomerized product is shown.

Referring to a catalyst comprising 30 weight percent zeolite beta 69.5 weight percent alumina binder and 0.50 weight percent platinum is used in the hydro isomerization of a soy oil feedstock. The isomerization of the feedstock occurs preferentially as indicated by the low levels of Cto Cisomerized product.

A catalyst comprising 25 weight percent zeolite beta 25 weight percent silica alumina support 49.5 weight percent alumina binder and 0.50 weight percent platinum is used in the hydro isomerization of the soy oil feedstock. As displayed in use of the mixed catalyst results in a higher ratio of isomerized product to non isomerized product relative to Examples 1 and 2 which provides a better freezing point flash point and combustion characteristic for the resulting middle distillate fuel.

All ranges disclosed herein are inclusive of the endpoints and the endpoints are combinable with each other. The terms first second and the like as used herein do not denote any order quantity or importance but rather are used to distinguish one element from another. The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or contradicted by context.

While the invention has been described in detail in connection with a number of embodiments the invention is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations alterations substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described but which are commensurate with the scope of the invention. Additionally while various embodiments of the invention have been described it is to be understood that aspects of the invention may include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.

