---

title: System for scheduling and transmitting messages
abstract: A system for scheduling and transmitting messages is disclosed. The system stores a plurality of audio files in an audio database, generates a schedule of queued messages via the plurality of audio files, transmits the queued messages based on the schedule, and reconfigures the schedule based on a user interaction delivering the queued messages in accordance with the reconfigured schedule. A scheduled plurality of messages can be transmitted in a clear and professional manner. Additionally, “ad hoc” messages can be incorporated into the schedule without significantly disrupting the other messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195752&OS=08195752&RS=08195752
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08195752
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081205
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 770 310 filed Feb. 2 2004 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 467 188 on Dec. 16 2008 and entitled Method for Scheduling and Transmitting Messages and which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to communication systems and particularly to a system for scheduling and transmitting messages.

In store public address systems and telephone queuing systems frequently communicate with customers by playing multiple pre recorded voice messages throughout the day. These systems usually play static advertising or informational messages at set intervals which are frequently interrupted by important or ad hoc messages operational which override or block the playing of static messages.

In a retail environment the static messages are typically professionally recorded and may be advertisements for products or services. The ad hoc messages are much more mundane such as paging personnel to answer a phone line requesting a clean up of a spilled product or even advertising of in store specials or events such as announcing to customers that in store prepared products fresh baked bread or rotisserie chickens are freshly available.

Telephone queuing systems also play advertising and informational messages at regular intervals. These messages are periodically interrupted with status information such as expected hold times. In both in store public address systems and telephone queuing systems instrumental music is frequently used to fill gaps between messages. In both systems however the interruption of one message to play another results in a choppy presentation of all of the messages. This results in a non professional presentation which generally decreases the effectiveness of both messages and can contribute to a consumer s perception that the company is unorganized.

Accordingly what is needed is an alternative method for queuing messages in the above described environments. The method should be somewhat simple cost effective and capable of being easily adapted into existing technology. The present invention addresses such a need.

A method and system for scheduling and transmitting messages is disclosed. The method and system comprise storing a plurality of audio files in an audio database and generating a schedule of queued messages via the plurality of audio files. The method and system further includes transmitting the queued messages based on the schedule and reconfiguring the schedule based on a user interaction. The method and system finally includes delivering the queued messages in accordance with the reconfigured schedule.

Through the use of the method and system in accordance with the present invention a scheduled plurality of messages can be transmitted in a clear and professional manner. Additionally ad hoc messages can be incorporated into the schedule without significantly disrupting the other messages.

The present invention relates generally to communication systems and particularly to a method and system for scheduling and transmitting messages. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment and the generic principles and features described herein will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

The present invention is presented in the context of a preferred embodiment. The preferred embodiment of the present invention is a method and system for scheduling and transmitting messages. Accordingly the method and system implements a scheme to schedule a queue of messages to be played based on various criteria including but not limited to the priority of the message the interruptability of the message the message length message repeat parameters etc. Through the use of the method and system in accordance with the present invention a scheduled plurality of messages can be transmitted in a clear and professional manner.

A method in accordance with the present invention may be implemented for example by operating a computer system to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. The instructions may reside in various types of computer readable media. In this respect another aspect of the present invention concerns a programmed product comprising computer readable media tangibly embodying a program of machine readable instructions executable by a digital data processor to perform a method for scheduling and transmitting messages.

This computer readable media may comprise for example RAM not shown contained within the system. Alternatively the instructions may be contained in another computer readable media such as a magnetic data storage diskette and directly or indirectly accessed by the computer system. Whether contained in the computer system or elsewhere the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable storage media such as a DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable computer readable media including transmission media such as digital analog and wireless communication links. In an illustrative embodiment of the invention the machine readable instructions may comprise lines of compiled C C or similar language code commonly used by those skilled in the programming for this type of application arts.

The plurality of messages upon which the schedule is generated preferably comprises static advertising messages corporate sponsored messages for various products and or services and local advertising messages in store specials or events such as announcing to customers that in store prepared products are freshly available . Each of these messages would typically have a relevant set of times that they will be played as well as a target number of repeats.

In addition actual delivery statistics may be collected. This information might be used to bill vendors for a per delivery advertising cost which may vary based upon the time of day that the message is played. A rule might also be set which indicates that interrupted messages are not counted as played and be re queued for later delivery.

However when ad hoc messages are employed the schedule must be reconfigured to incorporate the message. Ad hoc messages are messages prompted by a system user and can comprise instructions Maintenance wet spill in aisle 10 and or announcements Freshly baked bread is now available in the bakery . Accordingly when ad hoc messages are initiated the queuing system is responsible for reconfiguring the schedule if the ad hoc message may impact the generated schedule of the queued messages. If messages subsequently become overdue based on conflicts with other messages the system will reconfigure the queue of messages for a specified time frame e.g. an hour a day etc. until a time is reached when all scheduling conflicts have been resolved.

The system is also provided with a display device e.g. a video monitor or LED display screen and a keyboard connected to the bus . The keyboard can be used to enter graphic or alphanumeric messages to be stored and displayed on the display device as well as to perform system functions such as reviewing modifying or deleting graphic messages or entering data for scheduling message play times. Alternatively another type of input device can be employed for example to store video signals for generation on the display device in accordance with the present invention.

The system may also include a plurality of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can interact with the system. These interfaces can also interact with other systems that are coupled to the system . For example DLLs or remote procedure calls may be provided which may be used to create a new user interface into the system or may allow batch processing of input to queue new messages or report on entries within the system.

The composite message editor is an interface which allows the user to define the message segments and rules associated with creating a complete message. The composite message editor applies these rules to ensure that the message can be properly constructed based upon the rules defined for a message to ensure that the composite message component parts are available. The composite message editor minimally includes the ability to save edit delete messages. These actions may further be exported to another system.

The generic scheduler is a module which allows a user to define schedule times including repeats. The user is provided the ability to save the schedule for later use when queuing in messages. This enables the user to associate an audio message with the schedule rather than maintaining unique schedule data for each message.

The schedule validator optimizer validates and optimizes the schedule of the various messages. This interface allows the user to check the schedule of queued messages to inspect the level of calculated overlap or collision between messages. The optimizer could recommend changes to the schedule in order to reduce the number of collisions. The queuing system itself handles collisions by sorting the colliding messages by priority and playing them serially. However this interface allows the user to review the set of scheduled messages in order to determine if there are too many periods of high collisions or if the scheduling is such that ad hoc messages would create significant disturbances in the schedule.

The feedback editor is a component which leads a user through the process of defining the various specifics related to obtaining feedback. Feedback is discussed further herein below. 

The feedback receiver receives the feedback results from the system. In a simple case the data is simply stored in a database for later use or may be dumped into a file.

The security interface comprises security methods or processes in order to assign accountability of actions to the logged in user and therefore protect the business image. Due to the nature of this system there should be varying levels of security for each of the various methods of inputting data into this system. The specific security measures employed will vary from implementation to implementation.

A message consistency checker can be provided to ensure that all of the various message components are available within the system. Basically this function performs a consistency check on the various tables of the database to determine what tables refer to entries in other tables that do not exist. These results are reportable both locally and remotely.

All significant actions within the system should be logged to an audit log to provide for an audit of the system as well as to assist support of the system. This is a basic requirement of any computer based system. The details of the amount of data logged and the format of the data logged may be dependent on several factors but such detail is not material to this disclosure.

The In Store telephone access will allow a user to queue a message via selecting the initial category of the message then the individual variable components of the message. Note that in order to support this sort of function the user could be required to key enter different codes in the system to select the various message components. In the best implementation the access system will contain an audio recording which describes the category and selection options for the various variable portions of the audio message. In an ideal implementation in order to facilitate ease of use and reduce the effort required to complete the component parts of the message different component parts might be maintained.

For instance the maintenance cleanup message above might be maintained in the system but there might also be a table in the database which allows a composite message to define another composite message while specifying some of the variable parts for instance creating a dry spill message and a wet spill message by utilizing the main components of the maintenance cleanup message.

Telephone based access is an important component of the system as it provides an inexpensive interface into the system at various locations throughout the store without requiring hardware installations at those locations where a telephone is already installed.

The advertising modules are distinct modules within the system each with different rules applied to determining how to queue messages. In the most basic implementation the In Store module allows queuing of a subset of messages and allows adding trivia messages to the system. The regional and corporate modules include more advanced function such as setting up to obtain feedback from the shoppers in the store and may include more advanced tie ins to other systems with this feedback.

The feedback obtained may be used in several ways. The retailer already knows how many customers and dollars worth of sales volume occur at each store by reviewing sales data information but may be interested in determining other information related to the advertising.

Using such a system the retailer might be able to determine the reach of advertising to mobile device users simply by requesting identification by the device as feedback to all mobile devices in the store at the time that the advertisement is played. The advertisement may then be evaluated by tracking the sales of the customers present to determine if the advertisement produced results. In this case the feedback did not include a prompt for information from the user the mobile device could service the request without user interaction.

In a preferred embodiment the Corporate and Regional advertising modules should support an easy export of data to facilitate transmission of the scheduled messages to remote locations.

APIs written for this system should be written with the intent of creating an application developer s interface into the system to allow for quick application development and ease of use.

The APIs are intended to be the basis of all development work related to the system. In an actual implementation it is expected that there may be several special purpose programs at a single retailer s location which are designed to queue only a subset of messages and may be tailored to the retailer s specific environment. The need for this is driven by the usually unique needs of different retailers based upon operational differences. Further the responsibilities of those persons performing different jobs within the store will have different uses of the system.

In general the API access should but does not need to allow full administration of the system. A sensible system design would include use of the APIs by each of the above modules which are expected to be a part of the system.

The underlying architecture of the API is not material to this disclosure. A preferred embodiment of the architecture will take advantage of the use of a routable protocol to allow use of the same API set for local access as for remote access.

In a preferred embodiment emerging technologies such as XML and Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP with attachment could be used to support all messaging within the system. Audio files may be transmitted in a SOAP message as an attachment.

Since the APIs are intended to provide the application developer with most if not all of the functions required to maintain the system the following are examples of the types of functions which most likely should be included in the API 

 Note that some of these functions may be provided via interfaces into the database directly but since not all users should have direct access into the database it is expected that the API will provide the access into the database to ensure that the system rules are enforced. 

Even though this function will most likely result in a table update for the database this function is listed separately since the function is more specific than simply updating an audio clip in the database.

Referring back to preferably the system further includes an audio database for storing an archive of audio files. The audio database could be located in the hard disk the ROM or another suitable location in the computer . In this embodiment the audio database is located in the ROM . The audio database maintains a table of the audio files wherein the table includes information related to the audio file e.g. the category of the file the length of the file a short description of the file an index number of the file etc.

Referring back to the queued messages are then transmitted based on the schedule via step . Next the schedule is reconfigured based on a user interaction via step . Finally the queued messages are delivered in accordance with the reconfigured schedule.

By way of example an audio file requesting a manager to come to the customer service counter might be a professionally recorded wav file featuring a pleasant sounding woman s voice saying the words store manager needed at customer service for customer assistance . The category might be Store Operations Announcement the description might be Manager report to customer service .

Additionally the audio file could be a composite message. A composite audio message is an audio message which is made up of various components. A composite audio message might be a single audio clip from the audio database but could in fact be a combination of message components that are selected based on a user interaction. The composite message could be expressed in the database as a set of static and variable components. For example the message Maintenance please report to aisle 3 for a dry spill clean up. can be broken down into the following components 

The static audio clips are selections from the audio database but to construct a store cleanup message these components are always fixed. The three selectable components are selected by a user preferably via a telephone keypad type device. The resulting composite message accordingly comprises the specific static message components as well as the selected variable components. It should be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the selection of the variable components of the message could be designed to conform to a set of predetermined rules that govern their selection.

Composite messages are preferably utilized to allow a user to queue the ad hoc messages. This is preferably accomplished via a telephone keypad type device whereby an initial category of the message is selected and then the individual variable components of the message are selected. Note that in order to support this sort of function the user could be required to key enter different codes in the system to select the various message components. For example an access system utilized by the keypad type device to access the audio database could contain an audio clip which describes the category and selection options for the various variable portions of an audio message.

All queued messages include a complete audio message all necessary scheduling attributes and feedback instructions. A message cannot be queued without all of the data required by the queuing system. Furthermore all of the message components should be available prior to queuing. It is possible to queue messages which are comprised of separate components such as queuing a static message with no feedback . In these cases the attributes are defined but have no actions associated with them.

If the system attempts to queue a message for which all of the components are not available the message is not queued and error information is returned to the user. In order to avoid this situation the system also includes functions to assist in validating that all of the components for a given message are available and should be able to provide a sufficient amount of information to identify the problem and perform an appropriate corrective action. End user application programs designed to interface with this system should appropriately prompt the user for the required information in order to minimize the chance of error and optimize the usability of the queued message.

Another feature of the present invention involves the added functionality of generating feedback from the scheduled transmission of messages. Feedback is any data collected as a result of prompting for information related to an audio message. The information could be related to advertised products including special offers for store products or the information could be related to ad hoc messages e.g. whether a store manager has responded to earlier page. In order to include this functionality the above described system must include feedback device s coupled thereto.

If a message should be rescheduled then the schedule attributes should be modified according to rule and reschedule message via step . The schedule attributes for example could be priority schedule frequency etc. of the message. Either after step or if the answer to rescheduling a message is no then it is determined if there are other overdue actions associated with this message via step . If the answer is no then that is the end of the process. If the answer is yes then the other overdue actions should be executed via step . Thereafter the process ends.

An inherent assumption regarding the ability to receive feedback from a device is the device s ability to receive the command and respond to it. For instance a customer s cell phone might need to not only join the store s local area network cell phone s PAN but may also need to download a module which facilitates this sort of communication with the system .

Once the feedback is received the system needs to know what to do with it. The data could be collected and sent as a results set over a socket to another system collected and stored in a table in the system database for future processing etc. Once the data is sent to the appropriate receiver a process may be started either locally or remotely for processing the data.

To illustrate consider the following examples A service area might queue an immediate message to the system via a PC which causes a message to be played requesting the manager s presence at in the customer service area. The feedback for this message is a prompt 30 seconds later which asks if the manager has arrived. If the manager has not arrived clerk responds negatively or a response to the prompt is not received in a timeout period perhaps defined as 10 seconds the message is requeued.

A method and system for scheduling and transmitting messages is disclosed. Accordingly the method and system implements a scheme to schedule a queue of messages to be played based on various criteria including but not limited to the priority of the message the interruptability of the message the message length message repeat parameters etc. Through the use of the method and system in accordance with the present invention a scheduled plurality of messages can be transmitted in a clear and professional manner.

Although the present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that there could be variations to the embodiments and those variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

