---

title: Methods and apparatus to draw attention to information presented via electronic displays to process plant operators
abstract: Example methods and apparatus to draw attention to information presented via electronic displays to process plant operators are disclosed. A disclosed example method to draw attention to information presented to a process plant operator comprises presenting an electronic process plant display, collecting process plant data, processing the process plant data to identify a portion of a process plant, and modifying the electronic process plant display to at least partially obscure substantially all of the process plant display except for the identified portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103367&OS=08103367&RS=08103367
owner: Fisher-Rosemount Systems, Inc.
number: 08103367
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081120
---
This disclosure relates generally to process plants and more particularly to methods and apparatus to draw attention to information presented via electronic displays to process plant operators.

Graphics based process plant operator displays are used pervasively throughout the process control industry to provide users and or operators with information about the operation of a process plant. To display ever increasing amounts of information to fewer and fewer plant personnel more complex and or larger displays are being used. Such operator displays serve a wide range of user needs. For example an operator display allows an operator and or process control engineer to configure customized graphs containing views of their process plant that allow them to view their process es quickly gain an understanding of process and or plant conditions and or control equipment run batches modify the process enter logs view production data pull up emissions data etc.

A disclosed example method to draw attention to information presented to a process plant operator includes presenting an electronic process plant display collecting process plant data processing the process plant data to identify a portion of a process plant and modifying the electronic process plant display to at least partially obscure substantially all of the process plant display except for the identified portion.

A disclosed example operator station apparatus includes a display an operator display module to present an operator application on the display and a spotlighter to analyze process plant data to identify a portion of a process plant and to obscure a portion the operator application wherein the portion of the operator application does not include the identified portion of the process plant.

Another disclosed example method to draw attention to information presented to a process plant operator includes presenting an electronic process plant display collecting process plant data processing the process plant data to identify a portion of a process plant identifying a geometric region surrounding the identified portion of the process plant display and highlighting the portion of the electronic process plant display inside the geometric region to draw attention to the portion of the process plant depicted inside the geometric region.

In a control room environment a process plant operator display provides process plant operators and other plant manufacturing personnel with an overview of and detailed information on all parts of the process the process equipment as well as the control system itself. Because the process plant operator display is a main focal point in the control room it is often surrounded by other equipment such as phones live video feeds log books and or other devices. To support the many tasks that plant personnel are required to perform operator displays often include navigation links that allow them to gain access to information related to scheduling materials handling shop floor procedures etc. While such devices and or capabilities can enhance collaboration between users and or operators and or enhance the effectiveness of operators they represent additional sources of information that compete for the attention of a process plant operator.

In some instances operators especially in off shifts and weekends find themselves working with limited support and or may need to perform duties that require them to leave the operator application. In such circumstances it is critical that the process process equipment and control system functions can be used to diagnose problems without operator involvement and provide the operators with advanced warnings related to conditions that are likely to occur e.g. a possible stuck valve plugged line fowled heater etc . For example the incorporation of Abnormal Situation Prevention technology and techniques are becoming critical features of control systems. However even with the use of such technologies process plant operators have a great deal of information competing for their attention. Spotlighting can provide clear visual indication of important process changes even when the display is viewed from a distance. Moreover spotlighting can also provide clear visual indication of important process changes that can be readily identified when an operator returns to an operator display and or application and or changes from one active display window to another display window within an operator display and or application.

Computing devices and visual display device technology are also making significant advances. While in the past it was typical for operator displays to run on dedicated workstations this is no longer as typical. Looking ahead operator display will need to run on workstations laptops tablet computers and personal digital assistants PDAs . Process plant operator display designers need to create displays that are easy to use look good are functional and perform well on everything from high performance graphics stations to the more graphically challenged environments of tablet computers and PDAs. In such examples screen sizes and resolutions may vary widely. Thus regardless of screen size and or resolution operators and other plant personnel need displays that are functional and which can quickly call their attention to important matters or information.

Traditionally to call attention to problems that have occurred alarms changes in process values numbers changing on a display a change in a bar graph etc. and or problems that are likely to occur early event detection a variety of techniques including alarming and display animations have been used. However these techniques rely on the operator being constantly visually attentive to notice changes and or require considerable up front engineering and rely on specific knowledge of the process plant. It is common for a single process plant display to include hundreds of changing process data values. This same display could also show a dozen or more active alarms at any time. Such large amounts of data are difficult for a human to visually remember and to track. For example if the operator is temporarily distracted from a portion of the display it may be difficult for them to remember what states alarms and values were previously being displayed. However such common lapses in visual memory may result in the operator not immediately and or not readily recognizing any important changes that may have occurred. While integrating historical trends into the displays is a traditional approach to help address this problem especially for analog values the use of historical trends is often not practical due to the amount of display space they consume and still require the operator to consciously check the trends. So important changes in plant conditions even when shown on the display can be easily missed if the operator is not consciously and or actively monitoring those data values.

In general the example apparatus methods and articles of manufacture described herein may be used to automatically identify portions of a process plant and or process that require attention of an operator and to automatically modify the operator display to highlight such portions or elements while optionally obscuring other portions or elements of the operator display. In contrast to traditional alarming and display animations that must be engineered using specific knowledge of the process plant the example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture described herein utilize generally applicable rules and or filters to identify portions of a process plant that have and or are changing and thus may be in need of attention by an operator. Consider an example operator display that is currently displaying tens or hundreds of alarms process variables etc. In such an example the operator may need to quickly identify the portion of the process plant most in need of their attention. However visually identifying such a portion of the process plant may be difficult using existing process plant operator displays. To assist the operator the example methods and apparatus described herein apply one or more rules filters and or heuristics to identify portions or elements of the process plant in need of attention and modify the operator display to highlight such elements or portions while optionally obscuring other portions or elements of the operator display. As described herein such rules filters and or heuristics can be defined and or implemented without specific knowledge of the process plant. Example rules filters and or heuristics highlight spotlight and or otherwise draw specific attention to for example conditions that have recently changed conditions that are currently changing conditions that are changing in a new way e.g. at a new rate of change . For example any or all new alarms any or all alarm activation changes a process variable having a large deviation a status change a flag a flag change a new item a new variable a most recent change in state a cluster of alarms a deviation in the rate of change a bad input a troublesome control loop a faulty device a chronically sticky valve or a fault may be identified and spotlighted.

The example operator station of allows a process plant operator to review and or operate one or more operator display screens and or applications that enable the process plant operator to view process plant variables view process plant states view process plant conditions view process plant alarms and or to change process plant settings e.g. set points and or operating states clear alarms silence alarms etc. . Such screens and or applications are typically designed and or implemented by process configuration engineers. An example manner of implementing the example operator station of is described below in connection with . Example operator display applications that may be used to implement the example operator station are described below in connection with and .

The example operator station of includes and or implements a spotlighter that automatically identifies information data alarms equipment and or any other element or portion of a process plant that may be in need of attention by an operator. When such elements are identified an operator display presented at the operator station is automatically modified to draw operator attention to the identified element s see and or . In some examples an operator may configure and or define the rules filters and or heuristics that are used to identify process control elements to which attention should be drawn. For example the operator may specify that the newest or most recent alarm is to be spotlighted. Additionally or alternatively the operator may specify that the newest alarm is to be spotlighted unless a process variable is more than 50 out of bounds in which case the out of bounds process variable is to be spotlighted. It should be appreciated that the operator and or a process configuration engineer can configure and or define such rules filters and or heuristics to include any number of criteria and any number or priorities for the criteria. The rules filters and or heuristics used by the example spotlighter are defined and or implemented without the need for specific knowledge of the process plant. For example a rule that selects the newest alarm chronically stuck valves troublesome control loops etc. can be defined without any knowledge of the process plant and or the process es implemented by the process plant. In some examples the rules filters and or heuristics are statically defined. Additionally or alternatively an operator and or process configuration engineer can define create and or specify spotlighting rules filters and or heuristics while the process plant is operating.

The example workstation of may be configured as an application station to perform one or more information technology applications user interactive applications and or communication applications. For example the workstation may be configured to perform primarily process control related applications while another application station not shown may be configured to perform primarily communication applications that enable the process control system to communicate with other devices or systems using any desired communication media e.g. wireless hardwired etc. and protocols e.g. HTTP SOAP etc. . The example operator station and the example workstation of may be implemented using one or more workstations and or any other suitable computer systems and or processing systems. For example the operator station and or workstation could be implemented using single processor personal computers single or multi processor workstations etc.

The example LAN of may be implemented using any desired communication medium and protocol. For example the LAN may be based on a hardwired and or wireless Ethernet communication scheme. However as will be readily appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art any other suitable communication medium s and or protocol s could be used. Further although a single LAN is illustrated in more than one LAN and or other alternative pieces of communication hardware may be used to provide redundant communication paths between the example systems of .

The example controller of is coupled to a plurality of smart field devices and via a digital data bus and an input output I O gateway . The smart field devices may be Fieldbus compliant valves actuators sensors etc. in which case the smart field devices communicate via the digital data bus using the well known Foundation Fieldbus protocol. Of course other types of smart field devices and communication protocols could be used instead. For example the smart field devices could instead be Profibus and or HART compliant devices that communicate via the data bus using the well known Profibus and HART communication protocols. Additional I O devices similar and or identical to the I O gateway may be coupled to the controller to enable additional groups of smart field devices which may be Foundation Fieldbus devices HART devices etc. to communicate with the controller . Such smart field devices may provide more data and or information than non smart field devices and thus may contribute to the information overload problem s addressed by the methods and apparatus described herein.

In addition to the example smart field devices one or more non smart field devices and may be communicatively coupled to the example controller . The example non smart field devices and of may be for example conventional 4 20 milliamp mA or 0 10 volts direct current VDC devices that communicate with the controller via respective hardwired links.

The example controller of may be for example a DeltaV controller sold by Fisher Rosemount Systems Inc. an Emerson Process Management company. However any other controller could be used instead. Further while only one controller in shown in additional controllers and or process control platforms of any desired type and or combination of types could be coupled to the LAN . In any case the example controller performs one or more process control routines associated with the process control system that have been generated by a system engineer and or other system operator using the operator station and which have been downloaded to and or instantiated in the controller .

While illustrates an example process control system within which the methods and apparatus to draw attention to information presented to process plant operators described in greater detail below may be advantageously employed persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the methods and apparatus to control information presented to process plant operators described herein may if desired be advantageously employed in other process plants and or process control systems of greater or less complexity e.g. having more than one controller across more than one geographic location etc. than the illustrated example of .

To allow an operator to interact with the example processor the example operator station of includes any type of display . Example displays include but are not limited to a computer monitor a computer screen a television a mobile device e.g. a smart phone etc. capable to display user interfaces and or applications implemented by the processor and or more generally the example operator station .

The example operating system of displays and or facilitates the display of application user interfaces e.g. any of the example user interfaces by and or at the example display . To facilitate operator interactions with applications implemented by the example operator station the example operating system implements an application programming interface API by which the example operator display module can define and or select a user interface and cause and or instruct the operating system to display the defined and or selected user interface . The example operating system also implements an API by which the example spotlighter of can modify a user interface and or specify how one or more portions or elements of a user interface are to be highlighted and or spotlighted. Example user interfaces are described below in connection with and .

To present process plant operator displays and or applications the example operator station of includes the example operator display module . The example operator display module of collects data and or information from one or more process controllers e.g. the example controller of and or other elements of a process plant control system and uses the collected data and or information to create and or define a particular user interface e.g. the example interface of based on the state of the process plant and or a portion of the process plant selected by an operator. The created and or defined display is displayed at the example display by and or via the example operating system . The example operator display module also receives operator inputs via the user interface e.g. in response to the operator selecting adjusting and or operating user interface elements of the user interface and sends appropriate commands data and or information to the controller and or more generally the process control system .

Using process control data and or information collected by and or provided to the example operator station the example spotlighter of identifies one or more alarms variables equipment and or any other elements of an operator display to which operator attention should be drawn. The example spotlighter applies one or more of the spotlight rules filters and or heuristics to identify the process plant elements to be spotlighted. When and or as process plant elements to be spotlighted are identified the example spotlighter notifies the operator display module to highlight the identified element while optionally wholly or partially obscuring other portions of a user interface . For example the spotlighter can specify the portion s or element s to be highlighted with the operator display module making the corresponding modifications to the user interface . Additionally or alternatively the example spotlighter can specify which portion s of a user interface e.g. a circular region a rectangular region an oval region a star shaped region etc. are to be highlighted i.e. left un obscured and or colored so as to standout be highlighted and or have a glowing appearance and which portion s are to be optionally wholly or partially obscured. Portions of a user interface can be obscured for example by graying them out diminishing them in appearance desaturating the colors used to display them and or by overlaying a partially or wholly transparent layer of a neutral color or pattern e.g. gray .

A portion or element of an operator display can be un spotlighted based on any number and or type s of conditions and or rules. For example a portion or element could be spotlighted for a configurable length of time and then automatically un spotlighted a portion or element could remain spotlighted until another portion or element is identified to be spotlighted a portion or element could remain spotlighted until an operator acknowledges the portion or element etc. Moreover in some examples an operator is able to enable and or disable the automatic spotlighting of portions or elements of an operator display. Further still more than one portion and or element can be simultaneously spotlighted. Moreover portions and or elements of hidden unopened and or inactive operator display windows can be spotlighted such that when operator attention is directed to a newly visible a newly opened and or a newly active operator display window operator attention can be quickly and or substantially immediately drawn to one or more items in need of attention.

To store rules used by the example spotlighter the example operator station of includes the spotlight rules database . Using any type s and or number of languages e.g. XML records fields and or entries the example spotlight rules database of stores rules filters and or heuristics used by the spotlighter to identify particular alarms variables equipment and or any other elements of process plant to which operator attention should be drawn. The example spotlight rules database may be stored using any type s and or numbers of memory ies and or memory device s . The rules filters and or heuristics stored in the spotlight rules database and used by the example spotlighter are defined and or implemented without specific knowledge of a particular process plant. For example a rule that selects the newest alarm or alarm activation change within a specified period of time e.g. one minute can be defined without any knowledge of the process plant and or the process es implemented by the process plant. In some examples the example rules filters and or heuristics are statically defined. Additionally or alternatively an operator and or process configuration engineer can define create and or specify spotlighting rules filters and or heuristics while the process plant is operating.

While an example manner of implementing the example operator station of has been illustrated in the data structures elements processes and devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example operating system the example operator display module the example user interface s the example spotlighter the example spotlight rules database and or more generally the example operator station of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Further still the example operator station may include additional elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated data structures elements processes and devices. Moreover while the example operator station of operates to spotlight operator displays without consulting a shared server the example spotlighter of could additionally or alternatively consult a shared server to determine which portion s of an operator display to which attention should be drawn.

To display process data and or information the example user interface of includes any number of display user interface elements two of which are designated in with reference numerals and . The example display element displays the current level in the rightmost LIC TANK3 tank. Likewise the example display element displays the current level in the leftmost tank.

Based on process plant data information and or variables collected from the process plant the example spotlighter of determines that the level of the rightmost tank is to be highlighted as shown in . As illustrated in a circular region surrounding the level is unobscured e.g. unmodified while substantially the rest of the operator display is partially obscured. As shown the attention of an operator using the example user interface of is easily and or rapidly drawn to the level . While only the level is spotlighted in other elements of the operator display of could likewise be highlighted. Moreover more than one element of an operator display could be highlighted at the same time as determined by the rules filters and or heuristics used by the spotlighter .

The example user interface of illustrates yet another version of the example user interface of after an element of the process plant to which attention should be drawn has been identified and the element has been highlighted and or spotlighted in the user interface. In the illustrated example of a region around the level highlighted so as to draw attention to the region . For instance the example region may be depicted colored and or shaded so as to make the region appears as if it is for example glowing. Moreover a geographic region may be moved have its color changed and or otherwise modified so as to readily draw attention to a portion of an operator display.

In some examples when a portion of an operator display no longer needs to be spotlighted spotlighting is faded and or otherwise diminished over time over to draw attention to an operator that the process plant element no longer needs attention. Additionally or alternatively the method used to highlight a portion of an operator display depends on how the operator display is currently being used. For example when an operator is currently interacting with an operator display spotlighting is performed by modifying an identified portion of the display to make it appear to glow while not impeding usage of the operator display. However if the operator is not currently interacting with the operator display non highlighted portions of the display can be wholly or partially obscured without risk of interfering with the operator s interaction with the operator display.

The example process of begins with the example operator display module displaying a user interface e.g. the example user interface of block . The example operator station collects and or updates process control data information and or variables block . The example spotlighter applies one or more spotlight rules to the collected and or updated control data to determine one or more alarms variables equipment and or other elements of an operator display to which attention should be drawn block . If the spotlighting of one or more operator display elements is to be change block the spotlighter requests and or instructs the example operator display module to modify the user interface to modify the spotlighting of the identified elements block . Control then returns to block to display the modified user interface. If spotlighting does not need to be changed block control returns to block without modifying the user interface.

The processor platform P of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor P. The processor P executes coded instructions P and or P present in main memory of the processor P e.g. within a RAM P and or a ROM P . The processor P may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor P may execute among other things the example process of to implement the example methods and apparatus described herein.

The processor P is in communication with the main memory including a ROM P and or the RAM P via a bus P. The RAM P may be implemented by dynamic random access memory DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device s and ROM may be implemented by flash memory EPROM EEPROM a CD a DVD and or any other desired type of memory device s . Access to the memory P and the memory P may be controlled by a memory controller not shown . The example memory P may be used to implement the example spotlight rules database of .

The processor platform P also includes an interface circuit P. The interface circuit P may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices P and one or more output devices P are connected to the interface circuit P. The input devices P may be used to for example collect process control data information and or variables. The example output devices P may be used to for example present user interfaces at the example display 

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. Such example are intended to be non limiting illustrative examples. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

