---

title: System for representing an autonomous entity
abstract: A system is provided for representing an autonomous entity, which may be a winged entity. In a particular embodiment, the system includes a vessel having an interior that is viewable from outside the vessel. The system further includes a rotational drive system, a flexible shaft connected to the rotational drive system for rotation by the rotational drive system, and a display object positioned in the interior of the vessel and connected to the flexible shaft at a position that is spaced from the rotational drive system. In a particular embodiment, the display object has a plurality of wings, including a first wing and a second wing that is generally opposed to the first wing. Rotation of the flexible shaft causes the display object to move within the vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07766717&OS=07766717&RS=07766717
owner: 
number: 07766717
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080323
---
The present invention relates to amusement devices with moving display objects and more particularly to amusement devices with moving display objects that resemble a fictional or real autonomous entity which may be a winged entity.

There have been several amusement devices proposed in the past that provide a display object that is moved by a motor and that is configured to resemble a living entity such as a butterfly. However the movement of the display object may be limited in one or more ways and for a variety of reasons there is typically limited realism in the ability of the display object to appear to be a living entity. For example some amusement devices have the display object mounted on a clearly visible shaft that is connected to a remotely positioned motor. In addition some of these amusement devices offer little in the way of interaction with a user thereby limiting the range of ways such devices can be used to the amusement of the owner.

Consequently there is a need for an amusement device that provides a moving display object that has enhanced realism. There is also a need for an amusement device that has increased capability to interact with a user.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to a system for representing an autonomous entity that may be a winged entity. In a particular embodiment the system includes a vessel having an interior that is viewable from outside the vessel. The system further includes a rotational drive system a flexible shaft connected to the rotational drive system for rotation by the rotational drive system and a display object positioned in the interior of the vessel and connected to the flexible shaft at a position that is spaced from the rotational drive system. The display object has a plurality of wings including a first wing and a second wing. At least one of the wings is movable as a result of rotation of the flexible shaft. Rotation of the flexible shaft causes the display object to move and resemble an autonomous winged entity within the vessel. It is optionally possible that the display object could include some other feature that is movable by the rotation of the flexible shaft instead of any of the wings. For example the display object could optionally include one or more arms and or legs that are movable by the rotation of the flexible shaft. The display object may or may not have any wings.

In a second aspect the invention is directed to a system for representing an autonomous entity which may be a winged entity and which includes a motor a controller connected to the motor a flexible shaft connected to the motor and a display object connected to the flexible shaft. The display object has a first feature and a second feature. The first and second features may be wings or some other features such as arms or legs. Rotation of the flexible shaft causes at least one of the first and second features to move. The controller is configured to control the rotation of the flexible shaft in such a way that the display object carries out a plurality of different actions thereby resembling an autonomous entity. Optionally features may be wings and the actions may include an action whereby the controller causes the at least one of the first and second wings to rotate through a plurality of revolutions. Optionally the actions may include an action whereby the controller causes the at least one of the first and second wings to reciprocate. Optionally each action may be controlled using a plurality of parameters each having a value wherein the value for at least one of the parameters is generated using a random number generator.

In a third aspect the invention is directed to a system for representing an autonomous entity which may be a winged entity. In a particular embodiment the system includes a vessel having an interior that is viewable from outside the vessel. The system further includes a rotational drive system a flexible shaft connected to the rotational drive system for rotation by the rotational drive system and a display object positioned in the interior of the vessel and connected to the flexible shaft at a position that is spaced from the rotational drive system. The display object has a first feature which may be a wing and a second feature which may be a wing. Rotation of the flexible shaft causes the display object to move and resemble an autonomous entity within the vessel. A tap sensor system is provided and is configured to signal a controller when a user taps on the vessel. The controller can alter the behaviour of the display object in the vessel based on signals sent by the tap sensor system.

In a fourth aspect the present invention is directed to a system for representing an autonomous winged entity. In a particular embodiment the system includes a rotational drive system a flexible shaft connected to the rotational drive system for rotation by the rotational drive system and a display object connected to the flexible shaft at a position that is spaced from the rotational drive system. The display object has a plurality of wings including a first wing and a second wing. Rotation of the flexible shaft causes the display object to move and resemble an autonomous winged entity. One or more landing surfaces may be provided for the display object to rest on. Alternatively the display object may remain substantially permanently airborne.

In a fifth aspect the present invention is directed to a system for representing an entity that moves in synchronization with sound. In a particular embodiment the sound is in the form of digital signals that are outputted via an audio speaker that is part of the system. The system further includes a stepper motor a controller operatively connected to the stepper motor a flexible shaft connected to the stepper motor for rotation by the stepper motor and a display object connected to the flexible shaft. The controller is configured to control rotation of the stepper motor in synchronization with the digital signals.

In a sixth aspect the present invention is directed to a system for representing a butterfly. The system includes a motor a controller for controlling the operation of the motor a flexible shaft connected to the motor and a display object connected to the flexible shaft. The display object includes a plurality of wings at least one of which is movable in response to the rotation of the flexible shaft. The controller is configured to operate the motor to turn the at least one wing so as to mimic selected actions of a butterfly.

In a seventh aspect the invention is directed to an interactive system including a display object that is movable by a rotational drive system through a flexible shaft. A user can interact with the display object to alter the actions taken by the display object. In a particular embodiment the user can interact with the display object by tapping on a vessel in which the display object is positioned.

Reference is made to which shows a system for representing an autonomous winged entity in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The system for representing an autonomous winged entity may represent any suitable type of fictional or real autonomous winged entity such as for example a fairy a butterfly a dragon or a bird for the amusement of a user .

Referring to the system for representing an autonomous winged entity may include a vessel a rotational drive system a flexible shaft that is connected to the rotational drive system for rotation by the rotational drive system and a display object positioned in the vessel .

The vessel has a vessel wall that defines an interior . The interior is viewable by the user from outside the vessel . In a preferred embodiment at least a portion of the vessel wall is made from a transparent material such as glass or a suitable transparent polymeric material.

The shape of the interior of the vessel may be generally spherical as shown in . Alternatively the vessel may have any other suitable shape such as for example generally rectangular.

Referring to the vessel includes a drive system enclosure that defines a drive system enclosure cavity . The rotational drive system is preferably positioned in the drive system enclosure cavity so as to be obscured from view by the user so as to enhance the appearance that the display object is an autonomous winged entity in the vessel .

The drive system enclosure may make up a lid for the vessel as shown in . Hiding the rotational drive system in what may appear as an ordinary component of the vessel ie. a lid further obscures the presence of the rotational drive system .

The rotational drive system is configured to impart rotary motion to the flexible shaft . The rotational drive system may be made up of any suitable kind of drive means such as for example a motor . The motor may be any suitable kind of motor such as for example a DC bipolar stepper motor or a DC unipolar stepper motor. In a preferred embodiment the motor is powered by one or more batteries mounted in a battery compartment that is incorporated into a base of the vessel .

The motor may have any selected properties. For example in embodiments where the motor is a stepper motor the motor may have any selected step size such as an 18 degree step size. In embodiments where the motor is a bipolar stepper motor the motor may be movable in half steps for increased positional control. It will be understood that half stepping of the motor is not a requirement and further that the motor need not be a bipolar stepper motor or a stepper motor at all.

The motor may be operatively connected to the flexible shaft in any suitable way. For example the motor may have an output shaft as shown at . The output shaft is connected to an end of the connected shaft which may be referred to as the connected end of the flexible shaft . The connection between the output shaft and the flexible shaft may be by some suitable means such as by a grippy resilient polymeric sleeve . Instead of connecting the flexible shaft and motor output shaft by means of the sleeve a magnet not shown could be provided on one of the flexible shaft and motor output shaft for magnetically attaching to a magnet or paramagnetic material on the other of the flexible shaft and motor output shaft . Providing a magnetic connection would facilitate interchanging a display object with another display object not shown which may have a different shape or coloration thereby enhancing the appeal of the system to the user.

In a preferred embodiment the output shaft and the flexible shaft are connected end to end so that they are co axial so as not to introduce an eccentricity into the rotation of the connected end of the flexible shaft . However it is alternatively possible for the connected end of the flexible shaft to be mounted to the output shaft of the motor with some overlap between them longitudinally.

It is at least theoretically possible to provide a motor with an output shaft that is a hollow shaft so that the connected end of the flexible shaft can be mounted therein by some suitable means to be driven by the motor .

The flexible shaft may be any suitable type of flexible shaft. The flexible shaft has a body portion a connected end and a free end . The body portion is biased towards extending in a straight line. The flexible shaft may be a made from metallic wire and preferably has a diameter that is sufficiently small to reduce its visibility to the user . Preferably the cross sectional thickness of the wire may be in the range of approximately 0.006 inches to approximately 0.008 inches and more preferably approximately 0.0065 inches to approximately 0.007 inches. In these preferable and more preferable ranges the wire is generally difficult to see by the user . Alternatively the wire may be thicker so as to support a heavier display object . In some embodiments such as those wherein the wire is thick enough to be easily seen with the naked eye other means may be employed to hide the presence of the wire. As an example the lighting near the wire may be controlled to cooperate with the wire to obscure the wire. As another example elements that reside behind and or in front of the wire when the system is viewed from a particular viewpoint may be provided with a selected coloration and or pattern to obscure the wire. In embodiments wherein the vessel is provided the wall of the vessel both in front of and behind the wire may be colored and or patterned to obscure the wire. In general by obscuring the presence of the flexible shaft the display object would appear to be moving in the vessel without being driven by any external power source enhancing the appearance that the display object is an autonomous winged entity.

It is alternatively possible that in some embodiments the wire need not be obscured at all by any means and may thus be clearly visible to the viewer.

The wire may have a circular cross sectional shape. Alternatively the wire may have a non circular cross sectional shape. For example the wire may have an elliptical cross sectional shape or a polygonal cross sectional shape such as a triangular cross sectional shape. The wire may be made from any suitable material such as type 304V stainless steel.

Preferably the flexible shaft has a suitable degree of flexibility to permit the display object to move about in the vessel in a random way thereby augmenting the appearance that the display object is a live autonomous winged entity to the viewer while having sufficient torsional rigidity to inhibit tangling during operation. The cross sectional thickness of the flexible shaft impacts on its stiffness. Additionally the material selected for the flexible shaft impacts on its stiffness.

Preferably the flexible shaft extends downward into the vessel from above and is of sufficiently long that it is in a curved configuration no matter where the display object is positioned in the vessel . By being in a curved configuration the spring tension in the flexible shaft urges the display object towards the vessel wall . As shown in the flexible shaft is sufficiently long that it contacts the bottom of the vessel wall and bends through an arc of approximately 180 degrees and urges the display object against a generally vertical portion of the vessel wall . By using the spring tension in the flexible shaft to urge the display object against the vessel wall and in particular against a generally vertical portion of the vessel wall the appearance of the display object as an autonomous winged entity is enhanced.

The display object is connected to the flexible shaft at a position that is spaced from the rotational drive system . For example the display object may be connected to the free end of the flexible shaft .

The display object may have any suitable structure. For example the display object may include a plurality of wings including a first wing and a second wing that is generally opposed to the first wing . The first and second wings may be made from any suitable material such as for example Mylar acetate polyester film or paper. It is optionally possible for the display object to include more than the two wings and . For example the display object could include a third and a fourth wing neither of which are shown for a total of two pairs of wings.

The first and second wings and are preferably rotatable relative to each other. The first wing may be connected to one or more first hinge members through which the flexible shaft passes and the second wing may be connected to one or more second hinge members through which the flexible shaft passes. Thus in the embodiment shown in the flexible shaft itself holds the first and second wings and together.

Some means may be provided to cause relative movement between the first and second wings and . For example one of the wings and may be connected fixedly to the flexible shaft while the other of the wings and may be rotatably connected to the flexible shaft . In the particular embodiment shown in the free end of the flexible shaft is connected to the second wing . The first wing however is not fixedly connected to the flexible shaft and is thus freely rotatable relative to the flexible shaft . Thus the first wing may be referred to as the rotatably attached wing and the second wing may be referred to as the fixedly attached wing . It will be understood that it is possible for the second wing to be freely rotatable about the flexible shaft and for the first wing to be fixedly connected to the free end of the flexible shaft .

The display object may further include a body member that is connected to the flexible shaft and that is configured to resemble the body of the entity represented by the display object . For example the body member may be configured to resemble the body of a fairy or the body of a butterfly. The body member may be connected to the flexible shaft in any suitable way. As shown in the body member may be rotatably connected to the flexible shaft by means of one or more hinge members . Thus in the embodiment shown in the flexible shaft itself holds the first and second wings and together and also connects the body to the first and second wings and . Such a construction simplifies the structure of the overall system by eliminating certain components such as a separate hinge pin not shown that could otherwise be used to hold the first and second wings and and body together.

It is alternatively possible for the body member to be directly connected to one or both of the wings and .

Referring to the system for representing a winged flying object may optionally include a controller . The controller can be used to control several functions including for example the operation of the motor . Referring to the controller may be configured to receive external input from the user via one or more input devices . The input devices may include for example a set of one or more buttons a slide switch and a tap input system . The tap input system is configured to receive input from the user in the form of taps by the user on the vessel . The tap input system may include a vibration sensor and an amplifier .

The controller may be configured to send signals to one or more output devices such as the motor an audio output device such as a speaker and a light which may be for example an LED. The operation of the controller and associated input and output devices and is described further below.

The controller may be programmed with a plurality of actions see . For example exemplary actions may include FLY FLAP FLUTTER REST FEED LOVE SNOOZE DANCE and QUESTION which are shown at and respectively. is a list of the exemplary actions along with an indication of whether there are one or more types of variants. For example for the FLY action there are two variants which are discussed further below.

The controller may control several motor parameters and in order to carry out the different actions . Exemplary parameters are shown at and in and respectively along with exemplary values for them. Parameter may be for example the angle through which the motor rotates during a single motor movement also referred to as a rep of an action . For example for a FLAP action the motor rotates through 32 half steps which for the exemplary bipolar stepper motor described above corresponds to 288 degrees of rotation for each rep. Another parameter is the number of reps to be carried out by the motor to complete an action. For example a FLAP action would involve the fixedly attached wing reciprocating back and forth from one to five times. Another parameter is the speed of rotation of the motor .

As shown in and the values for one or more of the parameters can vary within a range. For example the speed of the motor parameter shown in during a FLAP action can be anywhere from a first speed which is given a value of 3 in and a second speed which is given a value of 35 in . In the particular embodiment shown in the speed values shown may refer to a period of delay between each of the polarity phase changes of the motor . A smaller value eg. a value of 3 corresponds to a shorter delay between polarity phase changes and a greater value eg. a value of 35 corresponds to a longer delay between polarity phase changes. Thus in this exemplary embodiment a speed of 3 is faster than a speed of 35.

One or more of the parameters selected for a particular action may be selected randomly. For example with respect to a FLY action the motor speed parameter and the number of reps that make up an action parameter may be randomly selected values that fall within the selected acceptable ranges of motor speeds and number of reps.

Thus a first FLY action may take place for a first number of reps and at a first motor speed and a subsequent FLY action may take place for a second number of reps at a second motor speed. The appearance of randomness in the actions being carried out further enhances the appearance that the display object is an autonomous winged entity.

Randomly selected values may be selected in any suitable way. For example they may be truly randomly selected using a random number routine or may alternatively be selected from a table of random numbers.

Each of the actions is described in further detail below. A FLY action may include two variants. In the first variant the motor is rotated through a selected number of movements at a selected speed. In the second variant the motor is rotated in one direction through a first selected number of movements at a first selected speed and is then rotated in the opposite direction through a second selected number of movements at a second selected speed.

For a FLY action the specific variant the number of reps and the motor speed may all be randomly selected.

During a FLY action the fixedly connected wing pushes the rotatably connected wing to rotate with it. The rotation of the wings and pushes the display object away from the vessel wall and causes the display object to move around in the vessel . Spring tension in the flexible shaft and or the action of the wings and rotating and colliding with the vessel wall can cause the display object to move in an apparently random way in the vessel thereby enhancing the appearance that the display object is an autonomous winged entity. In general however rotation of the wings and in one direction will drive the display object to move in a particular direction around the interior of the vessel . When the flexible shaft stops rotating the fixedly connected wing also stops rotating. The spring tension in the flexible shaft causes the display object to again engage the vessel wall appearing to have landed .

By providing the second variant of the FLY action the display object may move in a first direction around the interior and then move in the opposite direction around the interior in relatively quick succession which mimics the movements that have been observed in some entities such as butterflies.

A FLAP action involves reciprocation of the fixedly connected wing back and forth a selected number of times. The FLAP action may include several variants. For example in a first variant the fixedly connected wing moves back and forth at the same speed. In a second variant the fixedly connected wing moves in one direction at a first speed and in the other direction at a second speed. In a third variant the motor speed for the wing movement in the both directions may be randomly selected values which may differ for wing movement in each direction . In a fourth variant the motor speed increases progressively throughout the action. For example the variant may progress as follows the motor rotates initially in a first direction at a first speed then rotates in the opposite direction to complete the first rep at an incrementally higher speed then rotates in the first direction again at a yet higher speed and so on until the action is completed. In a fifth variant the motor speed decreases progressively throughout the action.

Referring to as the motor rotates the flexible shaft causes the fixedly attached wing to rotate by some amount which may or may not be the same amount that the motor rotates depending on the stiffness of the flexible shaft . During the reciprocation of the fixedly attached wing the rotatably attached wing may remain substantially stationary. The fixedly attached wing may approach or contact the rotatably attached wing when moving in one direction and may separate from the rotatably attached wing when moving in the other direction thereby appearing to flap.

It will be noted that during a FLAP action one or both of the wings and may move and the body of the display object may move somewhat but overall the display object remains stationary. By contrast during a FLY action the entire display object moves about in the vessel . Thus the system may be capable of providing movement in elements of the display object while keeping the overall display object stationary in the vessel and may be also capable of providing movement to the entire display object to move the display object about.

The FLUTTER action may be similar to the FLAP action and may involve reciprocation of the motor and consequently the fixedly attached wing however the FLUTTER action occurs at a high motor speed. There may be two variants of the FLUTTER action . In the first variant the angle swept in one rep parameter may be 16 full steps of the motor ie. an angular distance of 288 degrees similar to a FLAP action . In the second variant the angle swept in one rep may be 10 full motor steps ie. 180 degrees.

The REST action involves powering down of the motor for a selected period of time. The amount of time may vary and may be selected randomly.

The FEED action is used as part of an optional feature of the system wherein the display object is treated by the user like a virtual pet. For example when the user presses a FEED button shown at the controller carries out a FEED action . The FEED action is intended to symbolize the display object eating something or nibbling something and may involve the motor reciprocating back and forth over a selected angular range which may be small eg. 6 half steps or 54 degrees . In an exemplary embodiment the FEED action may be carried out when the button is depressed and is stopped when the button is not depressed. The motor speed involved in a FEED action may range from a speed of 10 which is relatively fast to 30 which is relatively slow.

The LOVE action is also used as part of the treatment of the display object as a virtual pet and may also take place only when a selected button shown at is depressed. The LOVE action may be similar to the FEED action eg. reciprocation over a short angular range except that it involves a high motor speed eg. a motor speed value of 2 4 .

The SNOOZE action may also be part of the treatment of the display object as a virtual pet and may also take place only when a selected button shown at is depressed. The SNOOZE action may be similar to the FLAP action except that the SNOOZE action may take place at very slow speed. The speed of the motor may be sufficiently slow to permit the user to see the motor step through its angular range when performing the action . This slow movement of the display object and any associated sound may be suggestive that the display object is snoring. It is optionally possible that upon depression of the button the controller would progressively ramp down the speed of the motor as the SNOOZE action progresses to make it appear that the display object gradually falls asleep instead of responding immediately to the press of the button with slow wing movement. It is also optionally possible for the controller to ramp up the speed of the motor once the button is no longer depressed to make it appear that the display object wakes up gradually from a sleep state instead of immediately making the display object active.

The DANCE action may also take place only when a selected button shown at is depressed. The DANCE action may be similar to a FLAP action but with each movement of the fixedly connected wing sweeping through two full revolutions before changing direction. As a result the entire display object flips over back and forth as the wing rotates back and forth. This flipping over back and forth resembles a dancing action.

It is optionally possible for the controller to play music through the speaker when the button is depressed and to synchronize the movements in the DANCE action to match the beat of the music. Synchronizing the music which is stored digitally and the movement of the motor is facilitated in embodiments wherein the motor is a stepper motor.

It is also optionally possible to introduce other types of movement to be synchronized with music as part of a DANCE action . For example the controller may intersperse periods of reciprocating movement of the motor with a brief period of rotation of the motor through multiple revolutions in one direction similar to a FLY action or with a brief period that is similar to a FLUTTER action as part of a DANCE action . It is also optionally possible for the movement of the motor to be synchronized with other sounds from the speaker and not just music.

Synchronizing music and or other sounds may be done with several other actions also such as the FLAP action the FLUTTER action the FEED action the LOVE action the SNOOZE action and the QUESTION action . Synchronized movement and sound may be used as a form of communication from the display object to the user . Selected combinations of sounds and movements can be provided with selected meanings. The meanings can be listed in a manual that would be provided to the user with the purchase of the system .

In the QUESTION action the user presses a button shown at after posing a question to the display object . The controller selects one of three possible variants with which to respond. The selection of which variant to respond with may be random since the controller is not contemplated in some embodiments to be capable of interpreting human speech. The first variant may itself comprise three actions in succession a REST action which lasts for three seconds a FLY action in which the fixedly connected wing rotates in a first selected direction to drive the display object around the interior of the vessel in a first selected direction eg. clockwise when viewed from above followed by another three second REST action . Preferably the display object would make approximately two complete loops around the vessel interior in the first variant. This first variant may correspond to an answer of YES . The motor speed would be selected so that the display object would travel sufficiently slowly as to appear to be moving deliberately.

The second variant may comprise three actions in succession a first three second REST action a FLY action in which the fixedly connected wing rotates in a second selected direction to drive the display object around the interior of the vessel in a second selected direction eg. counter clockwise when viewed from above followed by another three second REST action . This second variant may correspond to an answer of NO . Preferably the display object would make approximately two complete loops around the vessel interior in the second variant.

The third variant may involve a first three second REST action followed by a succession of three FLY actions wherein the display object flies in a first direction eg. clockwise approximately half way around the vessel interior then flies in a second direction eg. counter clockwise approximately half way around the vessel interior then flies in the first direction again approximately half way around the interior . This third variant may correspond to an answer of MAYBE .

The FLAP action and some of the other actions such as the FLUTTER action particularly enhance the appearance of the display object as a butterfly or the like since these types of actions are carried out by some butterflies while resting on a surface.

It will be noted that for each of the actions described above many of the parameters may have an acceptable range of values associated therewith. For any of those parameters the values may be randomly selected numbers as described above. It is optionally possible for the controller to change the acceptable range of values for the one or more of the parameters associated with any particular action . For example the controller may over time adjust the acceptable ranges of values for selected parameters for selected actions so that the display object becomes progressively less active over time. For example the range of values relating to the length of a REST action may gradually increase over time. For example initially the length of a REST action may be randomly selected from a range of 1 to 6 seconds. After 2 minutes of use of the system the range may be adjusted so that the length of a REST action may be randomly selected from a range of 2 to 7 seconds. After another two minutes the range may be adjusted again to between 3 and 8 seconds. It is also possible for the controller to adjust the acceptable ranges of selected parameters to make the display object progressively more active over time. For example the controller may be programmed to gradually increase the frequency of occurrences of FLY actions over time. Progressively changing the behaviour of the display object in some way as described herein can further increase the realism of the display object to the user .

Separately from randomly selecting values of parameters however the sequence of actions that are carried out by the controller may be selected randomly. For example the controller may select randomly between carrying out a FLY action a FLAP action a FLUTTER action and a REST action . In this way the behaviour of the display object is made to appear less predictable and therefore more autonomous. It will be noted however that even if the same action is selected to be carried out two or more times in succession each carrying out of the action can vary due to the random selection of the parameters associated therewith.

Referring to during movement of the fixedly connected wing movement may be generated in the rotatably attached wing . The extent to which this occurs depends at least in part on how the display object is positioned on the vessel wall . For example positional variables of the display object that can impact on the movement generated in the rotatably attached wing include whether the fixedly attached wing is vertically higher than or lower than the rotatably attached wing when the display object has landed at an angle or whether the display object is in an substantially upright position with both wings and at the same level. The rotatably connected wing can be made to move by some amount in the same direction as the fixedly connected wing in some circumstances if for example there is sufficient frictional engagement between the first and second hinge members and . It is optionally possible for the first and second hinge members and to be abraded along their mating surfaces so as to increase the frictional forces between them. Alternatively small teeth could be molded or otherwise provided on their mating surfaces to increase the frictional forces between them.

Additionally the rotatably attached wing may be made to move in the same direction as the fixedly attached wing as a result of being drawn in to the low pressure zone that may be created behind the fixedly attached wing during movement thereof. Alternatively the frictional force between them may be provided by virtue of material selection. For example the hinge members may be may made from a rubbery material that has a high coefficient of friction when mated to a similar material.

It is also optionally possible for the fixedly attached wing and the rotatably attached wing to be made to appear to counter rotate relative to each other. For example during a FLAP action or a FLUTTER action as the fixedly attached wing moves it creates a negative pressure zone behind it which can draw the rotatably attached wing towards it as noted above. However if the fixedly attached wing is moving at a relatively high speed as may be the case in a fast FLAP action or in a FLUTTER action it may complete its travel in a first direction and be returning in the opposite direction while momentum continues to carry the rotatably attached wing in the first direction. As a result at certain moments the fixedly attached wing and the rotatably attached wing may counter rotate relative to each other.

Thus movement may be generated in the rotatably attached wing that is at least to some degree independent of the movement of the movement of the fixedly connected wing and that is varied which further enhances the appearance of the display object as an autonomous winged entity without the additional expense associated with positively driving the rotatably connected wing .

The direction of rotation of the motor is preferably alternated with each subsequent action being executed thereby reducing the likelihood of the flexible shaft being over rotated in one direction and tangling. For example a first action to be carried out may be for example a FLY action . The FLY action may involve rotation of the motor by some selected amount in one particular direction such as a clockwise direction. The subsequent action to be carried out may be for example a FLAP action which may involve a reciprocation of the wings and back and forth for a selected number of cycles. The controller may be programmed to begin the first movement of the FLAP action by rotating the motor in the counter clockwise direction. In this hypothetical example the motor would reciprocate by some selected number of cycles and would end with a movement in the clockwise direction. The next action to be carried out may for example be another FLY action . Because the last movement of the motor was in the clockwise direction this second FLY action would be carried out by rotating the motor in the counter clockwise direction. Thus prior to the carrying out of any action except a REST action which does not involve rotation of the motor and except a YES type QUESTION action or a NO type QUESTION action the direction of rotation of the motor may always reverse from the last movement carried out.

Referring to the buttons may include a music button for selecting whether music or any other sounds are to be played from the audio output device a sleep button for alternately bringing the system into and out of a sleep mode and a light button for alternately turning on and off the light . Other buttons may include the love button the feed button the snooze button the dance button and the question button .

Referring to the slide switch may be used to control the operating mode of the system . The modes that may be selected may include ON with no sound ON with sound TRY ME a demonstration mode tailored for use while the item is on display in a store and OFF. It will be understood that selecting between ON with sound and ON without sound may be different than selecting whether music is played through the audio output device . For example there may be sounds that are outputted through the audio output device during use of the system which are not music. The slide switch may have any suitable form if one is provided. For example the slide switch could be a simple thumb or finger operated switch with a plurality of positions. Alternatively the lid could act as a slide switch and may be rotatable between a plurality of detented positions each position corresponding to a particular mode.

The light may be any suitable type of light such as an LED as noted above. The light may simply be used to illuminate the interior of the vessel . Additionally or alternatively the light may optionally cooperate with the colours on the display object to create a particular effect. For example the light may emit sufficient visible light to illuminate the interior of the vessel but may also emit a selected amount of ultra violet light and the display object may be provided with pigments that glow when exposed to ultraviolet light. Additionally the light may be controlled by the controller so as to be synchronized with the movement of the display object . For example the light may flash flicker dim and or brighten in coordination with movements taking place by the display object .

Referring to the tap input system receives input from the user in the form of taps by the user on the vessel and converts them to signals which are sent to the controller . The controller may be programmed to respond differently depending on the number of taps made by the user . For example if the user taps once on the vessel the controller may be programmed to immediately carry out a FLY action if the user taps twice on the vessel within some specified period of time between taps the controller may be programmed to immediately carry out a FLAP action if the user taps three times on the vessel within some specified period of time between taps the controller may be programmed to immediately carry out a FLUTTER action . By configuring the controller to interrupt whatever action is currently being carried out upon receiving input through the tap input system the appearance of communication between the user and the display object is created.

After an action that resulted from a tap input by the user is carried out the controller may carry out a REST action for a brief period such as 1 second before carrying out some other activity such as whatever action was interrupted by the tap input. This REST action gives the user time to enter another tap input on the vessel which will instruct the controller to carry out another user selected action . Thus the appearance of communication between the user and the display is further enhanced.

The use of a tap input system in particular over other forms of input system such as buttons further enhances the appearance of communication by the user with an autonomous winged entity such as a butterfly since tapping on the vessel would be a typical method by which a user would attempt to communicate with such an entity in the vessel . It is however alternatively possible for other types of input system to be used instead of the tap input system . For example a proximity sensor a photo sensor and or a touch sensor could be used as ways of permitting interaction between the user and the display object .

During certain actions such as a FLY action and a FLUTTER action it may be preferable to disable the tap input system because during these actions there may be significant amounts of knocking against the vessel wall from the display object itself which would potentially trip the vibration sensor . Additionally the tap input system may be disabled during carrying out of certain other actions such as those which are button activated such as the FEED LOVE SNOOZE DANCE and QUESTION actions and

Aside from reacting to tap inputs from the user the controller may normally operate the motor according to a sequence of actions stored in memory shown at in or according to a random sequence of actions as described above. The slide switch is provided to control which operating mode the system is in. For example the system may carry out a different sequence of actions when in the TRY ME mode than it does when in the ON with sound mode.

Referring to the system may optionally be provided with a tilt sensor that is configured to determine whether the vessel is tilted at too great an angle. The angle at which the vessel is tilted impacts the risk of the flexible shaft tangling during use. The tilt sensor may be any suitable kind of tilt sensor. The tilt sensor may act as another input device that sends a signal to the controller . The controller may be configured to respond to tripping of the tilt sensor by cutting off power to the motor .

Reference is made to which shows an alternative vessel that can be used with the system instead of the vessel . The vessel may differ from the vessel in several respects. For example the vessel may have a square shaped interior cross section when viewed from above. The vessel may resemble a typical glass canning jar. In the embodiment shown in the entire rotational drive system shown at is contained in the vessel lid shown at . Additionally all the sensors the battery and the controller are all contained in the vessel lid also. Preferably input means such as a slide switch would be integrated into the lid in a discrete way. For example the lid could be rotatable between a plurality of detented positions each serving a selected purpose as described above in relation to the lid . As a result the presence of the rotational drive system is further obscured since the user may assume that the lid is a typical lid on a typical glass canning jar.

Also shown in is an alternative display object . The display object is a butterfly which may be connected to the flexible shaft in any suitable way.

It has been shown in for the second wing to be fixedly attached to the flexible shaft . It will be understood that it is alternatively possible for the first wing to be the fixedly attached wing and for the second wing to be the rotatably attached wing.

The rotational drive system shown in includes the motor that is battery driven and that is controlled by the controller . It is optionally possible for the rotational drive system to also include some means for recharging the battery pack such as for example a solar energy collection system not shown .

It is alternatively possible for the rotational drive system to not be driven by an electric motor at all but instead to be driven by some mechanical alternative such as a spring driven rotary device not shown . The spring driven rotary device uses a spring to store and release energy and could be accompanied by a suitable mechanism by which the user can store energy in the spring eg. by means of a drawstring a wind up key or the like. The controller could still be used in this alternative embodiment for receiving input from the user controlling devices such as a speaker and an LED and could further be used to control the release of energy from the spring by some means such as by operating a solenoid to obstruct or permit the spring s movement.

As another alternative the motor may be a DC motor that is not a stepper motor. In such an embodiment the actions carried out by the motor could be effected using for example multiple gear sets that are positionally controlled using one or more solenoids a gear based transmission a belt drive or by any other suitable means.

The first and second wings and shown in are connected to each other in such a way as to be rotatable relative to each other about a common axis the axis of the flexible shaft . It is alternatively possible for the first and second wings and to each be rotatably connected to a body member for rotation about individual axes relative to the body member. Accordingly the first and second wings need not be rotatable about a common axis.

The first and second wings and shown in are distinct members that are physically separate from each other. It is alternatively possible for the first and second wings and to be integrally connected to each other while still being rotatable relative to each other. For example the first and second wings and could be formed from a single piece of a suitable material eg. a polymeric material. One or more bends in the material could act as a living hinge. The piece of material could be joined to the flexible shaft by some suitable means such as glue at a suitable location between the wings and and the free end of the flexible shaft could still be connected to one of the wings and such that that wing or is fixedly connected to the flexible shaft .

The system shown in includes a vessel in which the display object moves around. The vessel wall constitutes a landing surface for the display object . It is alternatively possible to provide a system not shown in which a vessel is not provided. Such a system could nonetheless include an upper member on which a motor or some other rotational drive system is mounted and could have a flexible shaft that extends downwardly from the motor. The display object could be connected to the flexible shaft in a similar way to the display object on the flexible shaft . The system preferably includes one or more landing surfaces for the display object to land on eg. when the motor is not rotating . The system is preferably configured so that the flexible shaft is kept out of its naturally straight orientation into a curved eg. a U shaped orientation by some means so that it urges the display object towards the one or more landing surfaces.

In another embodiment that is not shown the system may simultaneously display more than one display object . For example the system may include a vessel a rotational drive system including a motor and two flexible shafts each having a display object at the free end. The motor may be connectable by some transmission clutch means to one or to the other flexible shaft. Optionally the motor could be made strong enough to drive both flexible shafts simultaneously. Alternatively the system could include two separate motors each connected to one of the flexible shafts but both optionally being controlled by a common controller. Depending on among other things the likelihood of entanglement between the two or more display objects it is optionally possible in such an embodiment to have the one or more barriers in the vessel to prevent the display objects from entangling.

While the above description constitutes a plurality of embodiments of the present invention it will be appreciated that the present invention is susceptible to further modification and change without departing from the fair meaning of the accompanying claims.

