---

title: Methods for making nucleotide probes for sequencing and synthesis
abstract: Compositions and methods for making a plurality of probes for analyzing a plurality of nucleic acid samples are provided. Compositions and methods for analyzing a plurality of nucleic acid samples to obtain sequence information in each nucleic acid sample are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08771950&OS=08771950&RS=08771950
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 08771950
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080807
---
This application is a continuation of PCT application no. PCT US2007 003334 designating the United States and filed Feb. 7 2007 which claims the benefit U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 846 256 filed on Sep. 21 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 765 978 filed on Feb. 7 2006 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This application was funded in part by National Institutes of Health Grant No. HG03170 and Department of Energy Grant No. DE FG02 02ER63445. The government has certain rights to the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate in general to the use of molecular inversion probe technology in capture sequence methods and amplification methods.

Molecular Inversion Probe MIP technology is a high throughput genotyping technology capable of interrogating single nucleotide polymorphisms on a large scale. Methods of using molecular inversion probe technology in highly multiplexed genotyping of SNPs are known. See Hardenbol et al. . 2005 15 269 and Hardenbol et al. 2003 21 673. The use of molecular inversion probe technology in allele quantification is also known. See Wang et al. 2005 33 21 .

Generally MIP technology is directed to the use of a single oligonucleotide probe with recognition sequences at each terminus. The probe also includes a specific tag sequence that is ultimately read on a microarray and two PCR primers that face away from each other and therefore cannot facilitate amplification. The probe is hybridized with a genomic target sequence such that it forms a circular structure with the ends of the probe abutting. This leaves a single base gap at the location of a SNP. This gapped duplex is then tested in four separate reactions each with a single dNTP species present in which successful polymerization and ligation provides allelic differentiation. The probes are subsequently released from the genomic DNA and those that have been covalently circularized in the correct allele nucleotide reaction combination are amplified using a universal PCR primer pair. Each amplified probe contains a unique tag array referred to here as barcoding. Tags are selected to have a similar Tand base composition and to be maximally orthogonal in sequence complementarity. Amplicons are fluorescently labeled and the tag sequences released from the genome homology regions using a restriction endonuclease treatment. The tags are then detected using a complementary tag array.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of making large numbers of amplifiable oligonucleotide probes using microarray technology. The probes are useful in methods of capturing a single base multiples bases and or larger regions of DNA for amplification e.g. by emulsion PCR by methods including polymerized colony sequencing. In certain aspects of the invention probes include padlock probes rolling circle probes and or molecular inversion probes. According to a certain aspect of the invention a barcode sequence is used to uniquely tag each oligonucleotide sample from a patient so that a large number of loci in a large number of DNA samples can be analyzed in one or more polymerase colony sequencing runs. According to an alternate embodiment of the present invention a set of oligonucleotide probes once synthesized can repeatedly be used in unlimited applications through PCR amplification with universal primers. Alternatively amplification can also take place with locus specific primers that flank the region of interest especially when capturing genomic sequences from patient samples. Such a region of interest includes a specific target sequence that may be associated with a disease associated polymorphism. Embodiments of the present invention include capture of multiple markers using a set of primer pairs. Also when non specific DNA sequences are to be captured some randomization is desirable in the primer pool for example to amplify the same region from various homologs orthologs of a given gene in a subject patient.

In one embodiment a method of making a plurality of probes for analyzing a plurality of nucleic acid samples is provided. The method includes the steps of providing linear single stranded DNA encoding a plurality of probes wherein a probe includes two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe and two PCR primer regions common to all probes converting the linear single stranded DNA to circular DNA amplifying the circular DNA and releasing e.g. by digestion with a restriction endonuclease or a combination of uracil DNA glycosylase and DNA glycosylase lyase Endonuclease VIII the plurality of probes from the amplified DNA. In certain aspects the step of converting is performed using a DNA ligase that catalyzes intra molecular ligation of single stranded DNA or using a double stranded DNA ligase in the presence of an oligonucleotide sequence. In certain aspects one or more portions of the probe encode a bar code specific for a nucleic acid sample sequence. In other aspects the step of amplifying the circular DNA is performed by rolling circle amplification. In other aspects prior to the step of converting the linear single stranded DNA is amplified using Bst polymerase or Phi29 polymerase and or PCR. In other aspects prior to the step of converting the linear single stranded DNA is purified by size selection. In yet other aspects the plurality of nucleic acid samples are genomic DNA regions e.g. exons single nucleotide polymorphisms mutable regions and or highly conserved regions mRNA and or cDNA. In other aspects the linear single stranded DNA is synthesized on a DNA chip. In still other aspects the PCR primer regions are removed from the probes by digestion with a restriction endonuclease or a combination of uracil DNA glycosylase and DNA glycosylase lyase Endonuclease VIII.

In another embodiment a method of making a plurality of probes is provided including the steps of providing linear single stranded DNA encoding a plurality of probes wherein a probe includes two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe and two PCR primer regions common to all probes converting the linear single stranded DNA to circular DNA amplifying the circular DNA to form amplified double stranded circular DNA converting the amplified double stranded circular DNA to single stranded circular DNA and releasing the plurality of probes from the single stranded circular DNA. In certain aspects the step of releasing is performed by digestion with a restriction endonuclease. In other aspects the step of converting the linear single stranded DNA to circular DNA is performed using a DNA ligase that catalyzes intra molecular ligation of single stranded DNA and or using a double stranded DNA ligase in the presence of an oligonucleotide sequence. In other aspects one or more portions of the probe further encode a bar code specific for a nucleic acid sample sequence. In other aspects the step of amplifying the circular DNA is performed by rolling circle amplification. In yet other aspects prior to the step of converting the linear single stranded DNA is amplified using Bst polymerase or Phi29 polymerase and or by PCR. In other aspects prior to the step of converting the linear single stranded DNA is amplified by PCR. In other aspects prior to the step of converting the linear single stranded DNA is purified by size selection. In still other aspects the plurality of nucleic acid samples are genomic DNA regions e.g. exons single nucleotide polymorphisms mutable regions and or highly conserved regions mRNA and or cDNA. In certain aspects the linear single stranded DNA is synthesized on a DNA chip. In yet other aspects the PCR primer regions are removed from the probes by digestion with a restriction endonuclease or a combination of uracil DNA glycosylase and DNA glycosylase lyase Endonuclease VIII.

In another embodiment a method of making a renewable pool of probes for analyzing a plurality of nucleic acid samples is provided. The method includes the steps of providing a plurality of linear single stranded DNA probes wherein a probe includes two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at its ends two PCR primer regions common to all probes and a unique endonuclease recognition site converting the linear single stranded DNA to circular DNA amplifying the circular DNA by rolling circle amplification to form linear concatemers digesting the linear concatemers with an endonuclease in the presence of a guide oligonucleotide to form monomers and ligating the monomers to form a plurality of circular molecules complementary to either the plus strand or the minus strand of the circular DNA. In certain aspects the plurality of linear single stranded DNA probes are synthesized on a programmable DNA chip. In other aspects the renewable pool of probes is a renewable library.

In another embodiment a method of selectively capturing a plurality of genomic sequences is provided. The method includes the steps of providing a probe having two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe two common priming regions and a restriction endonuclease recognition site hybridizing the probe to immobilized genomic DNA such that the probe is hybridized in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the genomic DNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule. In certain aspects the genomic sequence is selected from the group consisting of exons single nucleotide polymorphisms mutable regions and highly conserved regions.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of genomic DNA samples to obtain sequence information at one or more loci in each genomic DNA sample is provided. The method includes the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes and a bar code specific for a locus hybridizing the probes to immobilized genomic DNA such that the probe is hybridized in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the genomic DNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule. In certain aspects the method further includes the step of digesting unligated products after the step of ligating and before the step of removing. In other aspects the method further includes the step of cleaving the amplified closed circular molecule. In certain aspects amplifying is performed by a method selected from the group consisting of PCR e.g. ePCR rolling circle amplification and hyper branched rolling circle amplification. In other aspects the PCR primer regions are ePCR primer regions. In other aspects the PCR primer regions further comprise a bar code specific for a patient. In still further aspects cleaving is performed by a restriction enzyme. In yet other aspects the one or more probes further comprise a universal detection tag sequence. In still further aspects the method also includes the step of polony amplification and or polony sequencing.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of genomic DNA samples to obtain sequence information at one or more loci in each genomic DNA sample is provided. The method includes the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes a bar code specific for a locus and a bar code specific for a patient contacting the probes with genomic DNA to hybridize the probe in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA covalently attaching the extension to the end of the probe in the presence of a ligase to produce a closed circular molecule and amplifying the circular molecule. In certain aspects amplifying is performed by PCR e.g. by ePCR . In other aspects the PCR primer regions are ePCR primer regions. In certain aspects cleaving is performed using a restriction enzyme. In other aspects the one or more probes further comprise a unique tag sequence. In still further aspects the method also includes the step of polony amplification and or polony sequencing.

In another embodiment a method for enriching a probe pool for analyzing a plurality of genomic DNA regions in a genomic DNA sample the method comprising the steps of providing a plurality of probes each having two regions of degenerate homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of each probe two PCR primer regions common to each probe and a bar code specific for a genomic DNA region hybridizing the probes to genomic DNA such that the probe is hybridized in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the genomic DNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule is provided. In certain aspects the plurality of genomic DNA regions are regions selected from the group consisting of exons single nucleotide polymorphisms mutable regions and highly conserved regions. In other aspects the step of digesting unligated products after the step of ligating and before the step of removing.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of mRNA samples to obtain allele specific quantitation at one or more alleles in each mRNA sample is provided. The method includes the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target mRNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes a bar code specific for an allele and a bar code specific for a patient contacting the probes with mRNA to hybridize the probe in a circular manner to complementary mRNA ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the mRNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of cDNA samples to obtain allele specific quantitation at one or more alleles in each cDNA sample is provided. The method includes the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target cDNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes a bar code specific for an allele and a bar code specific for a patient contacting the probes with cDNA to hybridize the probe in a circular manner to complementary cDNA ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule removing the closed circular molecule from the cDNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule.

In another embodiment a method of selectively capturing a plurality of genomic sequences is provided. The method includes the steps of providing a probe having two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe two common priming regions and a restriction endonuclease recognition site hybridizing the probe to immobilized genomic DNA such that the probe is hybridized in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA polymerizing the extension of the probe in the presence of dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP and a polymerase ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the genomic DNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule. In certain aspects the genomic sequence is selected from the group consisting of exons single nucleotide polymorphisms mutable regions and highly conserved regions.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of genomic DNA samples to obtain sequence information at one or more loci in each genomic DNA sample the method comprising the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes and a bar code specific for a locus hybridizing the probes to immobilized genomic DNA such that the probe is hybridized in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA with a one or more nucleotide gap between the ends of the circularized probe polymerizing the extension of the probe in the presence of dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP and a polymerase ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the genomic DNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule is provided. In certain aspects the method further includes the step of digesting unligated products after the step of ligating and before the step of removing. In other aspects the method further includes the step of cleaving the amplified closed circular molecule. In certain aspects amplifying is performed by a method selected from the group consisting of PCR e.g. ePCR rolling circle amplification and hyper branched rolling circle amplification. In other aspects the PCR primer regions are ePCR primer regions. In other aspects the PCR primer regions further comprise a bar code specific for a patient. In other aspects cleaving is performed by a restriction enzyme. In yet other aspects the one or more probes further comprise a universal detection tag sequence. In still further aspects the method also includes the step of polony amplification and or polony sequencing.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of genomic DNA samples to obtain sequence information at one or more loci in each genomic DNA sample the method comprising the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes a bar code specific for a locus and a bar code specific for a patient contacting the probes with genomic DNA to hybridize the probe in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA with a one or more nucleotide gap between the ends of the circularized probe polymerizing the extension of the probe in the presence of dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP and a polymerase covalently attaching the extension to the end of the probe in the presence of a ligase to produce a closed circular molecule and amplifying the circular molecule is provided. In certain aspects amplifying is performed by PCR e.g. by ePCR . In other aspects the PCR primer regions are ePCR primer regions. In still other aspects cleaving is performed using a restriction enzyme. In other aspects the one or more probes further comprise a unique tag sequence. In still further aspects the method also includes the step of polony amplification and or polony sequencing.

In another embodiment a method for enriching a probe pool for analyzing a plurality of genomic DNA regions in a genomic DNA sample the method comprising the steps of providing a plurality of probes each having two regions of degenerate homology to target genomic DNA at the ends of each probe two PCR primer regions common to each probe and a bar code specific for a genomic DNA region hybridizing the probes to genomic DNA such that the probe is hybridized in a circular manner to complementary genomic DNA with a one or more nucleotide gap between the ends of the circularized probe polymerizing the extension of the probe in the presence of dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP and a polymerase ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the genomic DNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule is provided. In certain aspects the plurality of genomic DNA regions are regions selected from the group consisting of exons single nucleotide polymorphisms mutable regions and highly conserved regions. In other aspects the method further includes the step of digesting unligated products after the step of ligating and before the step of removing.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of mRNA samples to obtain allele specific quantitation at one or more alleles in each mRNA sample the method comprising the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target mRNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes a bar code specific for an allele and a bar code specific for a patient contacting the probes with mRNA to hybridize the probe in a circular manner to complementary mRNA with a one or more nucleotide gap between the ends of the circularized probe polymerizing the extension of the probe in the presence of dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP and a polymerase ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule separating the closed circular molecule from the mRNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule is provided.

In another embodiment a method of analyzing a plurality of cDNA samples to obtain allele specific quantitation at one or more alleles in each cDNA sample the method comprising the steps of providing one or more probes having two regions of homology to target cDNA at the ends of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes a bar code specific for an allele and a bar code specific for a patient contacting the probes with cDNA to hybridize the probe in a circular manner to complementary cDNA with a one or more nucleotide gap between the ends of the circularized probe polymerizing the extension of the probe in the presence of dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP and a polymerase ligating the probe to produce a closed circular molecule removing the closed circular molecule from the cDNA and amplifying the closed circular molecule is provided.

Advantages of the embodiments of the present invention include efficiencies of economy and increases in the number of loci and samples analyzed simultaneously. Applications of the present invention extend to large scale SNP genotyping mutation discovery exon or other DNA sequence re sequencing e.g. of cancer genomic DNA quantification of allelic specific gene expression and analysis of synthetic genomes. Embodiments of the present invention also relate to multiplex circular probe formation for sequencing and or multiplex synthesis.

Further features and advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention will become more fully apparent in the following description of the embodiments and drawings thereof and from the claims.

The principles of the present invention may be applied with particular advantage in methods of generating large numbers of amplifiable oligonucleotide probes using molecular inversion probe technology. Probe designs having a fixed gap length of one nucleotide and using barcoding sequences according to the present invention allow simple single nucleotide polymorphism SNP assays to identify many SNPs for many patients in a single assay run. Probe designs having a gap length greater than one base and using barcoding sequences are also useful in SNP assays or other DNA assays in which it is desirable to capture longer target DNA sequences.

According to aspects of the present invention molecular inversion probes are used based on the methods described in Hardenbol . Vol. 21 No. 6. 6 Jun. 1993 Hardenbol et al. 2005 15 2 269 75 Fakhrai et al. 2003 21 6 673 and Wang et al. 2005 33 e183. For SNP detection a single probe is used to detect both alleles of each SNP. The probe includes two regions of homology to target genomic DNA located at the termini or end of the probe two PCR primer regions common to all probes one bar code specific for each locus and two common cleavage sites. According to the present invention the probe may also contain a barcode identifying each patient or other subject. A universal detection tag sequence is used for array detection of amplified probe. Cleavage sites are used to release the circularized probe from genomic DNA and for post amplification processing.

According to the present invention a mixture of genomic DNA a plurality of probes and thermostable ligase and polymerase is heat denatured and brought to annealing temperature. Two sequences targeting each terminus of the probe hybridize to complementary sites in the genomic DNA creating a circular conformation with a single nucleotide gap between the termini of the probe. According to an alternate embodiment the gap may be greater than one nucleotide. The genomic DNA is then split into four separate samples. Unlabeled dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP is added to each of four samples. In reactions where the added nucleotide is complementary to the single base gap DNA polymerase adds the nucleotide and DNA ligase closes the gap to form a covalently closed circular molecule that encircles the genomic strand to which it is hybridized. Exonucleases are added to digest linear probes in reactions where the added nucleotide was not complementary to the gap and excess linear probe in reactions where circular molecules were formed. The reactions are then heated to inactivate the exonucleases. To release probes from genomic DNA uracil N glycosylase is added to depurinate the uracil residues in the probes. The mixture is then heated to cleave the molecule at the abasic site and release it from genomic DNA. Alternatively the molecule can be removed from the genomic DNA through methods other than cleavage thereby leaving the molecule in its circular form. PCR reagents can then be added including a primer pair common to all probes or the hybridization primer sequences and their complements can be used in the amplification step. The reactions are then subjected to thermal cycling with the result that only probes circularized in the allele specific gap fill reaction are amplified. Rolling circle amplification when the probe remained circular may also be used with certain probe embodiments of the invention.

According to certain aspects of the present invention molecular inversion probes can be manufactured having gaps larger than one nucleotide and without extending the length of the molecular inversion probe. According to one aspect the single stranded regions of the MIP during ligation reaction are free to extend far beyond the usual 0.34 nm base and are free to rotate unlike perfect CCC. Alternatively very small DNA circles can be made according to the methods described in Bates et al. 1989 8 1861. According to the present invention smaller MIP probes aimed at large targets are believed to perform better in the range of 300 to 900 base pairs which is advantageous for exons and other conserved elements. Once the circular probes are ligated and non ligated material removed by exonuclease or other means then the circular probes can be amplified by PCR as described in Hardenbol supra and or by using isothermal strand displacement amplification.

One ePCR priming site is attached to an allele tag while the other ePCR priming site is attached to a patient tag. An SNP tag is shown as being optional. The two ends of the probe are hybridized to genomic DNA with a fixed gap length of one nucleotide. The gap length is filled by an appropriate nucleotide using standard extension reagents such as DNA polymerase and dATP dCTP dGTP or dTTP. The ends of the probe are then ligated using an appropriate DNA ligase. The probe is then amplified such as by using PCR to produce an amplicon for each allele per patient. Alternatively as shown in ePCR is used followed by polymerized colony sequencing referred to as polony sequencing. The method provides a very simple assay to assay millions of SNPs in hundreds of patients in one experimental run.

The experimental design shown in provides the advantages of very simple assays that can handle many e.g. on the order of millions of SNPs in hundreds of patients using a single assay. This experimental design further provides the advantage of the ability to use various gap lengths. Two probes are used for each loci. The specificity for the experimental design shown in may not be as high as for the experimental design shown in and the variant site is not queried directly.

According to one aspect of the present invention methods are provided whereby tags are separate from the point of ligation in the probe. A different tag or pair of tags is provided for each combination of location in the genome and allele. Allele detection is accomplished either 1 by making the ligation dependent on the efficient polymerase filling in with one specific dNTP in the gap as described by Hardenbol cited previously or filling in the gap with multiple dNTPs if the gap is larger than one base or 2 by utilizing the specificity of the ligation reaction itself. According to one embodiment multiple DNA sources per amplification and sequencing pool are provided. After the gap filling step a type IIS endonuclease cut guided from a binding site as close as possible to the filled gap is ligated to a known sequence tag which can contain base pairs which identify the sample e.g. the patient with at least 1 bp per each 4 samples. More than 1 bp per 4 samples can be used if error reduction via redundant encoding is desired. Alternatively separate MIP pools can be made with different tags built in. This provides the advantage of saving the type IIS cleavage and bimolecular ligation steps but also requires more pools of MIP single stranded DNA.

An alternate embodiment of the present invention is directed to enriching probe pools for shotgun sequencing. Various regions around the genome e.g. exons SNPs mutable regions like CGs and or highly conserved regions are amplified. A large pool of these amplified regions is released from the MIP backbone part of the circular probes by type IIS restriction enzymes or dU or rU methods. Preferably for this method some degree of degeneracy or randomness in the primer sequences is advantageous.

A further alternate embodiment of the present invention includes shareable probe pools. According to this aspect large quantities and diverse numbers of MIP probes on oligonucleotide chips e.g. Agilent are made and in a way that is poolable amplifiable and hence easily shared . Each MIP oligo is flanked by universal oligos for amplification which can be removed. The following approaches are used to isolate the appropriate strand of the double stranded PCR products as well as to remove the universal primer regions mentioned above. 1 using one or more 3 phosphothioate nucleotides on one of the two primers 2 using exonucleases sensitive to 3 or 5 overhang or lack thereof . One primer has one or more dU and can be removed by USER which is a mixture of uracil DNA glycosylase and DNA glycosylase lyase Endonuclease VIII then the other primer has rU which can be cleaved by alkali. 3 using solid phase immobilization e.g. magnetic bead streptavidin of one primer with selective release of the other strand using alkali or heat to melt the base pairs. 4 using asymmetric PCR using an excess of the desired strand s primer and 5 using separation by size and or electrophoretic differences of the two strands by engineering the oligos to have different lengths either by use of the rU or dU methods or 2 O methyl groups to block PCR extension beyond the 2 Ome.

Embodiments of the present invention are useful in analyzing RNA for allele specific quantitation. The above methods when applied to RNA have the advantages of maintaining any differences in ratio between the two allelic RNA levels Yan et al. 2002 297 1143 while evening out the huge difference in RNA levels in going from gene to gene effectively normalizing to the plateau levels set by the levels of the input MIP single stranded DNA.

Embodiments of the present invention also find particular application to synthetic genes and genomes for example to assist in synthetic multiplexing in amplification error correction and or assembly as described by Tian et al. 2004 432 1050.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to the use of MIP technology with polony sequencing technology or synthetic genomic technology. Polony technology is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 432 360 6 485 944 and 6 511 803 and PCT US05 06425. In general the term polony refers to polymerized colony. Polony technology relates to the amplification of nucleic acids. In general a pool of nucleic acids is provided preferably in an array where the nucleic acids are immobilized to a support. The nucleic acids are randomly patterned on the support. The nucleic acids are then amplified in situ to produce colonies of polymerized nucleic acids. Polony amplification can also take place on beads where a nucleic acid is attached to a bead and then polymerized in situ.

There are many hybridization based assays that comprise a hybridization step that forms a structure or complex with a target polynucleotide such as a fragment of genomic DNA and an enzymatic processing step in which one or more enzymes either recognize such structure or complex as a substrate or are prevented from recognizing a substrate because it is protected by such structure or complex. In particular such assays are widely used in multiplexed formats to simultaneously analyze DNA samples at multiple loci e.g. allele specific multiplex PCR arrayed primer extension APEX technology solution phase primer extension or ligation assays and the like described in the following exemplary references Syvanen Supplement 37 S5 S10 2005 Shumaker et al. 7 346 354 1996 Huang et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 709 816 and 6 287 778 Fan et al. U.S. patent publication 2003 0003490 Gunderson et al. U.S. patent publication 2005 0037393 Hardenbol et al. 21 673 678 2003 Nilsson et al. 265 2085 2088 1994 Baner et al. 26 5073 5078 1998 Lizardi et al. 19 225 232 1998 Gerry et al. 292 251 262 1999 Fan et al. 10 853 860 2000 International patent publications WO 2002 57491 and WO 2000 58516 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 506 594 and 4 883 750 and the like.

In one aspect hybridization based assays include circularizing probes such as padlock probes rolling circle probes molecular inversion probes linear amplification molecules for multiplexed PCR and the like e.g. padlock probes being disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 871 921 6 235 472 5 866 337 and Japanese patent JP. 4 262799 rolling circle probes being disclosed in Aono et al. JP 4 262799 Lizardi U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 854 033 6 183 960 6 344 239 molecular inversion probes being disclosed in Hardenbol et al. supra and in Willis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 858 412 and linear amplification molecules being disclosed in Faham et al. U.S. patent publication 2003 0104459. Such probes are desirable because non circularized probes can be digested with single stranded exonucleases thereby greatly reducing background noise due to spurious amplifications and the like. In the case of molecular inversion probes MIPs padlock probes and rolling circle probes constructs for generating labeled target sequences are formed by circularizing a linear version of the probe in a template driven reaction on a target polynucleotide followed by digestion of non circularized polynucleotides in the reaction mixture such as target polynucleotides unligated probe probe concatemers and the like with an exonuclease such as exonuclease I.

Methods of conducting multiplexed hybridization based assays using microarrays and like platforms suitable for the present invention are well known in the art. Guidance for selecting conditions and materials for applying labeled sequences to solid phase supports such as microarrays may be found in the literature e.g. Wetmur 26 227 259 1991 DeRisi et al. 278 680 686 1997 Chee et al. 274 610 614 1996 Duggan et al. 21 10 14 1999 Schena Editor IRL Press Washington 2000 Freeman et al. 29 1042 1055 2000 and like references. Methods and apparatus for carrying out repeated and controlled hybridization reactions have been described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 871 928 5 874 219 6 045 996 and 6 386 749 6 391 623. Hybridization conditions typically include salt concentrations of less than about IM more usually less than about 500 mM and less than about 200 mM. Hybridization temperatures can be as low as 5 C. but are typically greater than 22 C. more typically greater than about 30 C. and preferably in excess of about 37 C. Hybridizations are usually performed under stringent conditions i.e. conditions under which a probe will stably hybridize to a perfectly complementary target sequence but will not stably hybridize to sequences that have one or more mismatches. The stringency of hybridization conditions depends on several factors such as probe sequence probe length temperature salt concentration concentration of organic solvents such as formamide and the like. How such factors are selected is usually a matter of design choice to one of ordinary skill in the art for any particular embodiment. Usually stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 C. lower than the Tfor the specific sequence for particular ionic strength and pH. Exemplary hybridization conditions include salt concentration of at least 0.01 M to about 1 M Na ion concentration or other salts at a pH 7.0 to 8.3 and a temperature of at least 25 C. Additional exemplary hybridization conditions include the following 5 SSPE 750 mM NaCl 50 mM sodium phosphate 5 mM EDTA pH 7.4 .

Exemplary hybridization procedures for applying labeled target sequence to a GENFLEX microarray Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. is as follows denatured labeled target sequence at 95 100 C. for 10 minutes and snap cool on ice for 2 5 minutes. The microarray is pre hybridized with 6 SSPE T 0.9 M NaCl 60 mM NaH PO 6 mM EDTA pH 7.4 0.005 Triton X 100 0.5 mg ml of BSA for a few minutes then hybridized with 120 L hybridization solution as described below at 42 C. for 2 hours on a rotisserie at 40 RPM. Hybridization Solution consists of 3M TMACL tetramethylammonium chloride 50 mM MES 2 N Morpholino ethanesulfonic acid Sodium Salt pH 6.7 0.01 of Triton X 100 0.1 mg ml of herring sperm DNA optionally 50 pM of fluorescein labeled control oligonucleotide 0.5 mg ml of BSA Sigma and labeled target sequences in a total reaction volume of about 120 L. The microarray is rinsed twice with 1 SSPE T for about 10 seconds at room temperature then washed with 1 SSPE T for 15 20 minutes at 40 C. on a rotisserie at 40 RPM. The microarray is then washed 10 times with 6 SSPE T at 22 C. on a fluidic station e.g. model FS400 Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. . Further processing steps may be required depending on the nature of the label s employed e.g. direct or indirect. Microarrays containing labeled target sequences may be scanned on a confocal scanner such as available commercially from Affymetrix with a resolution of 60 70 pixels per feature and filters and other settings as appropriate for the labels employed. GENECHIP Affymetrix or similar software may be used to convert the image files into digitized files for further data analysis.

Samples or specimens containing target polynucleotides such as fragments of genomic DNA may come from a wide variety of sources for use with the present invention including but not limited to cell cultures animal or plant tissues patient biopsies environmental samples and the like. Samples are prepared for assays of the invention using conventional techniques which typically depend on the source from which a sample or specimen is taken.

Prior to carrying out reactions on a sample it will often be desirable to perform one or more ample preparation operations upon the sample. Typically these sample preparation operations will include such manipulations as extraction of intracellular material e.g. nucleic acids from whole cell samples viruses and the like.

For those embodiments where whole cells viruses or other tissue samples are being analyzed it will typically be necessary to extract the nucleic acids from the cells or viruses prior to continuing with the various sample preparation operations. Accordingly following sample collection nucleic acids may be liberated from the collected cells viral coat etc. into a crude extract followed by additional treatments to prepare the sample for subsequent operations e.g. denaturation of contaminating DNA binding proteins purification filtration desalting and the like. Liberation of nucleic acids from the sample cells or viruses and denaturation of DNA binding proteins may generally be performed by chemical physical or electrolytic lysis methods. For example chemical methods generally employ lysing agents to disrupt the cells and extract the nucleic acids from the cells followed by treatment of the extract with chaotropic salts such as guanidinium isothiocyanate or urea to denature any contaminating and potentially interfering proteins. Generally where chemical extraction and or denaturation methods are used the appropriate reagents may be incorporated within a sample preparation chamber a separate accessible chamber or may be externally introduced.

Following extraction it will often be desirable to separate the nucleic acids from other elements of the crude extract e.g. denatured proteins cell membrane particles salts and the like. Removal of particulate matter is generally accomplished by filtration flocculation or the like. A variety of filter types may be readily incorporated into the device. Further where chemical denaturing methods are used it may be desirable to desalt the sample prior to proceeding to the next step. Desalting of the sample and isolation of the nucleic acid may generally be carried out in a single step e.g. by binding the nucleic acids to a solid phase and washing away the contaminating salts or performing gel filtration chromatography on the sample passing salts through dialysis membranes and the like. Suitable solid supports for nucleic acid binding include e.g. diatomaceous earth silica i.e. glass wool or the like. Suitable gel exclusion media also well known in the art may also be readily incorporated into the devices of the present invention and is commercially available from e.g. Pharmacia and Sigma Chemical.

In some applications such as measuring target polynucleotides in rare cells from a patient s blood an enrichment step may be carried out prior to conducting an assay such as by immunomagnetic isolation fluorescent cell sorting or other such technique. Such isolation or enrichment may be carried out using a variety of techniques and materials known in the art as disclosed in the following representative references Terstappen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 365 362 Terstappen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 646 001 Rohr et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 998 224 Kausch et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 665 582 Kresse et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 048 515 Kausch et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 508 164 Miltenyi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 691 208 Molday U.S. Pat. No. 4 452 773 Kronick U.S. Pat. No. 4 375 407 Radbruch et al. 23 in Vol. 42 Academic Press New York 1994 Uhlen et al. Eaton Publishing Natick 1994 Safarik et al. 722 33 53 1999 Miltenyi et al. 11 231 238 1990 Nakamura et al. 17 1145 1155 2001 Moreno et al. 58 386 392 2001 Racila et al. 95 4589 4594 1998 Zigeuner et al. 169 701 705 2003 Ghossein et al. 20 304 311 2001 .

In one aspect genomic DNA for analysis is obtained using standard commercially available DNA extraction kits e.g. PUREGENE DNA Isolation Kit Gentra Systems Minneapolis Minn. . In another aspect for assaying human genomic DNA with a multiplex hybridization based assay containing from about 1000 to 50 000 probes a DNA sample may be used having an amount within the range of from about 200 ng to about 1 microgram. When sample material is scarce prior to assaying sample DNA may be amplified by whole genome amplification or like technique to increase the total amount of DNA available for assaying. Several whole genome or partial genome amplification techniques are known in the art such as the following Telenius et al. 1992 13 718 Cheung et al. 1996 93 14676 Dean et al. 2001 11 1095 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 124 120 6 280 949 6 617 137 and the like.

Terms and symbols of nucleic acid chemistry biochemistry genetics and molecular biology used herein follow those of standard treatises and texts in the field e.g. Komberg and Baker DNA Replication Second Edition W.H. Freeman New York 1992 Lehninger Second Edition Worth Publishers New York 1975 Strachan and Read Second Edition Wiley Liss New York 1999 Eckstein editor Oxford University Press New York 1991 Gait editor IRL Press Oxford 1984 and the like.

 Addressable or addressed in reference to tag complements means that the nucleotide sequence or perhaps other physical or chemical characteristics of a tag complement can be determined from its address i.e. a one to one correspondence between the sequence or other property of the tag complement and a spatial location on or characteristic of the solid phase support to which it is attached. In certain aspects an address of a tag complement is a spatial location e.g. the planar coordinates of a particular region containing copies of the tag complement. In other embodiments probes may be addressed in other ways e.g. by microparticle size shape color color ratio or fluorescent ratio radio frequency of micro transponder or the like e.g. Kettman et al. 1998 33 234 Xu et al. 2003 31 e43 Bruchez Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 500 622 Mandecki U.S. Pat. No. 6 376 187 Stuelpnagel et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 396 995 Chee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 732 Chandler et al. PCT publication WO 97 14028 and the like. According to the present invention such terms also may refer to a nucleotide sequence that specifically identifies DNA or RNA sequences as having been captured from a given patient or other subject.

 Amplicon means the product of a polynucleotide amplification reaction. That is it is a population of polynucleotides usually double stranded that are replicated from one or more starting sequences. The one or more starting sequences may be one or more copies of the same sequence or it may be a mixture of different sequences. Amplicons may be produced by a variety of amplification reactions whose products are multiple replicates of one or more target nucleic acids. Generally amplification reactions producing amplicons are template driven in that base pairing of reactants either nucleotides or oligonucleotides have complements in a template polynucleotide that are required for the creation of reaction products. In one aspect template driven reactions are primer extensions with a nucleic acid polymerase or oligonucleotide ligations with a nucleic acid ligase. Such reactions include but are not limited to polymerase chain reaction PCR linear polymerase reactions nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA rolling circle amplifications and the like disclosed in the following references Mullis et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 965 188 4 683 202 4 800 159 PCR Gelfand et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 210 015 real time PCR with Taqman probes Wittwer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 174 670 Kacian et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 491 NASBA Lizardi U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 033 Aono et al. Japanese Patent Pub. JP 4 262799 rolling circle amplification and the like. In one aspect amplicons of the invention are produced by PCR. An amplification reaction may be a real time amplification if a detection chemistry is available that permits a reaction product to be measured as the amplification reaction progresses e.g. real time PCR described below or real time NASBA as described in Leone et al. 1998 26 2150 and like references. As used herein the term amplifying means performing an amplification reaction. A reaction mixture means a solution containing all the necessary reactants for performing a reaction which may include but not be limited to buffering agents to maintain pH at a selected level during a reaction salts co factors scavengers and the like. Methods of polony amplification are also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 360 U.S. Pat. No. 6 511 803 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 485 944.

 Complementary or substantially complementary refers to the hybridization or base pairing or the formation of a duplex between nucleotides or nucleic acids such as for instance between the two strands of a double stranded DNA molecule or between an oligonucleotide primer and a primer binding site on a single stranded nucleic acid. Complementary nucleotides are generally A and T or A and U or C and G. Two single stranded RNA or DNA molecules are said to be substantially complementary when the nucleotides of one strand optimally aligned and compared and with appropriate nucleotide insertions or deletions pair with at least about 80 of the nucleotides of the other strand usually at least about 90 to 95 and more preferably from about 98 to 100 . Alternatively substantial complementarity exists when an RNA or DNA strand will hybridize under selective hybridization conditions to its complement. Typically selective hybridization will occur when there is at least about 65 complementary over a stretch of at least 14 to 25 nucleotides preferably at least about 75 more preferably at least about 90 complementary. See Kanehisa 1984 12 203. According to the present invention useful MIP primer sequences hybridize to sequences that flank the nucleotide base or series of bases to be captured.

 Complex means an assemblage or aggregate of molecules in direct or indirect contact with one another. In one aspect contact or more particularly direct contact in reference to a complex of molecules or in reference to specificity or specific binding means two or more molecules are close enough so that attractive noncovalent interactions such as van der Waal forces hydrogen bonding ionic and hydrophobic interactions and the like dominate the interaction of the molecules. In such an aspect a complex of molecules is stable in that under assay conditions the complex is thermodynamically more favorable than a non aggregated or non complexed state of its component molecules. As used herein complex refers to a duplex or triplex of polynucleotides or a stable aggregate of two or more proteins. In regard to the latter a complex is formed by an antibody specifically binding to its corresponding antigen.

 Duplex means at least two oligonucleotides and or polynucleotides that are fully or partially complementary undergo Watson Crick type base pairing among all or most of their nucleotides so that a stable complex is formed. The terms annealing and hybridization are used interchangeably to mean the formation of a stable duplex. In one aspect stable duplex means that a duplex structure is not destroyed by a stringent wash e.g. conditions including temperature of about 5 C. less that the Tof a strand of the duplex and low monovalent salt concentration e.g. less than 0.2 M or less than 0.1 M. Perfectly matched in reference to a duplex means that the polynucleotide or oligonucleotide strands making up the duplex form a double stranded structure with one another such that every nucleotide in each strand undergoes Watson Crick base pairing with a nucleotide in the other strand. The term duplex comprehends the pairing of nucleoside analogs such as deoxyinosine nucleosides with 2 aminopurine bases PNAs and the like that may be employed. A mismatch in a duplex between two oligonucleotides or polynucleotides means that a pair of nucleotides in the duplex fails to undergo Watson Crick bonding.

 Genetic locus or locus in reference to a genome or target polynucleotide means a contiguous subregion or segment of the genome or target polynucleotide. As used herein genetic locus or locus may refer to the position of a nucleotide a gene or a portion of a gene in a genome including mitochondrial DNA or it may refer to any contiguous portion of genomic sequence whether or not it is within or associated with a gene. In one aspect a genetic locus refers to any portion of genomic sequence including mitochondrial DNA from a single nucleotide to a segment of few hundred nucleotides e.g. 100 300 in length. Usually a particular genetic locus may be identified by its nucleotide sequence or the nucleotide sequence or sequences of one or both adjacent or flanking regions. In another aspect a genetic locus refers to the expressed nucleic acid product of a gene such as an RNA molecule or a cDNA copy thereof.

 Hybridization refers to the process in which two single stranded polynucleotides bind non covalently to form a stable double stranded polynucleotide. The term hybridization may also refer to triple stranded hybridization. The resulting usually double stranded polynucleotide is a hybrid or duplex. Hybridization conditions will typically include salt concentrations of less than about 1 M more usually less than about 500 mM and even more usually less than about 200 mM. Hybridization temperatures can be as low as 5 C. but are typically greater than 22 C. more typically greater than about 30 C. and often in excess of about 37 C. Hybridizations are usually performed under stringent conditions i.e. conditions under which a probe will hybridize to its target subsequence. Stringent conditions are sequence dependent and are different in different circumstances. Longer fragments may require higher hybridization temperatures for specific hybridization. As other factors may affect the stringency of hybridization including base composition and length of the complementary strands presence of organic solvents and extent of base mismatching the combination of parameters is more important than the absolute measure of any one alone. Generally stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 C. lower than the Tfor the specific sequence at s defined ionic strength and pH. Exemplary stringent conditions include salt concentration of at least 0.01 M to no more than 1 M Na ion concentration or other salts at a pH 7.0 to 8.3 and a temperature of at least 25 C. For example conditions of 5 SSPE 750 mM NaCl 50 mM Na phosphate 5 mM EDTA pH 7.4 and a temperature of 25 30 C. are suitable for allele specific probe hybridizations. For stringent conditions see for example Sambrook Fritsche and Maniatis 2nd Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Press 1989 and Anderson 1Ed. BIOS Scientific Publishers Limited 1999 . Hybridizing specifically to or specifically hybridizing to or like expressions refer to the binding duplexing or hybridizing of a molecule substantially to or only to a particular nucleotide sequence or sequences under stringent conditions when that sequence is present in a complex mixture e.g. total cellular DNA or RNA.

 Hybridization based assay means any assay that relies on the formation of a stable complex as the result of a specific binding event. In one aspect a hybridization based assay means any assay that relies on the formation of a stable duplex or triplex between a probe and a target nucleotide sequence for detecting or measuring such a sequence. In one aspect probes of such assays anneal to or form duplexes with regions of target sequences in the range of from 8 to 100 nucleotides or in other aspects they anneal to target sequences in the range of from 8 to 40 nucleotides or more usually in the range of from 8 to 20 nucleotides. A probe in reference to a hybridization based assay means a polynucleotide that has a sequence that is capable of forming a stable hybrid or triplex with its complement in a target nucleic acid and that is capable of being detected either directly or indirectly. Hybridization based assays include without limitation assays that use the specific base pairing of one or more oligonucleotides as target recognition components such as polymerase chain reactions NASBA reactions oligonucleotide ligation reactions single base extension reactions circularizable probe reactions allele specific oligonucleotide hybridizations either in solution phase or bound to solid phase supports such as microarrays or microbeads and the like. An important subset of hybridization based assays include such assays that have at least one enzymatic processing step after a hybridization step. Hybridization based assays of this subset include without limitation polymerase chain reactions NASBA reactions oligonucleotide ligation reactions cleavase reactions e.g. in INVADER assays single base extension reactions probe circularization reactions and the like. There is extensive guidance in the literature on hybridization based assays e.g. Hames et al. editors IRL Press Oxford 1985 Tijssen Parts I II Elsevier Publishing Company 1993 Hardiman DNA Press 2003 Schena editor IRL Press Oxford 1999 and the like. In one aspect hybridization based assays are solution phase assays that is both probes and target sequences hybridize under conditions that are substantially free of surface effects or influences on reaction rate. A solution phase assay includes circumstances where either probes or target sequences are attached to microbeads such that the attached sequences have substantially the same environment e.g. permitting reagent access etc. as free sequences. In another aspect hybridization based assays include immunoassays wherein antibodies employ nucleic acid reporters based on amplification. In such assays antibody probes specifically bind to target molecules such as proteins in separate reactions after which the products of such reactions i.e. antibody protein complexes are combined and nucleic acid reporters are amplified. Preferably such nucleic acid reporters include oligonucleotide tags that are converted enzymatically into labeled oligonucleotide tags for analysis on a microarray as described below. The following exemplary references disclose antibody nucleic acid conjugates for immunoassays Baez et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 511 809 Sano et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 665 539 Eberwine et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 922 553 Landegren et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 558 928 Landegren et al. U.S. Patent Pub. 2002 0064779 and the like. In particular the two latter patent publications by Landegren et al. disclose steps of forming amplifiable probes after a specific binding event.

 Kit refers to any delivery system for delivering materials or reagents for carrying out a method of the invention. In the context of assays such delivery systems include systems that allow for the storage transport or delivery of reaction reagents e.g. probes enzymes etc. in the appropriate containers and or supporting materials e.g. buffers written instructions for performing the assay etc. from one location to another. For example kits include one or more enclosures e.g. boxes containing the relevant reaction reagents and or supporting materials for assays of the invention. In one aspect kits of the invention comprise probes specific for polymorphic loci. In another aspect kits comprise nucleic acid standards for validating the performance of probes specific for polymorphic loci. Such contents may be delivered to the intended recipient together or separately. For example a first container may contain an enzyme for use in an assay while a second container contains probes.

 Ligation means to form a covalent bond or linkage between the termini of two or more nucleic acids e.g. oligonucleotides and or polynucleotides in a template driven reaction. The nature of the bond or linkage may vary widely and the ligation may be carried out enzymatically or chemically. As used herein ligations are usually carried out enzymatically to form a phosphodiester linkage between a 5 carbon of a terminal nucleotide of one oligonucleotide with 3 carbon of another oligonucleotide. A variety of template driven ligation reactions are described in the following references Whitely et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 883 750 Letsinger et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 476 930 Fung et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 593 826 Kool U.S. Pat. No. 5 426 180 Landegren et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 871 921 Xu and Kool 1999 27 875 Higgins et al. . 1979 68 50 Engler et al. 1982 15 3 1982 and Namsaraev U.S. Patent Pub. 2004 0110213.

 Microarray refers in one embodiment to a type of multiplex assay product that comprises a solid phase support having a substantially planar surface on which there is an array of spatially defined non overlapping regions or sites that each contain an immobilized hybridization probe. Substantially planar means that features or objects of interest such as probe sites on a surface may occupy a volume that extends above or below a surface and whose dimensions are small relative to the dimensions of the surface. For example beads disposed on the face of a fiber optic bundle create a substantially planar surface of probe sites or oligonucleotides disposed or synthesized on a porous planar substrate creates a substantially planar surface. Spatially defined sites may additionally be addressable in that its location and the identity of the immobilized probe at that location are known or determinable. Probes immobilized on microarrays include nucleic acids such as oligonucleotide barcodes that are generated in or from an assay reaction. Typically the oligonucleotides or polynucleotides on microarrays are single stranded and are covalently attached to the solid phase support usually by a 5 end or a 3 end. The density of non overlapping regions containing nucleic acids in a microarray is typically greater than 100 per cm and more preferably greater than 1000 per cm. Microarray technology relating to nucleic acid probes is reviewed in the following exemplary references Schena Editor IRL Press Oxford 2000 Southern 2 404 410 1998 Supplement 21 1 60 1999 and Fodor et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 424 186 5 445 934 and 5 744 305. A microarray may comprise arrays of microbeads or other microparticles alone or disposed on a planar surface or in wells or other physical configurations that can be sued to separate the beads. Such microarrays may be formed in a variety of ways as disclosed in the following exemplary references Brenner et al. 2000 18 630 Tulley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 043 Stuelpnagel et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 396 995 Chee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 732 and the like. In one format microarrays are formed by randomly disposing microbeads having attached oligonucleotides on a surface followed by determination of which microbead carries which oligonucleotide by a decoding procedure e.g. as disclosed by Gunderson et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 2003 0096239.

 Microarrays or arrays can also refer to a heterogeneous pool of nucleic acid molecules that is distributed over a support matrix. The nucleic acids can be covalently or noncovalently attached to the support. Preferably the nucleic acid molecules are spaced at a distance from one another sufficient to permit the identification of discrete features of the array. Nucleic acids on the array may be non overlapping or partially overlapping. Methods of transferring a nucleic acid pool to support media is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 360. Bead based methods useful in the present invention are disclosed in PCT US05 04373.

 Amplifying includes the production of copies of a nucleic acid molecule of the array or a nucleic acid molecule bound to a bead via repeated rounds of primed enzymatic synthesis. In situ amplification indicated that the amplification takes place with the template nucleic acid molecule positioned on a support or a bead rather than in solution. In situ amplification methods are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 360.

 Support can refer to a matrix upon which nucleic acid molecules of a nucleic acid array are placed. The support can be solid or semi solid or a gel. Semi solid refers to a compressible matrix with both a solid and a liquid component wherein the liquid occupies pores spaces or other interstices between the solid matrix elements. Semi solid supports can be selected from polyacrylamide cellulose polyamide nylon and crossed linked agarose dextran and polyethylene glycol.

 Randomly patterned or random refers to non ordered non Cartesian distribution in other words not arranged at pre determined points along the x or y axes of a grid or at defined clock positions degrees or radii from the center of a radial pattern of nucleic acid molecules over a support that is not achieved through an intentional design or program by which such design may be achieved or by placement of individual nucleic acid features. Such a randomly patterned or random array of nucleic acids may be achieved by dropping spraying plating or spreading a solution emulsion aerosol vapor or dry preparation comprising a pool of nucleic acid molecules onto a support and allowing the nucleic acid molecules to settle onto the support without intervention in any manner to direct them to specific sites thereon. Arrays of the invention can be randomly patterned or random.

 Heterogeneous refers to a population or collection of nucleic acid molecules that comprises a plurality of different sequences. According to one aspect a heterogeneous pool of nucleic acid molecules results from a preparation of RNA or DNA from a cell which may be unfractionated or partially fractionated.

 Nucleoside as used herein includes the natural nucleosides including 2 deoxy and 2 hydroxyl forms e.g. as described in Komberg and Baker 2nd Ed. Freeman San Francisco 1992 . Analogs in reference to nucleosides includes synthetic nucleosides having modified base moieties and or modified sugar moieties e.g. described by Scheit John Wiley New York 1980 Uhlman and Peyman 90 543 584 1990 or the like with the proviso that they are capable of specific hybridization. Such analogs include synthetic nucleosides designed to enhance binding properties reduce complexity increase specificity and the like. Polynucleotides comprising analogs with enhanced hybridization or nuclease resistance properties are described in Uhlman and Peyman cited above Crooke et al. 6 855 870 1996 Mesmaeker et al. 5 343 355 1995 and the like. Exemplary types of polynucleotides that are capable of enhancing duplex stability include oligonucleotide phosphoramidates referred to herein as amidates peptide nucleic acids referred to herein as PNAs oligo 2 O alkylribonucleotides polynucleotides containing C 5 propynylpyrimidines locked nucleic acids LNAs and like compounds. Such oligonucleotides are either available commercially or may be synthesized using methods described in the literature.

 Oligonucleotide or polynucleotide which are used synonymously means a linear polymer of natural or modified nucleosidic monomers linked by phosphodiester bonds or analogs thereof. The term oligonucleotide usually refers to a shorter polymer e.g. comprising from about 3 to about 100 monomers and the term polynucleotide usually refers to longer polymers e.g. comprising from about 100 monomers to many thousands of monomers e.g. 10 000 monomers or more. Oligonucleotides comprising probes or primers usually have lengths in the range of from 12 to 60 nucleotides and more usually from 18 to 40 nucleotides. Oligonucleotides and polynucleotides may be natural or synthetic. Oligonucleotides and polynucleotides include deoxyribonucleosides ribonucleosides and non natural analogs thereof such as anomeric forms thereof peptide nucleic acids PNAs and the like provided that they are capable of specifically binding to a target genome by way of a regular pattern of monomer to monomer interactions such as Watson Crick type of base pairing base stacking Hoogsteen or reverse Hoogsteen types of base pairing or the like.

Usually nucleosidic monomers are linked by phosphodiester bonds. Whenever an oligonucleotide is represented by a sequence of letters such as ATGCCTG it will be understood that the nucleotides are in 5 to 3 order from left to right and that A denotes deoxyadenosine C denotes deoxycytidine G denotes deoxyguanosine T denotes deoxythymidine and U denotes the ribonucleoside uridine unless otherwise noted. Usually oligonucleotides comprise the four natural deoxynucleotides however they may also comprise ribonucleosides or non natural nucleotide analogs. It is clear to those skilled in the art when oligonucleotides having natural or non natural nucleotides may be employed in methods and processes described herein. For example where processing by an enzyme is called for usually oligonucleotides consisting solely of natural nucleotides are required. Likewise where an enzyme has specific oligonucleotide or polynucleotide substrate requirements for activity e.g. single stranded DNA RNA DNA duplex or the like then selection of appropriate composition for the oligonucleotide or polynucleotide substrates is well within the knowledge of one of ordinary skill especially with guidance from treatises such as Sambrook et al. Second Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York 1989 and like references. Oligonucleotides and polynucleotides may be single stranded or double stranded.

 Oligonucleotide tag or tag means an oligonucleotide that is attached to a polynucleotide and is used to identify and or track the polynucleotide in a reaction. Usually an oligonucleotide tag is attached to the 3 or 5 end of a polynucleotide to form a linear conjugate sometime referred to herein as a tagged polynucleotide or equivalently an oligonucleotide tag polynucleotide conjugate or tag polynucleotide conjugate. Oligonucleotide tags may vary widely in size and compositions the following references provide guidance for selecting sets of oligonucleotide tags appropriate for particular embodiments Brenner U.S. Pat. No. 5 635 400 Brenner et al. 97 1665 Shoemaker et al. 1996 14 450 Morris et al. EP Patent Pub. 0799897A1 Wallace U.S. Pat. No. 5 981 179 and the like. In different applications of the invention oligonucleotide tags can each have a length within a range of from 4 to 36 nucleotides or from 6 to 30 nucleotides or from 8 to 20 nucleotides respectively. A tag that is useful in the present invention to identify samples captured from a specific patient or other source is of sufficient length and complexity to distinguish it from sequences that identify other patients or sources of DNA being assayed in parallel. In one aspect oligonucleotide tags are used in sets or repertoires wherein each oligonucleotide tag of the set has a unique nucleotide sequence. In some embodiment particularly where oligonucleotide tags are used to sort polynucleotides or where they are identified by specific hybridization each oligonucleotide tag of such a set has a melting temperature that is substantially the same as that of every other member of the same set. In such aspects the melting temperatures of oligonucleotide tags within a set are within 10 C. of one another in another embodiment they are within 5 C. of one another and in another embodiment they are within 2 C. of one another. In another aspect oligonucleotide tags are members of a minimally cross hybridizing set. That is the nucleotide sequence of each member of such a set is sufficiently different from that of every other member of the set that no member can form a stable duplex with the complement of any other member under stringent hybridization conditions. In one aspect the nucleotide sequence of each member of a minimally cross hybridizing set differs from those of every other member by at least two nucleotides. Such a set of oligonucleotide tags may have a size in the range of from two three four five etc. up to ten and several tens to many thousands or even millions e.g. 50 to 1.6 10. In another embodiment such a size is in the range of from 200 to 40 000 or from 200 to 40 000 or from 200 to 10 000.

In one embodiment an amplifiable probe of the invention comprises at least one oligonucleotide tag that is replicated and labeled to produce a labeled oligonucleotide probe. Alternatively where patient specific tags are envisioned the tag can be detected by stringent hybridization or alternatively sequenced along with the target sequence. In one embodiment labeled oligonucleotide probes are hybridized to a microarray of tag complements for detection. In this embodiment for each different locus of each different genome e.g. from distinct patients patient samples or other sources there is a unique labeled oligonucleotide tag. That is the pair consisting of i the nucleotide sequence of the oligonucleotide tag and ii a label that generates detectable signal are uniquely associated with a particular locus of a particular genome. The nature of the label on an oligonucleotide tag can be based on a wide variety of physical or chemical properties including but not limited to light absorption fluorescence chemiluminescence electrochemiluminescence mass charge and the like. The signals based on such properties can be generated directly or indirectly. For example a label can be a fluorescent molecule covalently attached to an amplified oligonucleotide tag that directly generates an optical signal. Alternatively a label can comprise multiple components such as a hapten antibody complex that in turn may include fluorescent dyes that generated optical signals enzymes that generate products that produce optical signals or the like. Preferably the label on an oligonucleotide tag is a fluorescent label that is directly or indirectly attached to an amplified oligonucleotide tag. In one aspect such fluorescent label is a fluorescent dye or quantum dot selected from a group consisting of from 2 to 6 spectrally resolvable fluorescent dyes or quantum dots. In a different embodiment a set of samples could be queried serially i.e. using one tag at a time with each of the tags that represent different patients samples etc. wherein each tag is labeled with the same label and what is detected is binding or no binding to members of the set of samples thereby identifying in each round a given patient s sample.

Fluorescent labels and their attachment to oligonucleotides such as oligonucleotide tags are described in many reviews including Haugland Ninth Edition Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene 2002 Keller and Manak DNA Probes 2nd Edition Stockton Press New York 1993 Eckstein editor IRL Press Oxford 1991 Wetmur 26 227 259 1991 and the like. Particular methodologies applicable to the invention are disclosed in the following sample of references Fung et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 757 141 Hobbs Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 151 507 Cruickshank U.S. Pat. No. 5 091 519. In one aspect one or more fluorescent dyes are used as labels for labeled target sequences e.g. as disclosed by Menchen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 188 934 4 7 dichlorofluorscein dyes Begot et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 366 860 spectrally resolvable rhodamine dyes Lee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 847 162 4 7 dichlororhodamine dyes Khanna et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 318 846 ether substituted fluorescein dyes Lee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 800 996 energy transfer dyes Lee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 580 xanthine dyes Mathies et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 688 648 energy transfer dyes and the like. Labelling can also be carried out with quantum dots as disclosed in the following patents and patent publications U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 322 901 6 576 291 6 423 551 6 251 303 6 319 426 6 426 513 6 444 143 5 990 479 6 207 392 2002 0045045 2003 0017264 and the like. As used herein the term fluorescent label includes a signaling moiety that conveys information through the fluorescent absorption and or emission properties of one or more molecules. Such fluorescent properties include fluorescence intensity fluorescence life time emission spectrum characteristics energy transfer and the like.

Commercially available fluorescent nucleotide analogues readily incorporated into the labeling oligonucleotides include for example Cy3 dCTP Cy3 dUTP Cy5 dCTP Cy5 dUTP Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. fluorescein 12 dUTP tetramethylrhodamine 6 dUTP TEXAS RED 5 dUTP CASCADE BLUE 7 dUTP BODIPY TMFL 14 dUTP BODIPY TMR 14 dUTP BODIPY TMTR 14 dUTP RHODAMINE GREEN 5 dUTP OREGON GREENR 488 5 dUTP TEXAS RED 12 dUTP BODIPY TM 630 650 14 dUTP BODIPY TM 650 665 14 dUTP ALEXA FLUOR 488 5 dUTP ALEXA FLUOR 532 5 dUTP ALEXA FLUOR 568 5 dUTP ALEXA FLUOR 594 5 dUTP ALEXA FLUOR 546 14 dUTP fluorescein 12 UTP tetramethylrhodamine 6 UTP TEXAS RED 5 UTP mCherry CASCADE BLUE 7 UTP BODIPY TMFL 14 UTP BODIPY TMR 14 UTP BODIPY TM TR 14 UTP RHODAMINE GREEN 5 UTP ALEXA FLUOR 488 5 UTP LEXA FLUOR 546 14 UTP Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. . Protocols are available for custom synthesis of nucleotides having other fluorophores. Henegariu et al. Custom Fluorescent Nucleotide Synthesis as an Alternative Method for Nucleic Acid Labeling 18 345 348 2000 .

Other fluorophores available for post synthetic attachment include inter alia ALEXA FLUOR 350 ALEXA FLUOR 532 ALEXA FLUOR 546 ALEXA FLUOR 568 ALEXA FLUOR 594 ALEXA FLUOR 647 BODIPY 493 503 BODIPY FL BODIPY R6G BODIPY 530 550 BODIPY TMR BODIPY 558 568 BODIPY 558 568 BODIPY 564 570 BODIPY 576 589 BODIPY 581 591 BODIPY 630 650 BODIPY 650 665 Cascade Blue Cascade Yellow Dansyl lissamine rhodamine B Marina Blue Oregon Green 488 Oregon Green 514 Pacific Blue rhodamine 6G rhodamine green rhodamine red tetramethyl rhodamine Texas Red available from Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. and Cy2 Cy3.5 Cy5.5 and Cy7 Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. USA and others .

FRET tandem fluorophores may also be used such as PerCP Cy5.5 PE Cy5 PE Cy5.5 PE Cy7 PE Texas Red and APC Cy7 also PE Alexa dyes 610 647 680 and APC Alexa dyes.

Metallic silver particles may be coated onto the surface of the array to enhance signal from fluorescently labeled oligos bound to the array. Lakowicz et al. 2003 34 62.

Biotin or a derivative thereof may also be used as a label on a detection oligonucleotide and subsequently bound by a detectably labeled avidin streptavidin derivative e.g. phycoerythrin conjugated streptavidin or a detectably labeled anti biotin antibody. Digoxigenin may be incorporated as a label and subsequently bound by a detectably labeled anti digoxigenin antibody e.g. fluoresceinated anti digoxigenin . An aminoallyl dUTP residue may be incorporated into a detection oligonucleotide and subsequently coupled to an N hydroxy succinimide NHS derivatized fluorescent dye such as those listed supra. In general any member of a conjugate pair may be incorporated into a detection oligonucleotide provided that a detectably labeled conjugate partner can be bound to permit detection. As used herein the term antibody refers to an antibody molecule of any class or any sub fragment thereof such as an Fab.

Other suitable labels for detection oligonucleotides may include fluorescein FAM digoxigenin dinitrophenol DNP dansyl biotin bromodeoxyuridine BrdU hexahistidine 6 His phosphor amino acids e.g. P tyr P ser P thr or any other suitable label. In one embodiment the following hapten antibody pairs are used for detection in which each of the antibodies is derivatized with a detectable label biotin biotin digoxigenin a digoxigenin dinitrophenol DNP DNP 5 Carboxyfluorescein FAM FAM.

As mentioned above oligonucleotide tags can be indirectly labeled especially with a hapten that is then bound by a capture agent e.g. as disclosed in Holtke et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 344 757 5 702 888 and 5 354 657 Huber et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 198 537 Miyoshi U.S. Pat. No. 4 849 336 Misiura and Gait PCT publication WO 91 17160 and the like. Many different hapten capture agent pairs are available for use with the invention either with a target sequence or with a detection oligonucleotide used with a target sequence as described below. Exemplary haptens include biotin des biotin and other derivatives dinitrophenol dansyl fluorescein CY5 and other dyes digoxigenin and the like. For biotin a capture agent may be avidin streptavidin or antibodies. Antibodies may be used as capture agents for the other haptens many dye antibody pairs being commercially available e.g. Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. .

 Polymerase chain reaction or PCR means a reaction for the in vitro amplification of specific DNA sequences by the simultaneous primer extension of complementary strands of DNA. In other words PCR is a reaction for making multiple copies or replicates of a target nucleic acid flanked by primer binding sites such reaction comprising one or more repetitions of the following steps i denaturing the target nucleic acid ii annealing primers to the primer binding sites and iii extending the primers by a nucleic acid polymerase in the presence of nucleoside triphosphates. Usually the reaction is cycled through different temperatures optimized for each step in a thermal cycler instrument. Particular temperatures durations at each step and rates of change between steps depend on many factors well known to those of ordinary skill in the art e.g. exemplified by the references McPherson et al. editors 2 IRL Press Oxford 1991 and 1995 respectively . For example in a conventional PCR using Taq DNA polymerase a double stranded target nucleic acid may be denatured at a temperature greater than 90 C. primers annealed at a temperature in the range 50 75 C. and primers extended at a temperature in the range 72 78 C.

The term PCR encompasses derivative forms of the reaction including but not limited to RT PCR real time PCR nested PCR quantitative PCR multiplexed PCR and the like. Reaction volumes range from a few hundred nanoliters e.g. 200 nL to a few hundred microliters e.g. 200 microliters. Reverse transcription PCR or RT PCR means a PCR that is preceded by a reverse transcription reaction that converts a target RNA to a complementary single stranded DNA which is then amplified e.g. Tecott et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 168 038. Real time PCR means a PCR for which the amount of reaction product i.e. amplicon is monitored as the reaction proceeds. There are many forms of real time PCR that differ mainly in the detection chemistries used for monitoring the reaction product e.g. Gelfand et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 210 015 Taqman Wittwer et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 174 670 and 6 569 627 intercalating dyes Tyagi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 925 517 molecular beacons . Detection chemistries for real time PCR are reviewed in Mackay et al. 30 1292 1305 2002 . Nested PCR means a two stage PCR wherein the amplicon of a first PCR becomes the sample for a second PCR using a new set of primers at least one of which binds to an interior location of the first amplicon. As used herein initial primers in reference to a nested amplification reaction mean the primers used to generate a first amplicon and secondary primers mean the one or more primers used to generate a second or nested amplicon. Multiplexed PCR means a PCR wherein multiple target sequences or a single target sequence and one or more reference sequences are simultaneously carried out in the same reaction mixture e.g. Bernard et al. 1999 273 221 228 two color real time PCR . Usually distinct sets of primers are employed for each sequence being amplified. Quantitative PCR means a PCR designed to measure the abundance of one or more specific target sequences in a sample or specimen. Quantitative PCR includes both absolute quantitation and relative quantitation of such target sequences. Quantitative measurements are made using one or more reference sequences that may be assayed separately or together with a target sequence. The reference sequence may be endogenous or exogenous to a sample or specimen and in the latter case may comprise one or more competitor templates. Typical endogenous reference sequences include segments of transcripts of the following genes actin GAPDH microglobulin ribosomal RNA and the like. Techniques for quantitative PCR are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art as exemplified in the following references Freeman et al. 26 112 126 1999 Becker Andre et al. 17 9437 9447 1989 Zimmerman et al. 21 268 279 1996 Diviacco et al. 122 3013 3020 1992 Becker Andre et al. 17 9437 9446 1989 and the like.

 Polymorphism or genetic variant means a substitution inversion insertion or deletion of one or more nucleotides at a genetic locus or a translocation of DNA from one genetic locus to another genetic locus. In one aspect polymorphism means one of multiple alternative nucleotide sequences that may be present at a genetic locus of an individual and that may comprise a nucleotide substitution insertion or deletion with respect to other sequences at the same locus in the same individual or other individuals within a population. An individual may be homozygous or heterozygous at a genetic locus that is an individual may have the same nucleotide sequence in both alleles or have a different nucleotide sequence in each allele respectively. In one aspect insertions or deletions at a genetic locus comprises the addition or the absence of from 1 to 10 nucleotides at such locus in comparison with the same locus in another individual of a population or another allele in the same individual . Usually insertions or deletions are with respect to a major allele at a locus within a population e.g. an allele present in a population at a frequency of fifty percent or greater.

 Primer includes an oligonucleotide either natural or synthetic that is capable upon forming a duplex with a polynucleotide template of acting as a point of initiation of nucleic acid synthesis and being extended from its 3 end along the template so that an extended duplex is formed. The sequence of nucleotides added during the extension process are determined by the sequence of the template polynucleotide. Usually primers are extended by a DNA polymerase. Primers usually have a length in the range of between 3 to 36 nucleotides also 5 to 24 nucleotides also from 14 to 36 nucleotides. Primers within the scope of the invention can be universal primers or non universal primers. Pairs of primers can flank a sequence of interest or a set of sequences of interest. Primers and probes can be degenerate in sequence. Primers within the scope of the present invention bind adjacent to the target sequence whether it is the sequence to be captured for analysis or a tag that it to be copied.

 Solid support support and solid phase support are used interchangeably and refer to a material or group of materials having a rigid or semi rigid surface or surfaces. In many embodiments at least one surface of the solid support will be substantially flat although in some embodiments it may be desirable to physically separate synthesis regions for different compounds with for example wells raised regions pins etched trenches or the like. According to other embodiments the solid support s will take the form of beads resins gels microspheres or other geometric configurations. Microarrays usually comprise at least one planar solid phase support such as a glass microscope slide. Semisolid supports and gel supports are also useful in the present invention especially when polony amplification is used.

 Specific or specificity in reference to the binding of one molecule to another molecule such as a target sequence to a probe means the recognition contact and formation of a stable complex between the two molecules together with substantially less recognition contact or complex formation of that molecule with other molecules. In one aspect specific in reference to the binding of a first molecule to a second molecule means that to the extent the first molecule recognizes and forms a complex with another molecules in a reaction or sample it forms the largest number of the complexes with the second molecule. Preferably this largest number is at least fifty percent. Generally molecules involved in a specific binding event have areas on their surfaces or in cavities giving rise to specific recognition between the molecules binding to each other. Examples of specific binding include antibody antigen interactions enzyme substrate interactions formation of duplexes or triplexes among polynucleotides and or oligonucleotides receptor ligand interactions and the like. As used herein contact in reference to specificity or specific binding means two molecules are close enough that weak non covalent chemical interactions such as van der Waal forces hydrogen bonding base stacking interactions ionic and hydrophobic interactions and the like dominate the interaction of the molecules.

 Spectrally resolvable in reference to a plurality of fluorescent labels means that the fluorescent emission bands of the labels are sufficiently distinct i.e. sufficiently non overlapping that molecular tags to which the respective labels are attached can be distinguished on the basis of the fluorescent signal generated by the respective labels by standard photodetection systems e.g. employing a system of band pass filters and photomultiplier tubes or the like as exemplified by the systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 230 558 4 811 218 or the like or in Wheeless et al. pgs. 21 76 in Academic Press New York 1985 . In one aspect spectrally resolvable organic dyes such as fluorescein rhodamine and the like means that wavelength emission maxima are spaced at least 20 nm apart and in another aspect at least 40 nm apart. In another aspect chelated lanthanide compounds quantum dots and the like spectrally resolvable means that wavelength emission maxima are spaced at least 10 nm apart and in a further aspect at least 15 nm apart.

 T is used in reference to melting temperature. Melting temperature is the temperature at which a population of double stranded nucleic acid molecules becomes half dissociated into single strands. Several equations for calculating the Tof nucleic acids are well known in the art. As indicated by standard references a simple estimate of the Tvalue may be calculated by the equation. T 81.5 0.41 G C when a nucleic acid is in aqueous solution at 1 M NaCl see e.g. Anderson and Young Quantitative Filter Hybridization in 1985 . Other references e.g. Allawi H. T. Santa Lucia J. Jr. 36 10581 94 1997 include alternative methods of computation which take structural and environmental as well as sequence characteristics into account for the calculation of T.

 Sample means a quantity of material from a biological environmental medical or patient source in which detection or measurement of target nucleic acids is sought. On the one hand it is meant to include a specimen or culture e.g. microbiological cultures . On the other hand it is meant to include both biological and environmental samples. A sample may include a specimen of synthetic origin. Biological samples may be animal including human fluid solid e.g. stool or tissue as well as liquid and solid food and feed products and ingredients such as dairy items vegetables meat and meat by products and waste. Biological samples may include materials taken from a patient including but not limited to cultures cells tissues blood saliva cerebral spinal fluid pleural fluid milk lymph sputum semen needle aspirates and the like. Biological samples may be obtained from all of the various families of domestic animals as well as feral or wild animals including but not limited to such animals as ungulates bear fish rodents etc. Environmental samples include environmental material such as surface matter soil water and industrial samples as well as samples obtained from food and dairy processing instruments apparatus equipment utensils disposable and non disposable items. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the sample types applicable to the present invention.

It is to be understood that the embodiments of the present invention which have been described are merely illustrative of some of the applications of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made by those skilled in the art based upon the teachings presented herein without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The following examples are set forth as being representative of the present invention. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention as these and other equivalent embodiments will be apparent in view of the present disclosure figures tables and accompanying claims.

A large number of padlock probes oligonucleotide probes that can circularize can be used to specifically capture single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs from genomic DNA and the associated SNP identities and genotypes can be subsequently assessed by massively parallel DNA sequencing . Without intending to be bound by theory padlock probes likely provide the highest specificity among current genotyping methods because the circularization involves the combination of i co operative annealing of two short sequences to a target in a uni molecular fashion ii allelic specific single base extension iii allelic specific ligation. In contrast both Affymetrix s GENECHIP and Illumina s INFINIUM assay involve a hybridization step that has an inherent limitation in distinguishing very similar sequences. Without intending to be bound by theory padlock probes likely represent the best opportunity to further increase the number of SNPs determined in one assay from approximately 500 000 to approximately 10 million. Furthermore combining padlock probes with DNA sequencing creates a distinct feature not possible with any of the current array based methods multiplexing on a large number of samples Syvanen 2005 37 S5 10 . To achieve two dimensional 2D genotyping padlock probes circularized on different samples will be tagged with unique sample barcodes and pooled for DNA sequencing. The genotype at a given SNP locus of a certain sample will then be decoded by the combinations of three barcodes allele barcode locus barcode and sample barcode all obtained in a single sequencing run. This provides an enormous advantage over existing technologies in that a single technology platform can be used for projects with a wide spectrum of SNP number and sample size combinations.

Development of 2D genotyping relies on recent advances large scale DNA synthesis. Making millions of padlock probes is non trivial given the current capability of solid phase DNA synthesis. Padlock probes are approximately 100 base pairs in length and thus genotyping one million SNPs requires the synthesis of roughly approximately 100 megabases of DNA in a large quantity. Such large scale synthesis would be prohibitively expensive under conventional DNA synthesis methods. With column based solid phase DNA synthesis the cost is approximately 0.05 base which translates to a total cost of approximately 5 000 000 for probe synthesis alone. Moreover oligonucleotides longer than 70 base pairs generally require additional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis PAGE purifications because of the presence of a high percentage of truncated sequences. Thus it is impractical to produce millions of padlock probes using conventional DNA synthesis methods.

The present invention is based in part on the use of DNA programmable chips Tian et al. 2004 432 1050 to make padlock probes. More specifically a large number of oligonucleotides will be synthesized on DNA programmable chips in small quantity approximately femtomole scale . These oligonucleotides will then be amplified as a pool to a large quantity using in vitro polymerase cloning methods Dahl et al. 2004 101 4548 Hutchinson et al. 2005 102 17332 Zhang et al. 2006 24 680 and finally converted to single stranded padlock probes through a series of enzymatic treatments . This procedure will facilitate the synthesis of millions of padlock probes at a very low cost.

2D genotyping can be divided into two phases the synthesis phase and the genotyping sequencing phase . Protocol development of the synthesis phase using long oligonucleotides synthesized by the conventional column based method at Integrated DNA Technology IDT IA and 30 000 oligonucleotides synthesized on Agilent prototype chips was recently completed. Protocols for the first three steps in the genotyping phase have also been developed. Some important results will be presented in detail in the examples set forth below.

Performing genotyping of one million SNPs on one sample requires approximately 150 ng of padlock probes that contain one million species of a total length of 88 Mbp assuming 400 ng of genomic template and a probe target ratio of 6 1 . With the most recent chip synthesis technology at Agilent one programmable chip can produce 22 000 or 44 000 long oligonucleotides at the scale of approximately 1 femtomole per oligonucleotide. In order to achieve the goal of ultra low cost SNP genotyping a large quantity of padlock probes must be regenerated from oligonucleotides synthesized on a single set of Agilent chips at a low cost less than 10 150 ng . Rolling circle amplification hyperbranched rolling circle amplification RCA hRCA on circularized oligonucleotides will be performed for this purpose.

RCA hRCA has at least three major advantages over PCR based methods. First the yield of RCA hRCA is usually approximately 10 to 100 fold higher than PCR. Second RCA hRCA has a much lower bias compared with PCR. Finally and most importantly because of the isothermal nature of RCA hRCA non specific false priming of amplification primers is not an issue. In contrast truncated or chimeric amplicons have often been observed with PCR amplified oligonucleotides in our laboratory because when amplifying a complex pool of 10partially homologous sequences amplicons often compete with primers in priming during the late stages of thermal cycling.

Several options to convert linear oligonucleotides synthesized from programmable DNA chips into the circular form were investigated. One way that this circularization of linear oligonucleotides can be performed is through the use of the DNA ligase CircLigase which catalyzes intra molecular ligation of single stranded DNA. One major advantage of using CircLigase is that it does not require long flanking sequences which is especially desirable since with our current synthesis method the quality and yield decreases as the length of oligonucleotide goes up. However one major issue associated with CircLigase is that its efficiency depends on DNA sequence composition and hence using this enzyme could lead to a biased library. Hypothesizing that the efficiency could depend on the GC content of oligonucleotides the circularization reaction was tested in the presence of betaine which cancels out the difference between A T and G C base pairing. It was determined that CircLigase had ligation activity in the presence of 1 M betaine although the circularization efficiency was slightly lower than that without betaine . Further characterization of the ligation bias of CircLigase and the effect of betaine will be performed using polony sequencing of the circularized library.

A second circularization method involves the use of a helper oligonucleotide and a double stranded DNA ligase such as T4 DNA ligase Taq DNA ligase or AmpLigase. This method relies upon the same circularization principal involved in the closure of padlock probes. Without intending to be bound by theory this circularization method has several advantages. First the use of a reasonably long helper oligonucleotide along with a thermostable ligase will ensure highly specific ligation. Second this approach will allow significant flexibility as through the use of different helper oligos different pools of chip synthesized oligos could be selectively circularized. Lastly the helper oligo method will allow the selective circularization of properly sized oligos as only oligonucleotides with intact adaptors on both ends will be circularized. Near complete ligation was obtained with either T4 DNA ligase or AmpLigase at different oligo helper ratios .

After the downstream protocols for probe production were established and the padlock probes were tested for genotyping unexpected issues arose associated with the circularization protocol. A significant reduction of probe complexity was observed using the indirect circularization protocol indicating the circularization was either extremely inefficient or biased towards certain probe sequences. With the direct circularization method a wide distribution of size of padlock probes was observed after removing adaptors. Only a very small percentage of probes had the expected size. In contrast the protocol worked well with the reference oligonucleotides synthesized at IDT indicating without being limited by theory that the oligonucleotides synthesized on Agilent s chips could be a mixed population of good ones and bad e.g. truncated and or branched ones. Accordingly a pre circularization PCR amplification and size selection step Step 1 was included to select for full length oligonucleotides. T7 exonuclease was also used to convert double stranded amplicons to single stranded sequences prior to circularization which turned out to be critical in improving circularization efficiency.

Protocols for direct and indirect circularization of oligonucleotides have been established . Good results have been obtained using three different amplification methods RCA hRCA and C2CA .

One key step in probe production is to produce a large quantity of single stranded DNA. When the circularized oligonucleotides are amplified via hRCA the amplicons are double stranded DNA in a hyperbranched structure. Such amplicons need to be converted to single stranded DNA before single stranded padlock probes can be released by oligo guided restriction endonuclease digestion. The following five protocols to make single stranded DNA were evaluated in terms of simplicity efficiency product purity and cost 

All five methods were successfully used to make single stranded DNA. The first method using lambda exonuclease appeared to be easier and more efficient than the others and became the method used.

To reduce the cost of probe production it is critical to construct a renewable pool of padlock probes containing millions of species from one set of programmable DNA chips. This protocol will be based on the combination of Circle To Circle Amplification C2CA and hRCA Lizardi et al. 1998 19 225 Dahl et al. supra . With C2CA circular DNA molecules containing a unique restriction endonuclease recognition site are amplified by RCA to form long linear concatemers which can be digested by the restriction endonuclease with a guide oligo. The resulting monomers are then ligated so that each circular template molecule is converted into approximately 1000 circles of the reverse complementary strand. This procedure can be repeated multiple times alternating between the strand and the strand to achieve a very high amplification magnitude. C2CA has been shown to have less amplification bias than PCR Dahl et al. supra making it an ideal choice for the renewable protocol. The C2CA method was tested on a reference IDT degenerate oligonucleotide as well as 22 000 Agilent oligonucleotides but a high amplification magnitude as reported by Dahl et al. was not achieved. Without intending to be bound by theory one likely explanation for these results was that incomplete restriction endonuclease digestion combined with the ligation of a large number of different DNA molecules likely lead to the low amplification. This explanation is consistent with the fact that C2CA was developed for the amplification of a very small number of molecules not for large scale preparative purposes. Nevertheless while the C2CA protocol will be further optimized for preparative purposes C2CA will also be used for generating a renewable library and hRCA will be used for the generation of a large amount of this library.

After amplification with RCA hRCA padlock probes are present as linear concatemers. Each padlock probe is flanked by adaptors at the 3 and 5 ends. RCA amplicons are single stranded while hRCA amplicons can be converted into single stranded forms using several methods mentioned above. Oligo guided restriction endonuclease digestion Szybalski 1985 40 169 Kim et al. 1988 240 504 Zhu 1989 177 120 Podhajska et al. 1992 216 303 is used to release the inserts from linear concatemers . Because each padlock probe has unique capturing single stranded sequences at both 3 and 5 end restriction endonuclease recognition sites must be located with the adaptor sequences. In addition to break the concatemers precisely at the junctions between the adaptors and the inserts the restriction endonuclease cutting sites have to reside outside the associated recognition sites. This requirement reduces the pool of potential restriction enzymes to Type IIs restriction endonucleases. Other restriction enzyme requirements include i activity on double stranded DNA only ii the ability to cut close to the ends of double stranded DNA iii specific and unique cutting site and iv negligible star activity or wobble cutting. There are very few restriction endonucleases that meet all of these criteria. Four candidates were identified and characterized BciV I Dpn II Hph I and TspR I. Dpn II and TspR I were confirmed to fulfill all of the above requirements . It is worth noting that Type II restriction endonucleases have been shown to digest single stranded DNA Nishigaki et al. 1985 13 5747. It was determined however that Dpn II TspR I and Taq I all specifically digested double stranded DNA using the conditions tested.

The entire circularization amplification digestion protocol was tested with a degenerate oligonucleotide synthesized by IDT which mimicked a complex pool of chip synthesized oligonucleotides . Approximately 30 000 padlock probes were successfully generated from Agilent s oligonucleotides using this probe releasing method.

Using approximately 30 000 padlock probes generated from Agilent s oligonucleotides three critical steps of technical development in the genotyping phase were tested . Although the protocol for allelic specific extension and circularization Step 8 had been well established Hardenbol et al. 2003 21 673 Hardenbol et al. 2005 15 269 two critical points were identified using Apyrase to remove contaminating nucleotides adding polymerase and ligase after probes are annealed to the genomic templates to ensure specific extension and ligation.

It was also determined that due to the low ligation efficiency on genomic templates amplification of circularized padlock probes by PCR Step 10 was associated with high amplification biases. However it was also determined that a pre PCR Rolling Circle Amplification using either Bst polymerase or phi29 polymerase reduced the biases dramatically. The genotyping assay was verified using Sanger Sequencing and it was confirmed that the genotyping assay is specific. In addition it was determined that in designing padlock probes SNPs located within repetitive regions of the human genome should not be included because the corresponding padlock probes tended be present at very high copy numbers after circularization and reduce the efficiency of genotyping assay.

