---

title: Systems and methods for supplemental weather information presentation on a display
abstract: An embodiment of the supplemental weather display system presents supplemental weather information on a display in a craft. An exemplary embodiment receives the supplemental weather information from a remote source, determines a location of the supplemental weather information relative to the craft, receives weather information from an on-board radar system, and integrates the supplemental weather information with the weather information received from the on-board radar system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07817078&OS=07817078&RS=07817078
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07817078
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080229
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under NASA Contract No. NNL06AA22C Subcontract No. 07 002 and is subject to the provisions of Section 305 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 42 U.S.C. 2457 . The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

Commercial aircraft employ on board weather radio detection and ranging RADAR or commonly referred to as radar systems that detect weather phenomena and display such detected weather phenomena on a radar display. Existing on board weather radar systems provide data on weather local to the aircraft for example weather ahead of the aircraft within the range of the weather radar unit. The weather information is displayed on a cockpit weather display. However the weather data collected by an aircraft is available only to the particular aircraft experiencing the weather since the weather phenomena is detected by the on board radar system. That is weather information displayed on on board cockpit radar displays is limited to the weather returns supplied by the on board weather radar.

Various techniques have been proposed to provide an aircraft weather information system wherein the weather information is provided to the aircraft from various sources external to the aircraft. For example the commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 907 730 published as U.S. 2002 0379072 entitled AIRCRAFT WEATHER INFORMATION SYSTEM and the commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 8 829 922 issued on Dec. 7 2004 entitled SYNTHETIC AIRBORNE HAZARD DISPLAY both of which are incorporated herein by reference propose providing weather related information detected by other aircraft and or ground installations to the aircraft. Such supplemental information enhances the quality of weather information presented on the on board cockpit radar displays.

Such supplemental weather information may be particularly beneficial if the weather information related to weather phenomena not readily detectable by the on board radar system such as turbulence. For example a remote aircraft may pass through a region of turbulence that is not identified by the radar system. Acceleration sensors or motion sensors may identify the turbulence.

Information corresponding to the detected turbulence is communicated to a ground station or to other aircraft using a pilot report PIREP . Pilots of other aircraft may learn of the turbulence from the PIREP.

However legacy on board radar systems cannot receive and display such supplemental weather information and present such on their on board cockpit radar displays because they are not configured to receive and interpret PIREPs. To take advantage of such supplemental weather information the legacy on board radar system must be removed and replaced with a new on board radar system having the capacity to receive and display such supplemental weather information. Refitting an aircraft with a new on board radar system is very expensive and time consuming. Accordingly it is desirable to provide legacy on board radar systems with the ability to receive and present supplemental weather information on their on board cockpit radar displays.

Further aircraft personnel may use various types of portable auxiliary equipment. Such equipment may be commonly referred to as an electronic flight bag EFB or an electronic travel bag ETB generally referred to as EFBs herein. EFBs are connectable to aviation electronics of the airplane via ports busses or other suitable connectors. Some EFBs may include a display. At times it may be desirable to have the EFB display present the supplemental weather information on its radar display.

Systems and methods of displaying supplemental weather information and weather detected by a radar system are disclosed. An exemplary embodiment has an input interface communicatively coupled to the radar system and operable to receive the detected weather information from the radar system and communicatively coupled to a communication management unit that receives the supplemental weather information from a source that is remote to a craft a processor system communicatively coupled to the input interface and operable to integrate the weather information and the supplemental weather information and a display communicatively coupled to the processor system and operable to display the integrated weather phenomena and supplemental weather information.

In accordance with further aspects an exemplary embodiment is a system that has a radar system operable to detect weather phenomena in a vicinity of a craft and operable to generate weather information corresponding to the detected weather phenomena a transceiver operable to receive supplemental weather information from a remote source a processor system communicatively coupled to the radar system and the transceiver and operable to integrate the weather information and the supplemental weather information and a display communicatively coupled to the processor system and operable to display the integrated weather information and supplemental weather information.

In accordance with further aspects an exemplary embodiment is a process that receives the supplemental weather information from a remote source determines a location of the supplemental weather information relative to the craft receives weather information from an on board radar system and integrates the supplemental weather information with the weather information received from the on board radar system.

Weather data is collected from a plurality of sources. These sources may be terrestrial weather instrumentation equipped with terrestrial sensors that may include weather radar local observations and other Earth based sensors commonly known to those of skill in the art. Weather data may also be collected by a plurality of aircraft . The data collected from aircraft is preferably collected by using standard instrumentation already carried aboard the aircraft . This standard instrumentation typically includes but is not limited to a weather radar a storm scope navigation systems motion sensors and or an air data computer. The type of weather data available can include depending upon sensor availability the following 

A ground station receives the weather data via downlink and or via communications backbone . Ground station may also incorporate into the compiled data any available turbulence and pilot reports PIREPS referred to herein as TAPS information from aircraft . The ground station then processes the available weather data for uplink to the aircraft equipped with an embodiment of the supplemental weather display system .

Some embodiments are operable to receive supplemental weather information directly from other aircraft. Other embodiments are operable to receive supplemental weather information from on board detection systems such as but not limited to a lightning detection system.

The supplemental weather information received by the aircraft is then processed for display on a cockpit display. The various threat conditions are communicated to the pilot by drawing icons on the display such as patterned polygons for example. Thus the pilot sees a series of two dimensional figures in a plan view so the pilot can easily see the relationship of his short term flight path to nearby meteorological threats.

Some types of weather phenomena are detectable by the aircraft equipped with an on board radar system not shown . For example a thunderstorm is the type of weather phenomena detectable by a weather radar system. conceptually illustrates the range of the on board weather radar system of aircraft . Since the thunderstorm is within the range of the on board weather radar system the radar display would indicate the presence and or severity of the thunderstorm .

Some types of weather phenomena are not detectable or at least not detectable with suitable reliability by the on board weather radar system of the aircraft . One exemplary type of such weather phenomena is turbulence. However turbulence is detectable by an aircraft passing through such turbulence. For example the aircraft is illustrated as passing through turbulence . Sensors on the aircraft detect the turbulence . Information corresponding to the detected turbulence is communicated to the ground station . Similarly the aircraft is passing through the turbulence . Sensors on the aircraft detect the turbulence . Information corresponding to the detected turbulence is communicated to the ground station . Alternatively or in addition to the terrestrial weather instrumentation may detect the turbulence and communicate information corresponding to the detected turbulence to the ground station .

With respect to the aircraft and the aircraft are within the range of the on board radar system of the aircraft . Embodiments of the supplemental weather display system receive information corresponding to supplemental weather information such as but not limited to the turbulence and the turbulence . The supplemental weather information is presented on the on board cockpit radar display of the aircraft using suitable icons or the like. The supplemental weather information may be received from the ground station or from the aircraft and or the aircraft .

It is appreciated that aircraft is outside of the radar range of aircraft . Accordingly any supplemental weather information provided by the aircraft will not be relevant to the pilots of aircraft . Accordingly weather information from the aircraft would not by displayed on the on board cockpit radar display of aircraft . Embodiments of the supplemental weather display system may be installed on any craft equipped with a weather radar system such as an aircraft boat submarine dirigible automobile or vehicle.

For example as radial is presented a first bin with a first color is visible at or near the origin . Colors are presented out along the radial up to the last bin . As noted above colors are indicative of the nature e.g. severity of the detected weather phenomena and or other physical objects. For example the color black indicates an absence of weather phenomena no returning reflected radar signal at that range . Other colors used are red orange blue and magenta. The colors presented in a radar image normally range from blue or green for weak returns to red or magenta for very strong returns. Strong returns red or magenta may be indicative of heavy rain thunderstorms hail strong winds or tornadoes however such information needs to be interpreted carefully.

Following presentation of the radial the radial is next presented followed by the radial . Presentation of the radials continues until the last radial is presented at the end of the radar display . Presentation of the radials then begins at the beginning of the radar display and continues across the screen. Since the currently presented radial corresponds to a more recent acquisition of radar data than the preceding presented radials the radar display is refreshed with the most currently available radar information.

Further since the location of a bin along any particular radial corresponds to proximity to the detecting radar system the viewer understands that the presented data corresponding to the group of bins corresponds to the detection of reflecting weather phenomena and or other physical objects relatively close to the detecting radar system and that the last of the bins corresponds to the detection of reflecting weather phenomena and or other physical objects relatively far away from the detecting radar system .

It is appreciated that the illustrated radar display displays across a range of approximately 180 with the arrow corresponding to the front of the airplane in which the radar display is installed. Other radar information presentation formats may be used such as a 360 presentation wherein radar information surrounding the detecting radar system is displayed. Embodiments of the supplemental weather display system may be operable with any suitable radar device or system.

In the simplified example of the location of the 3 bit sub words in the word corresponds to the location along the radial i. For example the first sub word indicated as contains the information that corresponds to presented first bin . The sub words indicated as and in correspond to the first four presented bins . The last sub word corresponds to the last presented bin .

Further the 3 bit sub words contain color information corresponding to the characteristics of detected reflecting weather phenomena and or other physical objects . For example a number in a bin may correspond to the color black to indicate that for that range bin no reflections from weather phenomena and or other physical objects were detected.

It is appreciated that other suitable information formats may be received and processed by various embodiments of the supplemental weather display system . A different number of range bins may be used for example. Further additional or alternative colors may be used. Some radar systems may use only black and white colors.

In the illustrated exemplary embodiment of the supplemental weather display system the radar system communicates supplemental weather information corresponding to detected weather phenomena to the communication management unit via connector . The weather information is received by the input interface . In an exemplary embodiment input interface is operable to receive the radar information in the ARINC 453 format from the radar system . Other embodiments communicate the radar information in other formats.

As noted above the aircraft detected the turbulence . Similarly the aircraft detected the turbulence . Further the on board radar system detected the thunderstorm . The supplemental weather information is communicated from the aircraft and the aircraft to the ground station . After processing the ground station communicates a RF signal with the supplemental weather information to aircraft equipped with an embodiment of the supplemental weather display system . Alternatively or additionally the aircraft and the aircraft may directly communicate their supplemental weather information directly to aircraft . The supplemental weather information is received by the RF transceiver of the communications management unit . In alternative embodiments other suitable RF receiving devices may be used.

The supplemental weather information is received as an RF signal by RF transceiver . The processor system retrieves and executes the supplemental weather integration logic from memory to integrate the supplemental weather information of the supplemental weather information signal with the weather information from the radar system . The integrated display information is communicated to display via connector .

The received supplemental weather information and the weather information from the radar system are integrated together into a single display presentation such that the viewer of display views the received supplemental weather information and the detected weather information. The supplemental weather information may be indicated using an icon that is recognizable to the viewer. For example an icon is presented on display which indicates the presence of the turbulence detected by the aircraft . A second icon is presented on the display which indicates the presence of the turbulence detected by the aircraft . The detected thunderstorm is indicated by an icon .

To integrate the received supplemental weather information and the information from radar system the communication management unit identifies which supplemental weather information such as turbulence is to be presented on display . The communication management unit identifies which of the supplemental weather information is within the display range of the display . Weather information outside the display range may be deleted ignored deselected etc. Weather information within the display range is further processed to determine if it should be integrated with the weather information from the radar system .

The supplemental weather display system correlates the location of the supplemental weather information within the display range with respect to the location of the aircraft . Accordingly embodiments of the supplemental weather display system determine where the icons corresponding to the supplemental weather information are to be displayed on the display . The supplemental weather information is then integrated with the weather information from the radar system such that the integrated display information is generated.

The integrated display information is communicated to the display via the output interface . The integrated display information may be output in any suitable format. In one embodiment the integrated display information is in the ARINC 453 data format. In another embodiment described in greater detail below the integrated display information is processed into a low bandwidth format such as but not limited to an ARINC 429 data format.

In the example above the location of the aircraft is known location of the aircraft is specified by information in its TAPS or the location is determined by ground based radar . Accordingly the location of the turbulence is determinable. Since the location of the aircraft is known to itself the supplemental weather display system determines the location of the detected turbulence with respect to the current aircraft location. Upon determining the relative location of the turbulence the supplemental weather display system then determines the location on the display where the icon is to be displayed so as to indicate to a viewer the location of the turbulence with respect to the aircraft .

In one embodiment the weather information from the radar system is an ARINC 453 compliant signal. Accordingly the communication management unit determines which ranges and bins correspond to the determined location of the supplemental weather information that is to be integrated with the detected weather information provided by the radar system . The communication management unit then processes the bin information and provides information that corresponds to the icon representative of the supplemental weather information that is to be displayed on the display . For example the bid data may be replaced substituted or the like with data corresponding to the icon representative of the supplemental weather information.

In some embodiments the user interface is operable to receive input from a user such that the supplemental weather information is integrated with the weather information from the radar system on a selectable basis. For example an actuator or the like communicates a user input signal to the user interface which indicates that the supplemental weather information is to be integrated with the weather information from the radar system . The user input signal from the actuator may be modified by the user such that the supplemental weather information is not integrated with the weather information from the radar system . Thus the user may choose to have the supplemental weather display system integrate or not integrate the supplemental weather information with the weather information from the radar system .

In some embodiments the actuator may be operable to select the types of supplemental weather information to be integrated with the weather information from the radar system . For example the user may desire to integrate turbulence information with the weather information from the radar system . Actuator generates a signal that indicates that the turbulence information is to be selected from the received supplemental weather information. In some embodiments a plurality of types of supplemental weather information may be selected for integration with the weather information from the radar system .

Examples of actuator include but are not limited to a push button a toggle switch a multi position sensing device configured to sense a plurality of switch positions a touch sensitive device or a light sensitive device. Furthermore the functionality of the actuator may be alternatively implemented as a menu displayed on a display such as display . In some embodiments the actuator is a component of the communication management unit . If implemented on a menu based system a cursor touch sensitive button or the like may be displayed on the display for activating a user interface menu which displays selectable types of or characteristics of available supplemental weather information that is displayable on the display .

Some embodiments of the supplemental weather display system are operable to analyze the received supplemental weather information to determine if the supplemental weather information should be presented. Preferably one or more characteristics of the supplemental weather information is correlated with one or more characteristics of the aircraft . Characteristics of the aircraft may be stored in the aircraft parameters portion of memory .

In an exemplary embodiment the supplemental weather display system determines if the supplemental weather information will impact performance of the aircraft . In response to determining that the supplemental weather information will impact performance of the aircraft the supplemental weather information is integrated with the weather information received from the on board radar system .

For example the size of the aircraft may be larger than the size of the aircraft providing reporting of turbulence. To the relatively smaller aircraft detecting and reporting the turbulence the turbulence may be significant. Presumably the TAPS information from the relatively small aircraft includes information characterizing the strength of the turbulence and characteristics regarding the detecting aircraft. The supplemental weather display system correlates the reported turbulence strength information with the size of the aircraft to determine if the reported turbulence is likely to have a significant effect on the aircraft . If the reported turbulence will not likely affect the aircraft for example when the aircraft is significantly larger than the aircraft reporting the turbulence the supplemental weather display system may determine that the reported turbulence information should not be integrated with the weather information from the radar system . On the other hand if the reported turbulence will likely affect the aircraft such as when the aircraft is the same size or smaller than the aircraft reporting the turbulence the supplemental weather display system may determine that the reported turbulence information should be integrated with the weather information from the radar system .

Other relevant characteristics of the supplemental weather information may include altitude. For example the supplemental weather display system correlates the reported turbulence altitude with the altitude of the aircraft to determine if the reported turbulence will have any significant effect on the aircraft . If the altitude of the reported turbulence is within a threshold of the altitude of the aircraft the supplemental weather display system may determine that the reported turbulence information should be integrated with the weather information from the radar system . On the other hand if the altitude of the reported turbulence is outside of the threshold the supplemental weather display system may determine that the reported turbulence information should not be integrated with the weather information from the radar system since the aircraft is not likely to encounter the turbulence in view of the altitude differences .

Location of the reported supplemental weather information may also be an analyzed characteristic. The current heading and or a future heading of the aircraft may be correlated with the respective location of the supplemental weather information. If the aircraft is traveling at a heading where the supplemental weather information is likely not to be encountered the supplemental weather display system may determine that the reported turbulence information should not be integrated with the weather information from the radar system . Accordingly information that is not relevant to the immediate needs of the pilot is not presented on display .

An EFB is connectable to aviation electronics of the airplane via ports busses or other suitable connectors. In some embodiments the EFB conforms its connection to communicate under the ARINC 429 standard which is a relative low speed data protocol particularly with respect to the ARINC 453 standard used by radars . ARINC 429 supports a low speed mode 12.5 to 14.5 kHz or a high speed mode 100 kHz data transfers based upon a 32 bit word structure.

The EFB may include a display . At times it may be desirable to have the EFB display present radar information integrated with supplemental weather information. Accordingly the EFB includes the user interface the processor system the input interface and the memory . The memory includes a portion for the supplemental weather integration logic and an optional portion for the aircraft parameters . This embodiment allows the EFB with an embodiment of the supplemental weather display system to be communicatively coupled to the radar system and the communication management unit . The radar system and the communication management unit may be legacy devices installed in an existing aircraft system . Thus the radar system remains coupled to the legacy navigational display system .

In the various embodiments of the supplemental weather display system processing time for the supplemental weather display system to integrate the supplemental weather information with the weather information from the radar system is preferably short enough so as not to cause a substantial delay in the refresh rate of the weather information from the radar system . That is the time for integration of the selected supplemental weather display system is preferably less than the update rate of the display .

Embodiments may use one or more suitable icons to present a particular type of supplemental weather information. One embodiment may employ a rectangle that may have a particular hatching style shading and or color to indicate characteristics of the integrated supplemental weather information. Another embodiment may use a series of arcs bars or lines to display the supplemental weather information. Further characteristics of the displayed icon may indicate characteristics of the supplemental weather information. For example the color and or intensity of the displayed icon may indicate severity of the turbulence.

Some embodiments may display supplemental textual information corresponding to characteristics of the supplemental weather information with the displayed icon. For example alpha numeric text may indicate the altitude of the displayed supplemental weather information.

Some embodiments are operable to allow a user to specify characteristics of the icon used to indicate the presence of the supplemental weather information. For example the pilot may desire a relatively large and or brightly colored icon that is easily discernable. Alternatively a navigator may prefer a smaller less noticeable icon. Thus the actuator is configured to allow the user to specify attributes of the displayed icon.

The processor system is typically a commercially available processor. Examples of commercially available processors include but are not limited to an 80 86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation U.S.A. a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM. a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc. a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation. The processor system controls the execution of a program employed by embodiments of the supplemental weather display system . Furthermore for convenience of illustration in the processor system the memory the supplemental weather integration logic and the aircraft parameters are shown residing in the communication management unit . The processor system the memory the supplemental weather integration logic and or the aircraft parameters may reside in alternative convenient locations outside of the communication management unit as components of other systems or as stand alone dedicated elements without adversely affecting the operation and functionality of the supplemental weather display system .

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

