---

title: Online system for fulfilling loan applications from loan originators
abstract: A loan submission and processing system, methods, apparatus and computer program products. One example method includes receiving user specified input relating to a loan application, storing the user specified input in a loan application file, determining a partner system that is to receive data related to the electronic loan application including dynamically determining a format and contents required to present a service request to the partner system for processing by the partner system, dynamically formatting the user specified input and any other required content into a service request, the service request compatible with the partner system and including the user specified data and the other required content and transmitting the service request to the partner system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08364579&OS=08364579&RS=08364579
owner: Ellie Mae, Inc.
number: 08364579
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081027
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 172 844 entitled Online System for Fulfilling Loan Applications from Loan Originators filed on Jun. 14 2002 and is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 222 637 entitled Loan Origination System Interface for Online Loan Application Processing filed on Aug. 15 2002. The disclosures of said applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to computer networks and more specifically to a system for processing and fulfilling loan applications over a network.

The World Wide Web web has evolved from first generation web systems that simply provided information to client computers over the Internet through a web browser program to second generation systems using application servers that provide dynamic personalized information and powerful back end transaction processing.

A great number of commercial applications become adapted to on line systems thus establishing a base of many different types of electronic commerce or e commerce transactions. Among the various adaptations of classical commercial transactions that have become adapted to online implementations is the area of financial loans. The loan application process is often a complicated and confusing process for average borrowers.

There are a great many different types of loans available depending upon the type of loan required such as personal loans home mortgages business lines of credit and so on. There are also many different variables or negotiable terms associated with each loan such as interest rate loan period processing fees and the like. In most cases a detailed profile of the borrower is required because factors such as age employment financial history credit rating and so on can have a great deal of impact on the cost and ability to qualify for a loan. Moreover loans are available from many different sources such as traditional banks to private and commercial money lenders.

Thus the process of applying for and obtaining a loan can be complicated and time consuming because of the great number of variables regarding the loan the lender and the borrower as well as the number of parties involved in the loan process. Because of the distributed information intensive nature of the loan industry a class of loan brokers also referred to as loan originators has emerged to aid borrowers in finding and obtaining the proper loan. The advent of loan originators has served to provide an important interface between borrowers and the various lenders and underwriters who might have an appropriate loan product.

Computer based loan brokers typically use sophisticated programs referred to as Loan Origination Software LOS systems to automate the loan application process and fulfillment process. In a traditional loan application scenario a borrower approaches a loan broker to find an appropriate loan. The broker takes the application information from the borrower and compiles a traditional loan application. Some type of loans provide standardized formats for the loan application information. For example mortgage loan applicants and processors typically use a uniform mortgage application form to provide what is referred to as 1003 data corresponding to FNMA Fannie Mae form number 1003. The loan broker then passes the application information to various other parties such as loan underwriters lenders and settlement service vendors.

The widespread use of the Internet has generally led loan brokers to recognize and accept the Internet and computerized processes as viable and promising vehicles with which to conduct business. Traditional loan processing involves a great deal of customer support data input and expedited mailing and delivery of physical documents. These factors present areas of great cost and potential problems in the loan application processing and delivery transaction. Although most present loan originators have implemented software systems such as LOS programs to automate their processes typical loan origination software systems do not provide a comprehensive interface between loan brokers and lenders and other third parties such as settlement services. Furthermore most present loan origination systems do not provide comprehensive form and document completion processes that truly automates the loan application process and minimizes the errors associated with individually completing all of the separate forms required in a typical loan transaction.

What is needed therefore is a loan processing and submission system that provides comprehensive completion control and submission of forms and documents associated with a loan application.

What is further needed is a loan processing system that provides a comprehensive network based interface between a broker and a plurality of lenders and other third parties for fulfillment of a loan application on behalf of a borrower.

An on line interface system for facilitating the processing of loan applications by loan originators is described. A processing and submission system receives relevant loan information from a borrower and enters this information into file templates which are utilized during loan origination. An automatic data flow process accessible through an origination screen populates the relevant fields in all of the other loan forms and word processing documents. Forms are supported for several different loan types such as conventional mortgages federal housing authority loans veteran s administration loans and other similar types of personal and business loans. The automatic data flow eliminates the need to re enter the same information in each form and it also automatically calculates relevant field data such as percentage rate maximum loan cash to or from borrower amortization schedules and the like. Once information is entered into each data field e.g. borrower s name and address of the file template during the loan origination process the information is saved in a database wherein each data field is associated with the particular information entered. Thereafter when a particular loan form is activated the automatic data flow program conducts a search for each data field. Alternatively each loan form can be modified to insert embedded codes so that the computer program can more easily identify the location of a data field and enter the associated information.

In one embodiment the loan broker computer system includes a loan origination software program integrated with a web browser based interface system. The interface system couples the loan origination software program to one or more partner computers. The partners comprise loan underwriters lenders such as banks and finance companies and settlement service vendors such as appraisers insurance brokers and credit agencies . The interface system provides dynamic formatting and data transmission for different connections depending on the transaction type and target partner. In a web based implementation the interface system populates data directly from the loan origination software program to the appropriate web pages of the target partners.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows below.

A network based loan processing system for electronic commerce is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate explanation. The description of preferred embodiments is not intended to limit the scope of the claims appended hereto.

Aspects of the present invention may be implemented on one or more computers executing software instructions. According to one embodiment of the present invention server and client computer systems transmit and receive data over a computer network or a fiber or copper based telecommunications network. The steps of accessing downloading and manipulating the data as well as other aspects of the present invention are implemented by central processing units CPU in the server and client computers executing sequences of instructions stored in a memory. The memory may be a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a persistent store such as a mass storage device or any combination of these devices. Execution of the sequences of instructions causes the CPU to perform steps according to embodiments of the present invention.

The instructions may be loaded into the memory of the server or client computers from a storage device or from one or more other computer systems over a network connection. For example a client computer may transmit a sequence of instructions to the server computer in response to a message transmitted to the client over a network by the server. As the server receives the instructions over the network connection it stores the instructions in memory. The server may store the instructions for later execution or it may execute the instructions as they arrive over the network connection. In some cases the downloaded instructions may be directly supported by the CPU. In other cases the instructions may not be directly executable by the CPU and may instead be executed by an interpreter that interprets the instructions. In other embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present invention. Thus the present invention is not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the server or client computers. In some instances the client and server functionality may be implemented on a single computer platform.

Aspects of the present invention can be used in a distributed electronic commerce application that includes a client server network system that links one or more server computers to one or more client computers as well as server computers to other server computers and client computers to other client computers. The client and server computers may be implemented as desktop personal computers workstation computers mobile computers portable computing devices personal digital assistant PDA devices or any other similar type of computing device.

In the loan application process a broker matches a borrower customer with the loan package that best suits their need. Unlike the retail loan market in which the borrower directly inquires about loans available from a bank or commercial lender the loan broker utilizes the wholesale loan market. In terms of a general process the broker obtains data from the borrower and then shops for loans from the available sources in the wholesale loan market. Wholesale lenders typically work only with brokers and take completed loan packages and underwrite them. The brokers are typically offered discounted pricing in return for the processing work performed by the broker.

In a network embodiment of the present invention a loan broker computer is configured to access computers operated by third parties typically in the wholesale loan market such as lenders loan underwriters settlement service vendors and other similar loan fulfillment parties through a web based interface that is integrated with a loan origination software program. The loan broker provides an on line interface between borrowers and those companies that will ultimately perform the loan services and provide the requested funds. During the course of the loan application process various items of information are transmitted among the parties including borrower information and loan application data. This information is typically maintained in databases stored in the broker computer or on the third party computers. Different entities may be responsible for different aspects of the transaction from the lender s side. For example one company may be involved in the processing of a loan application while another is involved with providing the loan itself while yet another may be involved with the billing and collection of repayment from the borrower.

The network implementation facilitates the delivery transmission and tracking of data and allows for the completion of electronic commerce transactions. Several different network topologies may be implemented through the use of a loan processing network system according to embodiments of the present invention. In general the network system couples one or more lenders banks financial institutions credit agencies and so on to the loan brokers who act on behalf of potential borrowers. The loan brokers help borrowers to find and obtain loans by obtaining personal data from the borrower searching for compatible loans from the various lenders presenting loan selections to the borrower and performing certain validation or screening tasks such as pre qualification of the borrower. The loan brokers also directly interface with the parties that will fulfill the loan or provide settlement services such as lenders loan underwriters and settlement service vendors.

A broker typically keeps track of pending loans and customers through one or more pipelines. A pipeline generally refers to a list of all loans and or borrowers that are committed and being processed by the broker. A separate pipeline often referred to as a pre qualification pipeline can be used to list prospective loans and or borrowers who are not yet committed to a particular loan.

For purposes of the present discussion a loan originator is any person or entity that helps to procure a loan on behalf of a borrower and can include loan brokers loan officers loan processors correspondent brokers small banks that provide brokerage services and any other similar type of loan procurement company or personnel. As used herein the term loan broker is used to represent any such type of loan originator.

Loan brokers typically execute Loan Origination Software LOS programs to manage the origination tasks in the loan application process for a borrower. In one embodiment of the present invention a processing and submission system is embedded in the broker computer system and is closely coupled to or integrated within the loan origination system program on the broker desktop. This integration serves to streamline the loan submission process and provides seamless connectivity to lenders and settlement service vendors over the network. The processing and submission system provides a direct interface to the loan origination system programs and allows efficient management and transmission of file data present in the broker loan origination software to the lender and vendor computer systems. The processing and submission system thus provides a centralized and comprehensive system for compiling the loan and borrower information populating the loan documents with the relevant data and submitting the completed documents to the appropriate lender and other third parties for review. This allows the broker to capture the borrower data once and publish this data to multiple lenders without having to repeatedly enter the borrower data for each loan application.

In one embodiment the business center contains a network interface that provides access between the loan origination system program and other entities. For the embodiment in which the network comprises the Internet the interface may be a web based interface. In this case the business center includes a web browser client process executed on the loan broker computer. In one embodiment the web browser program is implemented using Microsoft Internet Explorer browser software. The back end processes comprise the processing and submission system servers that provide downloadable program modules to the loan origination program and or perform calculations for the loan origination program. The data storage facility stores various data related to the lenders and users within the system.

The business center process within the data center includes the software module comprising the processing and submission system according to embodiments of the present invention. The business center implements business and processing logic modules for receiving loan application information from a borrower such as 1003 data for mortgage loans storing data related to the borrower providing interfaces to processes utilized by lenders and other third parties that fulfill and settle the loan. In this manner the program modules required for the processing and submission system as well as the interface to the third party entities is embedded directly within the loan origination software executed on the broker computer.

As illustrated in the loan origination system program on the broker computer is coupled through the business center process to loan underwriters lenders and one or more settlement service vendors . These entities perform the function of fulfilling and settling the loan application. These entities generally access the loan origination system program of the broker computer through the web browser interface of the business center . The business center also provides facilities to set up storefront type interfaces for lenders to customize their offerings and provides an information portal for brokers.

One or more of the loan underwriters reviews the loan application and approves or denies the application. One example of a mortgage loan underwriter is the Fannie Mae company which does not itself provide loan funds but works with lenders to assure that the funds are available. Lenders are banks savings and loans or other financial institutions that provide the loan funds. The settlement service vendors provide services and information required to close the loan. Such vendors include appraisers credit reporting agencies document preparers flood certification agencies and the like. Other third party entities that may be interfaced to the broker computer may include loan servicers who collect monthly payments from the borrower and other similar loan process companies.

The loan origination software system utilized by the loan broker can be a proprietary system or a commercially available system. illustrates an embodiment wherein the network interface web browser is embedded within the loan origination system program . For this embodiment the loan origination system software may be a program such as Genesis or Contour which are trademarked products of Ellie Mae Corp. In an alternative embodiment the network interface may be closely coupled to rather than embedded within the loan origination software.

The loan origination system program of system can be included within the loan broker desktop environment of the broker computer or it may comprise a remotely executed program executed on the broker computer or a separate networked computer.

Regardless of the loan origination system program used the loan origination software allows the broker to handle various aspects of mortgage and commercial loan activities such as prequalification origination processing and application management. is a flowchart that illustrates the general steps of processing a loan application through a loan origination system program on the broker desktop according to a method of the present invention. In step a loan origination screen is served by the loan broker for access by borrowers over a network and typically through a web browser interface. File templates which serve as blank loan application forms are then loaded and displayed to the borrower. These are loaded from a database of file templates that are stored either locally on the loan broker in memory such as data storage or in a remote memory location. Various file templates can be defined for different loan types such as conventional loans FHA Federal Housing Authority loans VA Veterans Administration loans and so on.

After the borrower enters the relevant personal and loan information required by the file template and initial loan application form the loan origination system program executes an automatic data flow process step to populate the same information in all of the corresponding fields in all other documents and forms processed by the system that are related to the loan application. This includes other related bank and government forms as well as word processing documents spreadsheets and any other documents with fields that are linked to the original form or other defined fields that are the same as the original fields.

The loan origination system program also automatically calculates relevant field data in any of the fields of the forms that require derivation or calculation step . These can include fields that calculate interest rates for given borrower profile and loan period and amount as well as cash flow or amortization schedules among other calculations. Once the entry field information has been populated for all of the forms and documents and the relevant calculations have been performed the loan application documents are submitted by the loan broker to the appropriate lenders and other third parties. Depending upon the interface between the lenders to the processing and submission process in business center the loan information is input into the lender computer systems in a relatively seamless manner. For example if the interface between a lender and the broker is web based such as the Freddie Mac Loan Prospector system the information is populated directly into the lender web forms. This automated input and distribution system eliminates the need to fill out individual disparate loan application forms and transmit the forms to the various broker and lender sites.

Throughout the process a document inventory tracking process can be used to search and track documents within the system using many different types of searchable criteria such as borrower name loan number data and so on. An on line status checking process can also be included that provides loan application status to borrowers. In one embodiment the document tracking and status checking processes may be implemented to work in conjunction with an electronic mail process to automatically communicate desired information to a borrower.

In one embodiment of the present invention the processing and submission system within the business center utilizes program modules served by the back end process server . The program modules may be compiled programs downloadable script files or other similar type of executable program. These program modules are either directly executable by the back end process or can be downloaded to the desktop environment for local execution. In one embodiment the modules comprise XML to Extended Markup Language in combination with VBScript Visual Basic Script to implement loan originator independent e commerce transactions.

In one embodiment the broker computer is coupled to the third party entities and or the potential borrowers over the Internet network through a web based interface. For this embodiment the loan originator software program executes an embedded web browser program within business center which is integrated with the loan origination program through a program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator . The business center process effectively integrates Internet and web based functionality to the loan origination program . The processing and submission module allows the loan originator to track user clicks on a web page and call local programs and allows for convenient switching between the loan broker computer and the Internet. The processing and submission module primarily serves to download map files from a server present a loan selection panel pipeline and perform the form population of the loan applications on demand. The processing and submission module also allows for downloading of program modules to complete a transaction. For example a DLL Data Link Layer object for a particular credit vendor can be downloaded to the user on request. Other tasks performed by module include performing client side posts e.g. HTTPS Post to submit files to servers receiving credit reports presenting a message list for incoming server messages and centrally tracking transactions on a server.

In one embodiment the processing and submission module also includes an inbox sub module that allows a loan broker to obtain web based applications from the loan origination system. With this module a loan application can be automatically imported into the loan origination software program. This process also allows brokers to access loan files sent from other brokers or branches and receive various reports and certificates. The inbox sub module also provides a history of transaction reports and it provides a mechanism for two way communications. For example a broker web site can send updated loan application data to the inbox module and the loan origination system can update the borrower file automatically.

In one embodiment the business center module provides various operational functions to the loan origination system . These include providing marketing information and messages to the broker allowing lender and vendor selections providing an information portal for the broker and customizing the processing and submission module for use by the particular broker.

The processing and submission server system illustrated in uses the Secure Sockets Layer SSL protocol when transmitting data between client and servers. The transfer of data between clients and server is based on an open and expandable file format with no restriction or limitation on the type or amount of data. The server side modules executed by the loan origination system are typically all Microsoft ASP active server pages and COM component object model modules and new modules can be developed and added to the system depending upon actual implementation requirements or constraints. As stated above the client side of the processing and submission system is implemented through a web browser over an Internet link. This provides a familiar user interface for the client. Instructions for different tasks are presented to the users in HTML Hypertext Markup Language files and communication between clients and server is HTTP based. For this embodiment forms and status data to the clients users can be submitted in PDF plain text format. Although HTML messages can be added certain forms such as mortgage forms are standardized and must be printed in the exact size and format required by regulations. In this case PDF is often the best way to transfer form data for example sending the Good Faith estimate and Truth in Lending Disclosure to the borrowers . The borrowers can then use client side software such as the electronic mail based MortgageMail service to view their Messages.

The processing and submission system illustrated in includes file templates that are utilized during loan origination. This allows for relevant loan information to need be entered only once and not several times for each different form that uses the same information. An automatic data flow process from the origination screen populates the relevant fields in all of the other loan forms and word processing documents. Forms are supported for several loan types which include conventional mortgages FHA Federal Housing Authority loans VA Veterans Administration loans and other types of loans. This automatic data flow eliminates the need to re enter the same information per form and also automatically calculates relevant field data such as interest rates maximum loan amounts cash to or from borrower amortization schedules and the like.

Once information is entered into each data field e.g. name and address of the file template during the loan origination process the information is saved in a database wherein each data field is associated with the particular information entered. In one embodiment the database may be saved in the data storage facility coupled or included within the loan broker computer. When a particular loan form is activated the automatic data flow program conducts a search for each data field and inserts the associated information from the database into the correct position located for the data field. Alternatively each loan form can be modified to insert embedded codes so that the computer program can more easily identify the location of a data field and enter the associated information.

The loan origination system program can be configured to export loan data to different popular formats such as Freddie Mac Fannie Mae and Ellie Mae proprietary format. Once the loan data has been exported it can easily be submitted to the broker computer and from the broker computer to other third parties such as lender .

For embodiments in which the loan originator executes a web browser interface to the processing and submission server specific loan originator request forms can be loaded into the processing client module. In this manner the forms can be populated with loan data that is already entered into the loan origination system so that the broker does not need to re enter the data.

In one embodiment HTTP hypertext transport protocol links are inserted into the HTML hypertext markup language pages served by the broker computer. When these links are selected by a user the information contained in the URL instructs the local processing client how to process the link and what kind of information to submit with the link to the link s destination. For this embodiment the system may incorporate Internet standard protocols by embedding a web browser program in the broker computer and adopting web standards such as XML and VBScript. When a web browser is integrated into the loan origination client system its behavior is fully controlled and customized by the programs provided by the broker computer. Communication with the server is based on HTTPS secure HTTP protocol to transfer data between client and server. In one embodiment the format of the data transferred between client and server is based on an Ellie Mae XML file and Fannie Mae Desktop Underwriter DU 3.0 file.

This embodiment provides a seamless Internet interface to the loan origination system client desktop . This results in an easy to use transaction platform that is robust and fully integrated with the loan originator and enables two way communications so that brokers can receive credit reports underwriting decisions and flood and title certificates within the loan origination system context. The business center interface provides brokers with a single point of access from their loan origination systems to the underwriter lenders and settlement service providers thus streamlining the information data flow and simplifying the task of importing files among the different parties and programs.

The processing and submission system within the business center includes multiple entry points. A loan application and processing transaction on the broker computer can be initiated by launching the loan origination program e.g. by launching the Genesis or Contour program on the broker computer desktop. Alternatively it can be entered through the web browser interface by a partner computer e.g. a computer operated by lender . For this embodiment the broker computer hosts a web page that is accessible through a URL Uniform Resource Locator address maintained by the broker computer.

In one embodiment of the present invention the form fill technique is an intelligent process executed by the broker desktop that formats and transfers the data based on the recognition of defined field names in the object model or the HTML structure of the application form. For example fields can be defined for name and address and upon processing of the form the data associated with these fields is automatically searched and transferred and passed to the HTML web page in the browser. The hidden field technique utilizes hidden fields defined in the partner web page or other customer form entry point. These hidden fields are used to trigger the formatting and transmission of data within the appropriate fields of the application form. Thus the partners define hidden fields e.g. on their web pages to receive the loan application and other data from the broker desktop.

Once the DLL or VBScript is downloaded the data input into the loan application form template or templates by the borrower is extracted formatted validated and then submitted to the partner step . The validation of the data can be performed by the loan broker desktop or by a separate validation process within the back end processes .

As shown in step for a standard Internet implementation the data is transferred from the broker server through an HTTPS XML exchange although various other data transfer protocols are also possible. The data transfer executed in step can be one of three types synchronous asynchronous or polling driven . All data transactions are logged and stored on the broker server step . For an asynchronous transaction the data is received through a message list step . In this step the import program is initialized based on data type. The processing client then uses the resident web browser to display the readable result reports in a browser recognizable format step . Examples of web browser formats include .txt .pdf .htm .doc files and so on.

For data transactions that are either synchronous or polling based the data is returned as a readable report or as data to be integrated to the loan originator and saved locally by the client process step . After this the processing client then uses the resident web browser to display the readable result reports in a browser recognizable format step .

In one embodiment of the present invention the business center process provides an embedded web browser interface to the loan origination program resident on the broker computer. is an exemplary web site home page for the business server process according to one embodiment of the present invention. The business center web page includes several display buttons that allow the user to access various parts of the web site and execute different processes within the system. The main text display area displays various items of information related to the business center. A partner link area provides HTML links to various partner web sites. For example partner lenders may include banks and finance companies such as Bank of America Flagstar Bank GM Mortgage and so on. The loan underwriters can include Fannie Mae Freddie Mac PMI Contract GE AU Central and so on. The links in the vendor section of display area include links to various settlement service vendors such as credit reporting title and closing companies mortgage insurance companies and so on.

The business center web page also includes an account login display area that allows a user to log into and out of the business center system. The system can be configured to manage separate accounts for different users and save user profiles and preferences for ease of use. A submission links window display area includes a list of links to pre defined or often accessed partner cites.

As shown in various other command buttons on the business center web page allow the user to access various processes. For example the user can shop for different loans based on interest rates and indices using option button on web page . This provides access to a separate web page that allows the user to find and compare various loans based on information provided by the user.

Accessing a partner web site through a link provided in the business center web page redirects the embedded or resident web browser on the broker computer to the appropriate partner home page. As stated above the business center provides facilities to set up storefront type interfaces for lenders to customize their offerings. is an exemplary web site home page for a lender partner according to one embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in an exemplary home page for Homeside Lending is shown. This web page is accessed by the user clicking on the Homeside link in the lenders portion of link display area . The main display area is typically used to displays high level information regarding the lender and provide navigation links and instructions to other pages in the web site. The home page includes a display area which allows the user to specify one or more actions to perform. These include locking a rate for a new loan registering a loan viewing the broker pipeline submitting a loan application for underwriting and viewing an underwriting pipeline. Also provided is a display area that provides links to pages that provide descriptive information for the processes available through the lender web site. Similar web pages are provided for the other partner web sites accessible from the business center process.

In one embodiment of the present invention the processing and submission system includes an interface to the consumer borrower . This can be implemented through a user interface such as web site in . This interface allows the consumer to provide certain data such as 1003 data to the loan origination system program . Various different forms can be presented to the user to provide data entry fields. For example illustrates an exemplary pre qualification web page according to one embodiment of the present invention. This web page prompts the user for certain items of information and determines if the borrower prequalifies for the preselected loan or loans. illustrates an exemplary loan shopping web page that prompts the user for certain items of information and finds loans available to the user based on the information. The data entered by the borrower is processed by the processing and submission system and used to populate all of the forms utilized by the partners and .

In an alternative embodiment the borrower interfaces such as those illustrated in may be provided by a partner web site such as by a lender . In this case a partner provides the consumer web interface for the broker and the form data is populated from the partner data.

It should be noted that the web pages illustrated in and are primarily intended for illustration and that the layout and content of the web pages served by the systems and can vary depending upon implementation choices by the lenders and or loan originators. Furthermore a wide variety of web pages can be provided for other aspects of the loan application process and the links illustrated in the Figures.

Although embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to a network implementation comprising the Internet and Internet related web browsing and web serving technologies it should be noted that alternative embodiments of the present invention can be implemented on many other types of networks and network protocols such as proprietary protocols for local area networks wide area networks and any combination thereof.

The present invention has been described primarily in relation to loan applications for personal home mortgage loans. It should be noted however that many other types of loans can be processed through the embodiments described herein such as commercial loans any type of personal loan home equity loans and the like.

In the foregoing a system has been described for processing and submitting loan applications through an embedded loan origination software system and loan processing interface system. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

