---

title: Dynamic categorization of rules in expert systems wherein a profile definition yields classification data that classifies rules and allows for rules to be searchable
abstract: Various embodiments include one or more of systems, methods, software, and data structures for dynamic categorization of rules and collections of rules within a rule base, such as a rule base of an expert system. One embodiment provides a computerized method that includes receiving a selection of one or more identifiers of rules in an expert system rule base and receiving a profile definition, the profile definition including metadata, which when processed, yields classification data that classifies the rules in the expert system rule base of the one or more selected rule identifiers. This computerized method further includes storing the profile definition with an association to the one or more selected rule identifiers of rules in the expert system rule base.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103610&OS=08103610&RS=08103610
owner: Computer Associates Think, Inc.
number: 08103610
owner_city: Islandia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
Expert systems are often used to solve problems in fields involving large number of interacting rules. An example of expert system could be a medical system specifying the symptoms of a patient with possible diagnoses. The collection of rules called a rule base or also referred to as a knowledge base is typically written by domain specialists such as doctors working in conjunction with knowledge engineers. Integrated development tools software lifecycle tools and database tools are used to help manage and control rules and collections of rules at various stages of development. Most of these tools are designed for the development of other types of software module such as application software database applications and services.

For complex and wide deployment of rule bases in expert systems more advanced and specialized rule bases often evolve from the initial versions. Such proliferation of rule bases entails corresponding complexity in the supporting tools to manage search sort compare categorize and audit rules and collections of rules. Metadata such as keywords annotation versioning and other edit time and static time properties can be attached to aid in these tasks. However such metadata fails to take into account property values that are dynamic in nature. For example property values that depend on the values of rule base fields that are inferred from a subset of the rules in the rule base or computed through external code resources and web services.

Various embodiments include one or more of systems methods software and data structures for dynamic categorization of rules and collections of rules within a rule base such as a rule base of an expert system. One embodiment provides a computerized method that includes receiving a selection of one or more identifiers of rules in a rule base and receiving a profile definition the profile definition including metadata which when processed yields classification data that classifies the rules in the rule base of the one or more selected rule identifiers. This computerized method further includes storing the profile definition with an association to the one or more selected rule identifiers of rules in the rule base.

Another embodiment takes the form of a system and includes a processor and at least one memory device coupled to a bus. The system in such embodiments further includes one or more databases holding a rule base of rules and a profile database of profiles including rule classification profiles to classify rules of the rule base. The system also includes rule base development and management software held in the at least one memory device and executable by the processor to receive a rule query against the rule base to execute the rule query to identify rules in the rule base as a function of the rule classification profiles and to provide a result set of identified rules.

Various embodiments herein include one or more of systems methods software and data structures for dynamic categorization of rules and collections of rules within a rule base such as a rule base of an expert system. Some such embodiments include metadata referred to here in as a profile. A profile typically includes executable or interpretive code queries external calls to Application Programming Interfaces API web services and the like and other forms of metadata which may be associated with one or more of rules rule variants collections of rules and rule bases. Profiles when accessed and executed provide dynamic data to classify the one or more rules rule variants collections of rules and rule bases. As a result dynamic searching for rules is facilitated based on changing conditions within an organization employing an expert system including one or more of rules rule variants collections of rules and rule bases with associated profiles. The changing conditions may be fueled by market conditions staffing changes product availability other changing conditions and even passing of time such as moving from annual quarter to annual quarter. Various example embodiments are described below with reference to the figures.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

The databases maybe one or more data stores such as databases files or other persistent media or data structures. The databases may be resident on the server one or more of the clients or on dedicated database host computing devices. The databases include a rule base database and a profiles database . The rule base database includes rules that are operable within an expert system for making decisions. The profiles database includes profiles associated with one or more rules in the rule base database that may be evaluated to identify rules meeting certain criteria.

A profile in the profiles database includes metadata that may be processed to identify one or more properties of a particular rule in the rule base to which the profile is associated. The metadata may include executable code that may be processed to infer or otherwise calculate a property or a likely outcome of the rule to which the profile is associated. The metadata may also or alternatively include a call to an external process such as an API call web service call a database stored procedure call or other process that returns a value that may be used to classify the one or more rules to which a profile may be associated.

As mentioned above the data that may be derived by processing profiles is used in various embodiments to obtain data that may be used to classify rules. Due to the programmatic nature by which profiles may be defined classification based on such data is dynamic to changing data conditions. For example when a profile is associated with a rule that is defined within an expert system to make decisions based on financial data the profile may programmatically derive a value to classify one or more rules based on current financial data. Thus as the financial data such as data from recent sales or account balances changes classification of rules to which a profile is associated may also change.

In some embodiments client users may create read update and delete rules and profiles stored in the databases . In some embodiments the clients may directly access the databases such as through use of a rule and profile authoring application resident on the clients . In other embodiments the clients may access the databases via the server such as in a web based embodiment. In such embodiments the server may include one or more of a web server and an application server process configured to perform various rule and profile functions. In either type of embodiment either the server or the client resident applications may include an inference engine that is operative to process profiles in the profiles database to obtain data to classify associated rules stored in the rule base . In some embodiments the processing of profiles is performed upon receipt of a rule query from a client . In other embodiments the processing of profiles is performed as a batch process. Batch processing of profiles may be performed on an ad hoc basis or on a periodic basis such as nightly monthly quarterly or other recurring basis. The profile processing may involve all profiles or less than all profiles. Some profiles may be processed at different times that other profiles.

The profile database includes profiles that may be associated with one or more rules in the rule base or with the rule base itself. Some profiles may include code that may be executable within an inference engine that is part of the expert system. Other profiles may include external calls to external processes such as other applications databases other systems and the like. The external calls may include API calls calls to web services queries of other databases and the like.

The PROFILE TYPE column is included in some embodiments which may also include other similar columns to provide a mechanism for searching sorting and classifying profiles. The PROFILE TYPE column in the illustrated example data structure is included to identify how each profile record value is calculated by the CODE column. This may include for example an inference code segment a code handle that references code stored in a particular location a reference to one or more records or a stored procedure in a database or other storage location an external call as described above or other types depending on the particular embodiment.

The CODE column includes the code call reference or other data that may be used to generate a value to classify the rule of the respective profile record. The VALUE column holds a value generated as a function of the data in the CODE column. The DESC column holds a description of the profile of a respective profile record. More or fewer columns may exist in such a data structure in other embodiments.

In some embodiments the metadata of the profile definition may include a code segment that is executable to produce the classification data. The metadata of the profile definition may include a call to an external process to obtain the classification data. Such external calls as noted above may include a call to one or more of a web service an API a stored procedure a process on a server or other process.

As a result of the methods and of and respectively a profile may be defined rules identified as a function of profiles and profile values populated to classify rules. These example embodiments and other embodiments including modifications and extension of these methods may be implemented on one or more computing devices such as is illustrated in .

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium is used to medium capable of holding and or distributing software. For example a computer program that may implement one or more of the embodiments described herein.

A further embodiment may be in the form of a system. Such a system may include a processor and at least one memory device coupled to a bus. The system also includes one or more databases holding a rule base of rules and a profile database of profiles including rule classification profiles to classify rules of the rule base. The rule base and the profile may be manipulated and accessed through rule base development and management software.

The rule base development and management software is held in the at least one memory device and executable by the processor. In some embodiments the rule base development and management software is executable to receive a rule query against the rule base execute the rule query to identify rules in the rule base as a function of the rule classification profiles and to provide a result set of identified rules.

The rule base development and management software may be further executable to receive a selection of one or more identifiers of rules in the rule base and receive a rule profile definition the rule profile definition including metadata which when processed yields classification data that classifies the rules in the rule base of the one or more selected rule identifiers. In such embodiments the rule base development and management software is further executable to store the rule profile definition with an association to the one or more selected rule identifiers of rules in the rule base.

Some such system embodiments also include profile software. The profile software is held in the at least one memory device and executable by the processor to process rule classification profiles to generate classification data of the rule classification profiles and store the classification data in association with respective classification profiles for which the classification data was generated. In some embodiments executing the rule query to identify rules in the rule base as a function of the rule classification profiles includes executing the rule query against the classification data of the rule classification profiles.

