---

title: Corrosion-resistant, electrically-conductive plate for use in a fuel cell stack
abstract: A corrosion resistant, electrically-conductive, durable plate at least partially coated with an anchor coating and a corrosion resistant coating. The corrosion resistant coating made of at least a polymer and a plurality of corrosion resistant particles each having a surface area between about 1-20 m/g and a diameter less than about 10 microns. Preferably, the plate is used as a bipolar plate in a proton exchange membrane (PEMFC) fuel cell stack.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07699916&OS=07699916&RS=07699916
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07699916
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080528
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the University of Chicago.

The present invention relates to a low cost durable corrosion resistant electrically conductive plate preferably used as a bipolar plate in a fuel cell stack. One embodiment relates to a low cost durable corrosion resistant electrically conductive substitute for graphite without the brittleness of graphite.

Fuel cells are poised for future power generation providing an efficient and clean alternative to current power sources especially portable or on site power generation. Polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells PEMFC are especially equipped to power the automobiles of the future as they operate at low temperatures and have shown to have high power densities over 2 kW 1 and 1 W cm .

As a single fuel cell will generally not provide enough power for the efficient operation of automobiles or portable electronics generally a plurality of fuel cells are stacked to aggregate their power generation. The fuel cells are each separated by a bipolar plate which electrically connects the fuel cells together combining their power output while also allowing the reaction gases and reaction products to pass to and from the fuel cells. U.S. Pat. No. 4 175 165 hereby fully incorporated by reference describes one example of bipolar plates used in a fuel cell stack. Bipolar plates allow multiple fuel cells to be stacked together aggregating their power in a compact efficient design minimizing size and electrical resistance across the fuel cell stack.

Bipolar plates in a fuel cell stack provide structured surfaces to guide reaction gases and reaction products through defined channels as they enter and leave the fuel cells while also electrically connecting the fuel cells. These bipolar plates therefore need to be gas impermeable electrically conductive corrosion resistant light weight strong flexible and economical to manufacture. In particular bipolar plates must withstand the corrosive effects of the cathodes of adjacent fuel cells the corrosive nature of the reaction gases and reaction products humidity any heat transfer fluids used to cool the fuel cell stack and combinations thereof.

Bipolar plates used today generally use machined graphite plates that are electrically conductive corrosion resistant and gas impermeable. Unfortunately graphite plates are expensive inflexible and succumb to brittle fracture. Attempts have been made to use lower cost and more durable metals such as stainless steels aluminum nickel titanium and other alloys which can be made gas impermeable. However these materials are susceptible to severe corrosion due to the acidic conditions of fuel cells such as PEMFCs.

Some attempts have been made to provide metallurgical coatings to protect the base metals but these have proven to be costly and time consuming. Recently there have been efforts to develop a bipolar plate out of polymer composites however these polymer composite plates do not have sufficient gas impermeability nor do they provided suitable electrical conductivity. Furthermore polymer composite bipolar plates are prone to failure at temperatures over 80 C.

Therefore there exists a need for a gas impermeable electrically conductive corrosion resistant light weight strong flexible and low cost material for use in applications such as bipolar plates for fuel cell stacks.

An electrically conductive durable low cost corrosion resistant plate made of a metal substrate at least partially coated by an anchor coating and a corrosion resistant coating whereby the anchor coating is between and connected to the metal substrate and the corrosion resistant coating.

The corrosion resistant layer is made of a polymer and a plurality of corrosion resistant particles preferably each having a surface area between about 1 20 mgand a diameter less than about 10 microns. The polymer and the corrosion resistant particles of the corrosion resistant coating are made of one or more materials resistant to one or more corrosive fluids or solids. Preferably the metal substrate has a shape and dimensions optimized for the desired use. In a preferred embodiment the plate is a bipolar plate for a fuel cell preferably a PEMFC polymer electrolyte fuel cell whereby the metal substrate provides support and electrical conductivity for the bipolar plate.

It is an object of one embodiment of the present invention for a gas impermeable electrically conductive corrosion resistant light weight strong flexible and low cost plate.

It is an object of one embodiment of the present invention for a gas impermeable electrically conductive corrosion resistant light weight strong flexible and low cost bipolar plate for use in a fuel cell stack.

It is an object of one embodiment of the present invention for a gas impermeable electrically conductive corrosion resistant light weight strong flexible and low cost bipolar plate for use in a PEFC polymer electrolyte fuel cell stack.

An electrically conductive durable low cost corrosion resistant plate made of a metal substrate at least partially coated by an anchor coating and a corrosion resistant coating whereby the anchor coating is between and connected to the metal substrate and the corrosion resistant coating.

The corrosion resistant layer is made of a polymer and a plurality of corrosion resistant particles preferably each having a surface area between about 1 20 mgand a diameter less than about 10 microns. The polymer and the corrosion resistant particles of the corrosion resistant coating are made of one or more materials resistant to one or more corrosive fluids or solids. Preferably the metal substrate has a shape and dimensions optimized for the desired use. In a preferred embodiment the plate is a bipolar plate for a fuel cell preferably a PEMFC polymer electrolyte fuel cell whereby the metal substrate provides support and electrical conductivity for the bipolar plate.

The corrosion resistant coating has a plurality of corrosion resistant particles intermixed with a corrosion resistant polymer . Preferably the corrosion resistant particles are electrically conductive and selected for the desired properties of the plate. For example conductivity may be altered by using various corrosion resistant particles polymers or altering their respective amounts. Furthermore corrosion resistance is also preferably selected for the anticipated exposure of the plate e.g. the one or more corrosive fluids or solids .

The one or more corrosive fluids or solids cause corrosion preferably in metals such as the metal substrate . Examples of corrosive fluids or solids include but are not limited to acids sulfonic acid HSO R 0.5 M HSO hydrated polyperfluorosulfonic acid polymer water oxygen hydrogen and combinations thereof.

The metal substrate is an electrically conductive metal. Preferably the metal substrate is durable and flexible. The metal substrate is preferably made of iron carbon aluminum nickel titanium chromium steel alloys thereof and combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the metal substrate is stainless steal preferably 430 stainless steal or more preferably 316 stainless steal. Preferably the metal substrate has a shape and dimensions optimized for the desired use of the plate. In a preferred embodiment the plate is a bipolar plate for a PEMFC and the metal substrate provides support and electrical conductivity for the bipolar plate. In a preferred embodiment the metal substrate is at least 1 mm thick and the coatings the anchor coating and the corrosion resistant coating are less than 300 microns total.

Preferably the anchor coating has the proper chemical functionalities for bonding the metal substrate to the corrosion resistant coating for the environment the metal substrate anchor coating and corrosion resistant coating will be exposed to for example temperature the one or more corrosive fluids or solids physical forces sheer tensile etc. . . . etc. . . . In a preferred embodiment the anchor coating uniformly coats the metal substrate and is less than 10 microns thick. More preferably the anchor coating is a monolayer coating the metal substrate . Preferably the anchor coating completely coats the metal substrate .

Preferably the anchor coating is a monolayer completely wrapping around the metal substrate . The anchor coating may be a single polymer fiber wrapped around the metal substrate or may be a plurality of fibers in various configurations. For example in one embodiment a plurality of polymer fibers each run along the surface of the metal substrate whereby the metal substrate and the corrosion resistant coating are connected to each polymer fiber at various points. In another embodiment each polymer fiber runs tangential to the surface of the metal substrate having one end connected to the metal substrate and another end connected to the corrosion resistant coating . Preferably the anchor coating is design and configured for maximum bonding between the metal substrate and the corrosion resistant coating . In a preferred embodiment the anchor coating is also optimized for electrical conductivity across the plate.

The anchor coating may be deposited onto the metal substrate using any means known in the art. Preferably the anchor coating is uniformly deposited onto the metal substrate . Preferably the anchor coating is deposited by atomic layer deposition ALD chemical vapor deposition CVD or more preferably by electro static sprayed dipping spray or chemical reaction. In one embodiment the anchor coating is applied to the metal substrate by dip coating the anchor coating onto the metal substrate . In a preferred embodiment the anchor coating is electrostatic sprayed onto the metal substrate .

The corrosion resistant coating is made of a plurality of corrosion resistant particles and a polymer . Preferably the corrosion resistant coating is less than 0.30 mm thick. More preferably the corrosion resistant coating is about 0.15 mm thick. However other thickness may be used for example in one embodiment the corrosion resistant coating is about 0.04 mm thick. Preferably the corrosion resistant coating completely coats the anchor coating . More preferably the anchor coating completely coats the metal substrate and the corrosion resistant coating completely coats the anchor coating .

Preferably the corrosion resistant coating is uniformly deposited onto the metal substrate . Preferably the corrosion resistant coating is deposited by chemical vapor deposition CVD electro static spraying dipping wet spraying or by a chemical reaction.

The corrosion resistant particles are any electrically conductive particles resistant to the one or more corrosive fluids or solids . The corrosion resistant particles preferably are carbides nitrides borides and silicides carbon nanotubes fibers threads cloth foam diamond graphite NbC TaC ZrC TiC NbB2 MoB MgB BaB GdB WB ZrB YB LaB CaB TaB TiB ZrB TaN ZrN TiN NbN CoSi MoSi MoSi TiSi WSi ZrSi NbSi NbSi FeSi or combinations thereof. Preferably the corrosion resistive particles make up about 10 to 90 more preferably about 50 70 weight percent of the corrosion resistant coating. Preferably each of the corrosion resistant particles has a surface area between about 1 20 mgand a diameter less than about 10 microns. In a preferred embodiment the corrosion resistant coating has about 60 percent graphite by weight.

Preferably the corrosion resistant coating is made by grinding a polymer into a fine powder and blending the corrosion resistant particles creating corrosion resistant coating precursor. The precursor is then preferably compressed and heated creating a film. The film is then laminated onto the anchor coating of the metal substrate . In a preferred embodiment the precursor is compressed at a temperature about 250 C. and 5 000 10 000 psi and subsequently laminated onto the anchor coating at 225 C. and 100 psi. More preferably the corrosion resistant coating is electro statically sprayed onto the anchor coating .

The corrosion resistant polymer is resistant to the one or more corrosive fluids or solids while also capable of bonding to the corrosion resistant particles . The corrosion resistant polymer is preferably poly chlorotrifluoroethylene co vinylidene fluoride PCTFE poly chlorotrifluorethylene poly ethylene alt chlorotrifluoroethylene ECTFE polyetheretherketones PEEK aromatic polysulfones or combinations thereof.

The one or more channels each allow a fluid or solid preferably the corrosive fluid or solid to pass along the plate while maintaining the corrosion resistivity of the plate. Therefore the interior of each of the channels is first at least partially coated with an anchor coating . Likewise the anchor coating of the each channel is also coated with a corrosion resistant coating whereby the anchor coating is between and connected to the metal substrate and the corrosion resistant coating . Preferably each channel is completed coated with an anchor coating and a corrosion resistant coating .

In a preferred embodiment the plate is a bipolar plate of a fuel cell stack and reaction gases and reaction product gases are passed through the channels of the bipolar plate for fuel cell operation. Preferably the reaction gases and reaction product gases have at least hydrogen oxygen and HO. The one or more channels may also be used in other applications for example to channel corrosive heat transfer fluids such as salt water petrochemicals acids ethylene glycol alcohols etc. . . . Preferably the one or more channels each run along an axis about parallel to each other whereby the plate can separate two objects providing electrical conductivity and durability while maintaining corrosion resistivity.

In the alternative the one or more channels may have various shapes and sizes. For example the one or more channels may pass one or more corrosive fluids or solids e.g. heat transfer fluids such as salt water petrochemicals acids ethylene glycol alcohols etc . . . to any number of objects. For example in one embodiment the one or more channels distribute various fluids across any number of devices.

Preferably the top plate the first fuel cell the second fuel cell and the bottom plate are the embodiment shown in and having a metal substrate an anchor coating a corrosion resistant coating and one or more channels . Preferably the one or more channels for both the top plate and the bottom plate are on the same side whereby the top of the top plate is flat and the bottom of the bottom plate is flat. Therefore the fuel cell stack having a flat top and bottom can be easily electrically connected as a power source while also providing one or more channels to supply fuel to and from the individual fuel cells.

A first channel and a second channel pass through the top plate first plate and bottom plate at opposite ends. The first channel and the second channel allow one or more corrosive fluids or solids to pass to and from the first fuel cell and the second fuel cell . The first channel and the second channel allow one or more corrosive fluids or solids to preferably power the first fuel cell and the second fuel cell . Preferably the first channel contains a corrosive fluid containing hydrogen and the second channel contains a corrosive fluid containing oxygen and water. In the alternative the second channel may contain a corrosive fluids or solids containing hydrogen and the first channel may contain one or more corrosive fluids or solids containing oxygen and water.

In another embodiment the cathode of the first fuel cell is connected by the first plate to the anode of the second fuel cell which is connected to the cathode of the third fuel cell by the second plate . Other fuel cell stack configurations may also be used. Preferably a top plate and a bottom plate are used as in to provide an electrical connection for the fuel cell stack while also providing one or more channels to supply fuel preferably one or more corrosive fluids to or from the fuel cells.

The first channel and the second channel preferably supply fuel and fuel cell reaction gases and reaction products to and from the fuel cells first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell preferably a stack of polymer electrolyte fuel cells PEMFC . Preferably a first supply stream comprising hydrogen is passed through the first channel and a second supply stream comprising oxygen is passed through the second channel . Preferably the plates are exposed to temperatures less than 250 C. Other fuel cell stack configurations may also be used such as tubular or cylindrical stack configurations. In one embodiment one or more of the embodiments shown in and are used in a tubular fuel cells stack such as the one described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 402 230 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

Preferably a third channel passes a heat transfer fluid through the top plate first fuel cell the first plate the second fuel cell the second plate the third fuel cell the bottom plate or a combination thereof to maintain the fuel cell stack at an optimal temperature. Preferably the heat transfer fluid is salt water petrochemicals acids ethylene glycol alcohols etc. . . .

The fuel cells first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell are each an electrochemical energy conversion device. The first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell each produce electricity from various quantities of fuel supplied by the first channel the second channel or a combination thereof. Preferably the first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell each have an anode and a cathode separated by an electrolyte. Preferably each anode of the first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell is fueled by the first channel and each cathode is fueled by the second channel or vice versa. Preferably the first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell are each a Polymer Electrolyte Membrane PEMFC Phosphoric Acid Direct Methanol Alkaline or Regenerative Reversible fuel cell.

Preferably the first fuel cell second fuel cell and third fuel cell are each corrosive to the metal substrate of each plate top plate first plate second plate and bottom plate . However the metal substrate of each plate top plate first plate second plate and bottom plate is protected from the corrosive effects of the fuel cells by their respective corrosion resistant coating while also being electrically conductive as to aggregate the power output of the fuel cells.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

