---

title: Multiple torpedo mine
abstract: A multiple torpedo mine is capable of launching multiple torpedoes in water simultaneously or at predetermined intervals. The mine has an elongate container having multiple launch tubes with launch tube covers and each containing a torpedo. A programmable target detection sensor unit in the elongate container senses impinging stimuli indicative of an approaching target and generates representative target signals. A main controller in the elongate container is coupled to receive the target signals from the target detection sensor unit, and the main controller is preprogrammed to recognize targets of interest and generate appropriate launch control signals for the torpedoes. A launching system in the elongate container is coupled to the main controller and each of the launch tubes to feed high pressure gas to the base and interior of the launch tubes to launch the torpedoes into the water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08161899&OS=08161899&RS=08161899
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08161899
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080911
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention is a mine capable of neutralization of at least one target with multiple torpedoes. More particularly this multiple torpedo mine uses the same sensors control system container and launch system repeatedly for launching multiple torpedoes at one or more targets.

Contemporary methods of mining waterways or expanses of open water have mines deployed and moored to the bottom and each mine has a single warhead for a single anticipated target. Most of these mines required the target ship to contact or come in close proximity to the mine to be effective. In addition since the target might not come close to more than one mine a single detonating mine might not be sufficient to disable the target.

An improvement over the stationary mine used a bottom moored mine having a single torpedo and associated sensor package. This improvement was known as the MK 60 Captor Mine but it was limited since its single torpedo had only one warhead for one target and was incapable of neutralizing larger targets because sometimes multiple mines could be needed for this task.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a multiple torpedo mine using the same sensors control system container and launch system repeatedly for launching multiple torpedoes at one or more targets over an extended period of time to secure an area of a body of water.

The present invention provides a multiple torpedo mine for launching multiple torpedoes in water. The mine has an elongate container for multiple launch tubes that each have a launch tube cover at an outer end. Multiple torpedoes are in the container with a separate one of the torpedoes being in each of the launch tubes. A programmable target detection sensor unit in the container senses impinging stimuli indicative of an approaching target and generates representative target signals that are coupled to a main controller. The main controller is preprogrammed to recognize targets of interest to generate appropriate launch control signals for one or more torpedoes. A launching system in the container is coupled to the main controller and each of said launch tubes to feed high pressure gas to the base and interior of the designated launch tubes and the torpedoes contained in them to effect launch from the container and into the water.

A main protective top cover at a first end of the container covers all of the torpedoes and an anchor section is provided at the opposite end of the container. The launch tubes extend between the first and opposite ends of the container and the launch tube covers are disposed inside of the main top cover. Connector devices releasably hold the main top cover on the container and release the main top cover to allow jettisoning of the main top cover from the container during tactical deployment of the mine into water. The programmable target detection sensor unit and launch tube covers are in contact with the water after the jettisoning of the main top cover from the container during tactical deployment of the mine into the water. The launch control signals are connected to the launching system from the main controller to activate the launching system to selectively initiate blowing of the launch tube covers off of one or more launch tubes to expose the contained torpedoes to the water. The main controller is preprogrammed to generate appropriate launch control signals to launch the torpedoes at substantially the same time and or at designated intervals as tactically required.

An object of the invention is to provide a mine having multiple torpedoes for neutralizing one or more targets.

Another object of the invention is to provide a submerged moored mine sharing common sensors controller deployment system and launching system for launching one or more torpedoes in different tactical solutions.

Another object of the invention is to provide a submerged multiple torpedo mine having an uninterrupted operational lifetime extending over a prolonged period of time for launching multiple torpedoes at one or more distant ship targets.

Another object of the invention is to provide a submerged multiple torpedo mine using common sensors controller deployment system and launching system to launch one or more torpedoes at one or more differently sized ship targets over an extended period.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to two multiple torpedo mines of the invention are schematically depicted in two tactical deployment modes in a body of water . Mines can be deployed from an aircraft or surface vessel to sink and lie on their sides to extend horizontally at the bottom of a body of water or mines can extend vertically from bottom .

Multiple torpedo mine shown on the left has a weight distribution to lie on its side in a horizontal tactical deployment on bottom and has sufficient weight to be held or moored in place. This orientation of mine allows the shallow water launch of at least one torpedo at a detected target after both a main protective top cover for the upper end of mine and an individual protective launch tube cover for each torpedo have been jettisoned.

The other multiple torpedo mine shown on the right may be preferred for a tactical deployment of mine in deeper water . This vertical tactical deployment allows for a vertical launch of torpedoes the launch of two torpedoes at a detected target being depicted. As the mine shown on the right is being deployed it sinks to bottom . Next a heavy anchor section is released from mine to rest on bottom and a tether line is extended from mine to anchor section . The now buoyant remainder of mine is held or moored some distance above anchor section on bottom in an upright alignment. After both main protective top cover for the upper end of mine and an individual protective launch tube cover for each torpedo have been jettisoned mine on the right can vertically launch torpedoes . Although deploying mine to extend in vertical alignment is more likely to be used for deeper water applications and deploying mine to extend in the horizontal disposition is more likely for shallower applications either of these deployments can be used interchangeably as determined by the mission and the specific deployment selected is not a limitation of the invention.

Referring also to mine is provided with a strong protective elongate cylindrically shaped container . Container is capable of withstanding the shock and rigors associated with being launched into water and dropped to bottom and protecting the torpedoes that are each housed in separate launch tubes . Container launch tubes and all the other structural parts of mine are made from tough non corrosive or corrosion resistant materials that are also designed or selected by those knowle geable in the art to avoid magnetic sonar and electromagnetic countermeasure detection.

Container is closed by main protective top cover that is secured to it by any of a number of well known connector devices mounted on container . Connector devices releaseably hold main cover on container and can be actuated as mine is deployed into water to release or separate main cover from container after a predetermined interval of time or by command when mine is tactically deployed by dropping it into water . Separation of main cover from container exposes the separate individual launch tube covers to the ambient environment. Since the interior of mine can be positively pressurized main cover is assured of being jettisoned from container when connector devices are actuated. Launch tube covers are appropriately retained on the ends of launch tubes to seal and protect torpedoes from the ambient water until they are launched from mine .

Container has a cable reel in a deployment hardware section at the bottom of container to deploy tether line that extends between container and anchor section as shown on the right in and in . Depending on the tactical scenario anchor section can be separated from the base of elongate container of mine and remain at bottom and tether line can be extended from reel to allow a vertical alignment of the remainder of container at a predetermined distance above bottom in a vertical tactical deployment of mine . Optionally anchor section can be kept with the rest of an appropriately ballasted mine for a horizontal tactical deployment of mine at bottom . The length of tether cable can be varied and pre determined before deployment to accommodate different marine topography and tactical applications to provide greater tactical adaptability.

Container houses the operatively interconnected programmable target detection sensor unit main controller including torpedo launcher initiation electronics batteries connected to a power distribution panel that distributes electrical power throughout where needed in mine and torpedo launching system . These components in container are suitably fabricated and packaged to be capable of remaining reliably functional during deployment and deep water immersion in the harsh marine environment and remain operational for prolonged periods during possibly hostile countermeasures. Container locates anchor section cable reel tether cable and batteries at its bottom to purposely be heavier on the bottom than the top of mine to help assure the proper orientation after tactical deployment in the water.

Programmable target detection sensor unit senses magnetic seismic pressure stimuli indicative or representative of an approaching target. A multitude of well known appropriate sensors for sensor unit have been designed to respond to all known emerging modern day threats such as quiet diesel electric submarines mini submarines fast patrol boats and air cushioned vehicles. For example sensor unit could incorporate the sensor unit in the MK 60 Captor Mine system referred to above to identify targets of interest. Target signals shown as arrow in indicative of a detected target are generated by sensor electronics associated with sensor unit and are coupled to main controller . Main controller can be preprogrammed to recognize targets of interest and can generate appropriate launch control signals shown as arrow for launcher system that is connected to each of launch tubes to result in the launch of one or more torpedoes at substantially the same time or at designated intervals as required to neutralize the designated target or targets of interest. In other words main controller is preprogrammed to choose the appropriate torpedo or torpedoes and sequence needed for the right fire control solution for the identified target and initiate launching system to launch them from the individual launch tubes . Main controller is also programmed to ignore signals from sensor unit during the run time of the one or more launched torpedoes to avoid wasting unneeded torpedoes on the same target. After engagement of a target main controller unit will reset the sensors of sensor unit and wait for the next target against which the remaining torpedoes in other launch tubes of mine can be deployed.

Launching system can be much like that used in the referenced MK 60 Captor Mine system with the exception that it is coupled to multiple launch tubes to be capable of selectively launching additional torpedoes at the same or other targets. Launching system includes explosive squib actuated COcartridges or other sources of other high pressurized gases operatively associated with each launch tube that forcefully feed high pressure COor other gas to the base and interior s of selectively designated individual launch tubes and the torpedoes in them. At the same time torpedo launcher initiation electronics of main controller brings the designated torpedoes online to be ready for immediate launch. Once each launch tube is pressurized and each designated torpedo is online main controller activates another explosive actuator of launcher system that is associated with each designated launch tube to blow each designated launch tube cover off to expose the torpedoes to ambient water . In other words the launch control signals from main controller additionally activates launching system to blow launch tube covers off of designated ones of individual launch tubes to expose torpedoes contained in each of them to ambient water . The pressurized COthat was just coupled to each designated launch tube ejects or launches the designated torpedo s from mine as shown by a single launched torpedo in mine shown in the left part or dual launched torpedoes in mine shown in the right part of .

An exemplary torpedo that operates well in the multiple torpedo mine of the invention is the US NAVY MK 46 torpedo. The MK 46 is a compact and lightweight torpedo that has the test of time to back its performance. It is 12.75 inches in diameter by 102 inches long and weights approximately 518 pounds and has a 98 pound warhead composed of PBXN 103 explosive. The MK 46 is sized and weighted right for mine and includes a self contained electrical power source homing sensors guidance system controllable steering fins and propulsion system to provide a high level of performance that makes it an ideal torpedo for mine of the invention. Appropriate flotation and or ballasting can be provided for within container to assure that mine containing multiple torpedoes can be tactically deployed lying on its side on bottom or extending in a vertical alignment above bottom . Other torpedo designs for the torpedoes of mine can be adapted and used as needed and as they are available with appropriate flotation ballasting in mine in accordance with this inventive concept.

Mine of the invention is designed for offensive mining with the emerging modern day threats in mind. When deployed in a tactical scenario mine will either sit completely on the ocean floor or bottom or anchored to the ocean floor with the main part of the mine floating in the water column. When a target is detected at least one torpedo is released. The uniqueness of mine of the invention is that after releasing a single torpedo it will still be operational because it carries a multiple number of torpedoes . Also it can be programmed to release a multiple number of torpedoes simultaneously or in sequence depending on the target that mine is configured or preprogrammed to sense and neutralize.

Operation of multiple torpedo mine can begin when it is operationally planted or deployed by an air or marine craft and target detection sensors of mine begin looking for the target s that the sensor unit and main controller are programmed to detect. Once a target is detected signals representative of the detected target are sent from target detection sensor unit to main controller . Main controller selects the required number of torpedoes to launch to neutralize the target and activates launching system to start the launch sequence. Launching system initiates flooding of one or more launch tubes with pressurized gas by activating the explosively actuated COcartridge for each tube. Virtually simultaneously main controller brings torpedo s online through a fire control cable coupled to each torpedo . Once each selected launch tube is pressurized and each torpedo is running a second explosive actuator not shown for each selected launch tube releases each launch tube cover and the pressurized gas in each selected launch tube ejects and launches its contained torpedo free from mine . After this launch of one or more torpedoes mine shuts down for a period of time while the launched torpedo s home in on the target. This period of shutdown keeps mine from launching any more torpedoes that might be unnecessary while each launched torpedo homes in on its target using its own onboard targeting and guidance system.

After a predetermined period of time has elapsed mine turns back on and starts looking for targets again. If a large target is detected that requires more than one torpedo to be used the preprogramming in main controller can effect the launch of more than one torpedo simultaneously or in a staggered sequence.

Mine of the invention provides the capability of neutralizing multiple targets with a single deployed offensive system. Mine has the capability of being reusable multiple times depending upon how many torpedoes are required to neutralize each target. Mine additionally can launch multiple torpedoes at the same time to engage larger targets in order to neutralize them. Even though there are multiple torpedoes that can be separately launched at different times mine uses the same sensors control system container and launch system repeatedly for each separate fire solution for each torpedo . This tactical capability gives a deployed mine an added element of surprise and confusion to the enemy since another torpedo or multiple torpedoes can not only be launched at one or more target ships when they are first detected but torpedoes can be launched later over a period of time to secure a waterway.

Mine of the invention can be modified and alternate embodiments may be adapted and differently configured to accommodate differently shaped containers than the cylindrically shaped elongate container described for different operational conditions. While the exemplary embodiment shown in the figures has four launch tubes the actual number of tubes selected and designed is limitless. All structural components of mine can be made from a wide variety of tough non corrosive or corrosion resistant materials that will hold up in the harsh marine environment. Mine could be made in different shapes and sizes and use sensor and computing systems other than those described to enable deployment of other types of ordnance to secure waterways for long durations.

The disclosed components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. Mine of the invention is an uncomplicated and reliable application of known reliable components coupled with good engineering for improving long term operational readiness and effectiveness for securing a waterway for extended periods of time. Therefore mine of the invention as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting but rather is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept.

It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

