---

title: System and method for interacting with hard copy documents
abstract: Systems and methods for facilitating user interaction with physical documents. A system may include a physical document interface configured to receive a physical document having a surface including document data items, such that at least a portion of the surface of the physical document is visible to a user. The system further includes a device including a computer-readable storage medium storing program instructions executable by the device to implement an application, which may be executable to display a user interface including application data items, each of which may be selectable via the user interface. In response to the selection of a given application data item via the user interface, the device is configured to cause the physical document interface to visibly indicate a location on the surface of the physical document, where the location includes a document data item corresponding to the application data item selected via the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930642&OS=07930642&RS=07930642
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 07930642
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080320
---
As computing technology for business and personal use continues to proliferate many modes of generating and manipulating information have shifted to the purely digital realm. For example with the advent of electronic commerce paperless transactions in which every aspect of the transaction may take place through electronic exchanges of information have become commonplace. Despite this trend physical documents are still very much in use as sources of information in various contexts. As a result a significant amount of electronic information may originate from and or may need to be validated against physical i.e. non electronic documents.

Interfacing electronic information with physical documents presents a variety of challenges such as that of converting human readable content into a form suitable for electronic processing. This process is often conducted through manual data entry or automated techniques such as optical character recognition. However even the best available techniques present the possibility of introducing errors in the course of data conversion. For example in manual data entry a data item from a physical document may be miskeyed while in automated techniques such a data item may be incorrectly recognized.

Additionally the management of information that occurs in both electronic form and in physical document form may present challenges. For example users who are familiar with a physical document may be unfamiliar with how its data relates to a particular electronic application that uses the data. Conversely users familiar with an electronic application may not be able to quickly locate relevant portions of related documents. These types of gaps may hamper the productivity of users who need to interact with information that is distributed across the physical and electronic domains.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for facilitating user interaction with physical documents are disclosed. In one embodiment a system may include a physical document interface configured to receive a physical document having a surface including document data items such that at least a portion of the surface of the physical document is visible to a user. The system may further include a device including a computer readable storage medium storing program instructions executable by the device to implement an application. The application may be executable to display a user interface including application data items each of which may be selectable via the user interface. In response to the selection of a given application data item via the user interface the device may be configured to cause the physical document interface to visibly indicate a location on the surface of the physical document where the visibly indicated location includes a document data item corresponding to the application data item selected via the user interface.

In one embodiment a method may include a physical document interface receiving a physical document such that at least a portion of a data surface of the physical document is visible to a user. In response to the user selecting a given data item displayed by an application the method may further include the physical document interface visibly indicating a corresponding area within the physical document to the user.

While the present disclosure is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the claims to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

As noted above the use of computing technology for storage and processing of more and more types of content via computer systems and network accessible resources is increasing the necessity for accurate data entry and processing and for mutual verification and cross checking of related documents and applications. With the proliferation of types of content and processing capability and the growing consonant complexity of relevant computing systems there is a need for methods to ease the burdens of operating such complex systems and to mitigate the amount of human effort expended in the entry processing and verification of data. For example the entry and processing of data from physical documents and subsequent comparison of their electronic representations within computer applications can be very laborious for humans. Additionally understanding the relationships between myriad computer applications and related physical documents can require considerable expenditure of human effort especially as the variety and complexity of such applications and associated documents increases. Automated computer assistance in aiding such understanding and in easing the human effort required for the entry and processing of data is sorely needed. The increasing power and sophistication of both hardware and software affords an opportunity to harness their potential to relieve the burden of operation for humans.

In the following discussion various embodiments of systems and techniques for facilitating user interaction with physical documents are explored. In particular a physical document interface configured to facilitate such user interaction is described in detail. By using such an interface for example in conjunction with a computer based application that uses data derived from physical documents a user may more readily identify data discrepancies that may arise from a data entry or data conversion process or may more easily understand how a document and an application relate to one another.

First a general overview of an interactive document system is provided. Next various techniques through which such a system may be employed to perform interactive document management functions are discussed. Finally an exemplary computer system embodiment that may be employed to implement aspects of the interactive document system is described.

One embodiment of an interactive document system is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment interactive document system or simply system includes a computer system that is configured to execute an application . Computer system is configured to communicate with a physical document interface that is configured to receive a physical document .

Generally speaking computer system may correspond to any suitable type of computer system configured to execute applications. For example computer system may correspond to a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant cellular phone media player or combination device or any other suitable type of device. In various embodiments computer system may include a microprocessing system storage capacity input and output systems and or networking capability. Storage capacity may be implemented remotely or locally and may include internal storage or removable media devices. Internal storage may be implemented for example using memory such as random access memory RAM mass storage devices such as hard disks solid state drives disk array controllers or other suitable means. Removable storage media devices may include for example compact disc systems DVD systems Blu ray systems floppy disk drives Zip drives USB flash drives tape drives or other types of devices. Input systems may include a keyboard mouse trackball joystick or similar device. They may also include an image scanner or web cam for image or video input. Output systems may variously include a video subsystem including a video monitor or other display device an audio subsystem or other types of output devices. In some embodiments computer system may be configured to execute one or more operating systems such as Microsoft Windows Apple MacOS Linux or any other suitable operating systems. One exemplary embodiment of computer system is discussed in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of .

In various embodiments application may be configured to perform any of a wide variety of tasks. Application may be configured to display or edit text. Exemplary applications of this type are Microsoft Notepad SimpleText AbiWord Emacs and Microsoft Word among many others. Application may be configured to work with various structured data or forms such as tax forms medical forms insurance forms lottery forms shipping forms order forms tickets voting ballots or any of a variety of other such forms or templates. Exemplary applications may include web browsers tax preparation software accounting software spreadsheet software and many other systems for managing structured data or forms. In some embodiments application may be configured to work with other types of data instead of or in addition to form based data such as graphical or audio data for example. In various embodiments application may be configured to perform any suitable function to process analyze or transform data obtained from input sources e.g. forms files or other sources and or may facilitate the creation of new data. For example a tax application may be configured to analyze input financial data in order to determine tax liability identify tax strategies and the like.

In various embodiments application may be implemented via computer executable program instructions stored by a computer readable medium as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of . In some embodiments application may be executable to display a user interface through which a user of application may interact with various application data items managed by application . For example such a user interface may be configured to display data items to a user such as within a window or according to another display technique. The user interface may also be configured to receive and respond to user input to application such as mouse keyboard touch or other input activity detected by computer system . For example the user interface may implement menus or other control features through which a user may perform various application functions. In some embodiments application data items that may be displayed by and or selected via application s user interface may include audio data items in addition to visual data. In some embodiments application may be configured to communicate with other applications or systems external to computer system for example via a Local Area Network LAN or the Internet. Other types of applications are possible and contemplated. It is noted that while one application is shown other embodiments may include any number of applications .

In various embodiments physical document interface may be configured for both input and output or for output only. In one embodiment physical document interface may be configured to receive tactile input which may include detecting touch or physical objects placed on physical document interface . These may encompass tools or brushes or fingers or other everyday objects or a physical document like a Braille page or other tactile renderings. In another embodiment physical document interface may be configured to receive optical input which may include static or dynamic optical input. For example input of optical data may encompass scanning functionality such as to optically capture an image presented to physical document interface or the detection of motion shape form dynamic or static gestures light patterns or pulses or codes or other detectable optical information. In another embodiment physical document interface may be configured to receive electromagnetic input which may be in the form of radio based signals or data. For example physical document interface may be configured to receive input data from Radio Frequency Identifier RFID tagged objects and or may receive data according to various wireless interface protocols such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi for example. In some embodiments physical document interface may be configured to implement combinations of these types of input and or other input types. Also in some embodiments physical document interface may be configured to communicate received input data to another device such as computer system . While physical document interface is shown as receiving one physical document in other embodiments it is contemplated that physical document interface may receive and concurrently process multiple different physical documents .

Output from the physical document interface may be visible or invisible. Visible output from the physical document interface may be in the form of illumination appearing on the document or in its vicinity. Such visible illumination may appear beneath to the side of or above the document. For example the illumination may be projected from underneath or from above onto the document surface. In some embodiments physical document interface may be configured to selectively provide visible output within specific areas of physical document interface . The selected areas may range in granularity from relatively coarse to relatively fine in various embodiments. For example in one embodiment physical document interface may include a pixel addressable display such as a liquid crystal display LCD . In some embodiments invisible output from the physical document interface may take the form of electromagnetic signals or data including those that are radio based.

One embodiment of the physical document interface may include an ordinary flatbed document scanner configured to provide visible illumination using the lighting element normally used during scanning. In another embodiment an ordinary flatbed scanner may be configured to provide visible illumination by means of an auxiliary lighting element distinct from the lighting element normally used during scanning. In some embodiments the light source enabling output illumination on the physical document interface may be configured to permit selectable illumination. This may entail controlling individual elements of the light source. Such selection may permit the lighting of chosen portions of the document rather than the entire document. For example one flatbed scanner embodiment of physical document interface may utilize a lighting element that is roughly the width of the scanner s document input surface which may be swept along the length of the scanner s document input surface in order to sequentially illuminate an entire document. In one such embodiment illumination of individual elements of the scanner s lighting element may be selectively controlled such that portions of a document on the scanner s input surface may be visibly indicated.

Embodiments of physical document may include structured or unstructured content. Such content may appear as a number of document data items included on a surface of physical document which may correspond for example to a side of the document. Such a surface of a document may also be referred to as a data surface. In embodiments such as sheets of paper physical document may have two data surfaces though more are possible e.g. in embodiments where physical document corresponds to a three dimensional object . It is not necessary that all data surfaces of physical document actually include content.

Generally speaking structured content may include content that is divided into particular document data items such as e.g. portions sections fields or other suitable divisions where the divisions are indicative of information about the content. In some embodiments structured content may facilitate the association of a particular item of content with a corresponding type or category such that the representation of the content via physical document conveys both types of information. For example physical document may be a form having a number of fields that are defined to reflect particular types of information. In one embodiment the structure of the content may be explicitly represented by labels tags or other identifiers of content structure. For example in an embodiment where the document data items include various fields the fields of a form may be individually labeled according to the type of content they represent a field that includes name data may be labeled Name fields that include income data may be respectively labeled Interest Income and Wage Income and so forth. In another embodiment the structure of the content may be represented according to its physical location within physical document . For example numerical data located within a particular area of physical document as defined for instance relative to the document s dimensions landmarks or other frames of reference may be defined as the document data item Interest Income regardless of whether physical document is labeled as such. Exemplary structured content physical documents may encompass tax forms medical forms insurance forms lottery forms shipping forms order forms tickets voting ballots or any of a variety of other such forms or templates.

By contrast in other embodiments physical document may include unstructured content. Generally speaking unstructured content may include free form elements which may not necessarily be associated with particular types or categories indicative of some aspect of the content. For example physical document may include prose as unstructured content. It is noted that in some embodiments even though the content of physical document may be unstructured a structure may be externally imposed upon such content such as by application . For example physical document may include free text that bears no particular organization in terms of fields or categories. In one embodiment application may impose an organization upon such text for example by parsing the text into lines regions paragraphs sentences words phrases or other elements. Some physical documents may be implemented in either a structured or unstructured fashion such as manuals books magazines journals catalogs or any of a variety of such publications which may include text photographs images videos and auditory or other information.

In some embodiments physical document may include special identifying marks such as bar codes or watermarks. Such identifying marks may identify a particular physical document as belonging to a particular category of document e.g. a particular type or class of form and or may uniquely identify a particular instance of physical document from among many or all other instances of physical document . Physical document may also include certain patterning such as crossing points of lines or lengths of lines with the elements bearing certain relationships to each other. Patterns may encompass geometric or other formed data images or character or keyword combinations. In some embodiments such patterns may serve as reference points from which other features of physical document may be identified. In various embodiments physical document itself may be made of or may include paper cloth plastic composite materials semiconductor materials nanotechnology materials or any other suitable material and may be opaque translucent transparent or of variable opacity transparency. In some embodiments physical document may be capable of sending or receiving electromagnetic data or signals and the document may be constructed from materials capable of such sending or receiving. For example in some embodiments physical document may include passive or active technology such as antenna or semiconductor technology configured to emit or to detectably respond to emitted electromagnetic signals such that characteristics of physical document e.g. identifying characteristics may be observed using techniques that do not involve visible or near visible light.

As shown in computer system and physical document interface are discrete components that may be configured to communicate with one another. In another embodiment the functionality of computer system and physical document interface may be provided by a single integrated system. One example of such a system is illustrated in which shows one embodiment of a surface computing device . Generally speaking surface computing device may be configured to execute applications such as application . In some embodiments surface computing device may be configured to support applications and operating systems similar to those executed by computer system described above. One example of surface computing device may include the Microsoft Surface computer.

In the illustrated embodiment surface computing device includes an interactive computing surface . Interactive computing surface may be configured to implement both input and output functionality. In one embodiment interactive computing surface may be a multifunctional device configured to implement some or all of the input and display functions of each of physical document interface and computer system described above. For example interactive computing surface may be configured to support tactile optical and or electromagnetic types of input such as described above. In addition interactive computing surface may be configured to provide visual output similar to that which might be provided by a typical computer monitor or display device. For example interactive computing surface may include LCD display technology combined with a translucent or transparent tactile interface as well as document scanning capabilities. In some embodiments the input output capabilities may be uniform across interactive computing surface while in other embodiments different areas of interactive computing surface may be configured to support different types or combinations of input output functions.

Document engine may perform several functions in the service of correlating physical document and application and the functions may vary depending upon the particular embodiment of the system. Document engine may be configured to receive and interpret data from physical document such as data received from physical document interface as described below. In one embodiment document engine may manage geometric mapping between the physical document and its data and the mapping may be used to establish correlation between physical document and application . For example as noted above physical document may include structured or unstructured content which may be arranged at various locations on data surface s of physical document . As described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of in some embodiments document engine may implement a coordinate system or other suitable system of reference. The coordinate or reference system may facilitate a mapping from information identifying a particular location or area within a data surface of physical document to information that reflects the content indicated at that location or area.

In one embodiment document engine may also be configured to maintain a mapping showing the spatial relationship between physical document and physical document interface . For example such a mapping may reflect the position of physical document relative to physical document interface . Such mappings may be used in some embodiments to allow visual cues provided by the system such as those discussed below with respect to to track physical document if it moves on physical document interface . Such mappings may also play a role in positioning visual cues on or near physical document . Document engine may be configured to provide data indicative of various types of mappings e.g. the geometric and or positional mappings discussed above or any other suitable mappings to application and it may receive corresponding data from application .

In some embodiments document engine may facilitate the recognition of physical objects placed on the physical document interface or of content indicated by such objects. For example document engine may be configured to manage optical character recognition OCR functions in some embodiments which may facilitate the transformation of an image of a character represented on a physical document e.g. of bits representing pixel data into an indication of the character itself e.g. an ASCII code or other uniform representation of the character . Document engine may exchange data related to the recognition process with application . Specifically in some embodiments using character recognition or other techniques document engine may be configured to extract data from physical document and facilitate automatic entry of the extracted data or selected portions of the data into corresponding fields of application .

Document engine may also be configured to coordinate the exchange of data and signals between the physical document interface and application . In one embodiment document engine may send data and or instructions to physical document interface in response to activity generated by or on behalf of application . For example document engine may send visual cueing signals to the physical document interface. In some embodiments the signals may cause selected portions of the physical document to be illuminated as described in greater detail below. Also in some embodiments document engine may be configured to convey information received from physical document interface to application as in the data recognition and extraction examples discussed above.

In some embodiments document engine may be configured to interact with physical document interface via device drivers or other system services that may be provided by operating system . For example operating system may correspond to a suitable version of an operating system such as Microsoft Windows Apple MacOS Linux Unix or any other suitable operating system and may be configured to implement native or third party device support for physical document interface . In other embodiments document engine may be configured to provide its own software driver or other interface support for interaction with physical document interface independently of operating system .

The degree of cooperation and integration between document engine and application may vary in various embodiments. In one embodiment document engine may provide a standard application programming interface API to application through which application may interact with physical document interface . Document engine may be tightly integrated with application such that details regarding application s use of data types and document structure may also be visible to document engine . Alternatively document engine may be loosely integrated with application such that document engine may primarily operate to maintain mappings of application data and document content without being aware of how application is using its data or vice versa. In other instances document engine may be incorporated within application or within operating system and may not exist as a separate entity.

The systems illustrated in or suitable variations thereof may be configured in various embodiments to perform any of a variety of tasks to assist a user in the management of documents. One embodiment of a method of operation of a system such as system is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment operation begins in block where physical document interface receives a physical document such that at least a portion of a data surface of physical document is visible to a user. For example a user may place physical document on physical document interface such that a side of physical document that includes data the user wishes to interact with is facing the user. In other embodiments it is contemplated that physical document interface may receive a document through an automated interface that requires little or no user intervention such as a mechanical document feeder for example.

The user selects a given application data item that is displayed by application block . Generally speaking an application data item may correspond to any data item that may be displayed by application via its user interface such as text data numerical data graphical data or audio data for instance. For example as noted above application may be a tax application that is configured to perform tax calculations using data items derived from various tax related documents such as tax returns wage statements and the like. In this example the user may select a particular financial data item that is displayed by application such as an item of personal income. In various embodiments the user may select an application data item through appropriate combinations of touch keystrokes mouse gestures or other suitable input to application . For example application may implement via menus or other features an interface through which a user may select an application data item for which a corresponding area of physical document should be indicated.

In response to the user s selecting a given application data item via application physical document interface may visibly indicate a corresponding area of the data surface of physical document block . In one embodiment computer system may cause physical document interface to visibly indicate a location on the surface of physical document that includes one of the document data items corresponding to the application data item selected via the user interface of application . For example application may communicate information regarding the selected data item to document engine which in turn may identify one or more locations of the physical document that correspond to the selected application data item. In some embodiments document engine may be configured to actively manage the details of visibly indicating the corresponding area of physical document for example to control the manner and appearance of the visible indication. However document engine may delegate some aspects of managing visible indications to operating system routines software drivers or hardware features.

Continuing in the vein of the tax related example discussed above physical document may be a tax form including various data fields at various locations within the document. In this example document engine may be configured to maintain tables or other data structures that reflect mappings or associations between data items within application and corresponding features of physical document . In some embodiments document engine may maintain data structures that relate various data items within application to areas of physical document from which the data items were directly obtained e.g. such that there exists a direct correspondence between a particular data value within application and a particular area or field of physical document . For example document engine may map an adjusted gross income data value within application with a corresponding field of a physical tax document .

The field of the document may be identified according to a suitable coordinate system. For example document engine may be configured to reference areas of physical document using Cartesian or other suitable coordinates determined relative to the physical boundaries of physical document or using landmarks within physical document e.g. particular textual or graphical features on the data surface of physical document that may be employed as points of reference from which to express the locations of other document features or using any other technique for representing the relationships between features of a document and their locations within the document.

In some embodiments document engine may be configured to relate various application data items within application to areas of physical document from which the application data items were indirectly derived. For example the adjusted gross income data value within application may be derived as a function of other data values that may appear within document data items e.g. fields of physical document such as gross income and various above the line adjustments. In one embodiment document engine may represent these indirect relationships while in other embodiments indirect relationships between data items and other values from which the data items may be derived may be maintained by application transparently to document engine .

In some embodiments visible indication of a corresponding area of physical document may be in the form of illuminating or otherwise visibly distinguishing a portion of physical document itself. In other embodiments visible indication for physical document may appear in close proximity to physical document but not necessarily on physical document itself. For example such indications may appear just outside the periphery of physical document . Still other embodiments may provide visibly illuminated indication both within and outside the periphery of physical document . Depending upon the embodiment visible indications for physical document may appear from above from below or from the periphery. Visible indications or cues for physical document may assume a variety of types and forms and may be combined in numerous ways. In some variations coloring may be used to visibly distinguish corresponding areas of physical document . For instance in the adjusted gross income example described earlier application may highlight the selected application data item using a particular color and physical document interface may highlight the corresponding field of physical tax document in a similar or matching color. In some instances multiple correspondences between physical document and application may be distinguished by assigning a different color to each set of correspondence. In other embodiments correspondences between a selected application data item in application and an area or location of physical document may be visibly indicated using similar display techniques other than similar colors such as similar animation shading or other techniques.

In other embodiments visibly illuminated indications or cues may include balloons or cartoon bubbles which may themselves contain other cues such as text or images. For example in response to a user s selecting an application data item via application the system may illuminate a corresponding area of physical document while simultaneously exhibiting an information bubble at the periphery of physical document where the bubble and the illuminated area of physical document may be joined by a lighted arrow or line.

According to various embodiments visual indications or cues may include coloring lighted regions backlit regions text images information containing balloons bubbles or cartoon bubbles graphical user interface widgets or controls animation connecting lines dotted lines patterned regions arrows lighted lines geometric figures such as circles ovals triangles and squares and so forth. According to the embodiment visual cues may exist separately or in combination and some visual cues may contain or be linked to others. For example a cartoon bubble may contain text along with a widget to play related audio material. Depending on the embodiment visual cues may also be augmented with auditory signals such as beep and bells or human or synthesized speech. Visual cues may or may not be interactive according to the embodiments.

Additionally it is contemplated that in some embodiments visual indications that are generated with respect to physical document may track changes in location of physical document with respect to physical document interface . For example if a user shifts physical document physical document interface may detect the new document location. Physical document interface may responsively remap visual indications such that they appear in the same relationship to physical document as they did prior to the document s relocation. In various embodiments physical document interface may remap such visual indications in a manner that is transparent to document engine or physical document interface may perform such remappings in collaboration with document engine .

It is contemplated that in some embodiments the various types of visual indications described above may be generated with respect to an image or representation of physical document instead of or in addition to being generated with respect to physical document itself. For example in one embodiment physical document may be placed face down on physical document interface which may capture an image of physical document . Physical document interface may then display the captured image along with the visual indications described above. For example an interactive computing surface such as that shown in may be configured to receive physical document in one area of the surface display an image of physical document in another area and display application in yet another area. Other variations are possible and contemplated.

One example illustrating the operations discussed above with respect to is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment application is shown displaying a particular application data item in this case the value 1220.65. In response to a user s selecting this data item a corresponding area of physical document is visibly indicated. As shown in an area of the document corresponding to the document data item 1220.65 is highlighted for example through illumination provided by physical document interface . Various embodiments of the system may render the visual display of application in diverse ways. For example as illustrated in the visible display of application may appear on a computer monitor or other display device separate from physical document interface . In another embodiment illustrated in application may be displayed on an interactive computing surface which is also configured to serve as the physical document interface for physical document . In certain variations like the one illustrated in interactive computing surface may be an element of a surface computing device.

In some embodiments operations similar to those described above may enable the user to determine whether the selected data value within application properly corresponds to a data value indicated on physical document . For example as described in greater detail below the data value within application may have been previously derived from physical document for example by manual data entry optical character recognition or through other techniques. The process through which the data value was derived from the document contents may be subject to error such as data miskeying faulty character recognition or other sources of error resulting in a discrepancy between the data value used by application and the value represented by physical document . In one embodiment the techniques described above may enable a user to quickly determine the area of physical document from which a data value was obtained which may assist the user in determining whether that data value was correctly obtained.

In some embodiments if a user detects a discrepancy between a data value within application and a corresponding value represented by physical document the user may correct the data value within application such as by interacting with computer system . In other embodiments physical document interface may be configured to present an interface through which the user may provide corrected data. For example the user may make a correction directly on physical document and physical document interface e.g. in conjunction with document engine may convert the user s entry to digital data e.g. using OCR or other techniques and communicate the data to application . In another example document engine may interact with physical document interface to present an interactive interface through which the user may enter corrected data e.g. via touch gestures or other suitable input. For example document engine may be configured to present windows cartoon bubbles or other features to the user via physical document interface . In some embodiments such an interactive interface may be employed for original data entry in addition to or instead of correction of previously entered data. In one such embodiment such an interactive interface may facilitate user data entry into an unfamiliar application for example in the event a user is familiar with the structure of physical document but uncertain as to how to interact with application .

As just described embodiments of a system such as that illustrated in may be configured to present information to a user via physical document interface in response to user activity with respect to application . In some embodiments a system such as system may be alternatively or additionally configured to support the reverse operation in which user activity with respect to physical document interface may responsively result in corresponding activity with respect to application . One embodiment of such a method of operation of system is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment operation begins in block where physical document interface receives a physical document such that at least a portion of a data surface of physical document is visible to a user. For example as noted above with respect to a user or an automated interface may place physical document on a physical document interface so that a side containing data faces the user.

The user then selects a particular area of a data surface of physical document block . For example as noted above physical document may be a tax form including various document data items such as data fields at various locations within the document. In this example the user may select a particular area of physical tax document such as a box containing an item of personal income. In various embodiments the user may select a particular area of physical document through various types of input activity that may be supported by physical document interface such as appropriate combinations of touch gesture or other suitable input to select a particular area of the physical tax document . In some embodiments selection of an area on physical tax document may be accomplished directly such a by touching the area with a finger brush stylus or other object. In other embodiments the selection may be less direct. For example the user may simply point to the desired area or may interact with physical document interface through the use of another device or system such as a laser pointer a remotely controlled pointing device or a separate computer system. In various embodiments physical document interface may implement a system for detection of touch gestures light patterns or pulses or other optical signaling. In other embodiments physical document interface may implement a system for selection by means of a movable illuminated pointer. In some embodiments the pointer may project light through physical tax document . In other embodiments the pointer may be projected onto physical tax document from above. In some embodiments physical document interface may be configured to provide feedback to the user confirming the selected area of physical document for example by visibly illuminating outlining animating or otherwise visibly indicating the selected area by providing audible cues such as clicks beeps or voice prompts or by providing any other suitable type of feedback.

In response to the user s selecting a particular area of physical document application may indicate one or more particular application data items which correspond to the selected area of the physical document block . In one embodiment physical document interface may transmit information about a particular selected area of physical document to document engine . For example physical document interface may transmit geometric coordinates identifying the selected area to document engine . Document engine in turn may communicate information regarding the particular selected area to application for example by mapping the coordinates provided by physical document interface to one or more application data items within application as described in greater detail below. Application may then indicate one or more application data items that correspond to the selected area of physical document . For example application may highlight or distinguish the corresponding application data item s using any suitable interface technique such as by altering the color or shading of the corresponding data item s relative to other items employing animation or dynamic display techniques e.g. flashing or alternating content employing audible cues or using other suitable techniques or combinations thereof. As noted previously in some embodiments physical document interface may be configured to receive multiple different physical documents at once. In some such embodiments document engine may facilitate the interaction of a single application with multiple physical documents e.g. coordinating the interaction of a tax application with multiple different types of tax forms such as Form W 2 Form 1099 etc. or may facilitate the interaction of multiple distinct applications with multiple physical documents .

Continuing with the tax related example discussed earlier physical document may be a tax form including various fields at various locations within the document. As noted above in one embodiment document engine may be configured to maintain data structures that reflect mappings between features of physical document such as document data items and corresponding application data items within application . For example such data structures may include mappings between a coordinate system or other system of reference corresponding to physical document and one or more data values within application . In one such embodiment document engine may be configured to utilize such mapping information to translate input data corresponding to the document area selected via physical document interface into information indicative of data value s known to application .

For example a user may select an area of a tax form via physical document interface according to the techniques discussed above. In response physical document interface may be configured to communicate coordinates or other identifying information regarding the selected area to document engine . Document engine may then apply the received information to its data structure to determine what data values within application correspond to the selected area if any. For example the selected area of the document may correspond to an adjusted gross income field within application . Document engine may then communicate to application that the adjusted gross income field has been selected and application may correspondingly indicate one or more application data items corresponding to adjusted gross income. For example application may visibly highlight instances where adjusted gross income appear within application using any suitable display technique.

In some embodiments document engine may employ decision logic configured to resolve imprecise input from physical document engine . For example if a user selects an area using touch or gestures the selected area may not correspond precisely to a field of physical document or a corresponding data value within application in the event that the user s input overlaps portions of physical document that correspond to other document features. In various embodiments document engine may resolve such ambiguity or imprecision by weighting the mapping in favor of a particular portion of the selected area e.g. its geometric center a particular edge or a particular region by analyzing the degree of overlap between the selected area and various possible data value mappings by taking historical or other user context into account e.g. by considering the user s previous selection or using any other suitable technique or combination of techniques.

In some embodiments the relationship between a particular selected area of physical document and corresponding data item s from application may be complex or indirect rather than a simple one to one matching of a selected area of physical document to one application data item within application . In various embodiments document engine may be configured to map a particular selected area of document to data items within application upon which the particular selected area functionally depends or to data items within application that functionally depend upon the particular selected area. For example the adjusted gross income field on physical tax document may depend upon numerous data items from application e.g. wage income interest income etc. that function together to compute an adjusted gross income figure. Alternatively the adjusted gross income field of physical tax document may reflect a data value on which one or more data items within application depend e.g. gross income tax due net refund etc. . In some variations when a user selects an area corresponding to the adjusted gross income field on physical tax document application may respond by presenting highlighting or otherwise indicating several data items used by application in computing the adjusted gross income field on physical tax document or by indicating one or more data items that application determines dependent upon the value of the adjusted gross income field.

As another example physical document may be a post card advertisement for an upcoming concert. Document engine may relate the post card to a web site managing the concert using data from application in the form of a web browser. In response to a user s indicating a price level on the post card advertisement application in the form of a web browser may present an array of available seating choices along with calendar dates and other information. In certain embodiments document engine may represent complex or indirect relationships while in others complex or indirect relationships between data from application and particular areas of physical document may be derived and maintained by application transparently to document engine .

One example illustrating the operations discussed above with respect to is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment physical document is shown with a particular area namely a box or field containing the value 763.20. In response to a user s selecting this particular area of physical document corresponding data items are indicated in application . As shown in in this example two data fields within application are highlighted where each highlighted field contains a data value corresponding to the one selected by the user. For example the highlighted fields may be data values within application that correspond to instances of the data field selected within physical document . In other instances the highlighted fields within application may correspond to data values that functionally depend on the data field selected within physical document or data values on which the data field selected within physical document functionally depends. Various embodiments of the system may render the visual display of application in diverse ways. For example as illustrated in the visible display of application may appear on a computer monitor or other device separate from physical document interface . In another embodiment illustrated in application may be displayed on an interactive computing surface that is also configured to serve as the physical document interface for physical document . In certain variations like the one illustrated in interactive computing surface may be an element of a surface computing device.

In some embodiments operations similar to those described above may enable the user to determine whether selected particular areas from physical document and the data they contain properly correspond to data values indicated within application . For example as noted above with respect to errors may occur in the entry of data values into application from physical document . Using the techniques described above with respect to a user may be able to quickly verify whether data within a particular area of physical document properly corresponds to data item s within application . In other instances the techniques described above may enable a user to explore dependency relationships pertaining to a familiar or unfamiliar document. For example using the above techniques a user may select a particular data field within physical document and observe via application those data values that rely on the particular data field or those data values on which the particular data field relies. This may enable a user to understand the significance or scope of a discrepancy between physical document and application or may enable a user to understand more generally the significance of various data fields of physical document as they relate to application .

As described in detail above in various embodiments a user may interact with physical document in a variety of ways via physical document interface . When a user initially begins working with a particular physical document physical document interface document engine and or application may be initialized with respect to the particular physical document in a number of ways. In one embodiment the user may explicitly provide to application or to document engine information sufficient to identify a type and or a unique instance of physical document . For example the user may select the document type from a list or may supply document identifier s that are generic to a document type e.g. IRS Form 1040 . The user may also supply information that narrows physical document to a particular instance e.g. a Social Security Number identifying a particular Form 1040 .

In another embodiment physical document interface may capture information from physical document that may facilitate automatic document identification. For example the user may initially place physical document face down on physical document interface and image data may be captured from the document s data surface. Such data may be processed for example by document engine to identify physical document . For example document engine may apply OCR techniques to attempt to identify physical document from textual features. Document engine may also identify physical document from bar codes graphical features or other identifying marks. In some embodiments the arrangement of features on a particular physical document may form a signature that may be sufficient for document engine to generically or uniquely identify the document for example through application of a hash algorithm or other suitable algorithm.

In some embodiments automatic identification of physical document may occur using image data captured from a surface other than the document s data surface. For example depending on factors such as the translucency of the document and capabilities of physical document interface sufficient identifying information may be obtained from the reverse side of a physical document that is placed face up on physical document interface . In other embodiments physical document may be identified on the basis of other document characteristics such as its electromagnetic characteristics an RFID tag or any other suitable characteristics.

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any of the methods techniques or components described above may be implemented as instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the various methods of user interaction with physical documents described above with respect to . In particular any of application document engine operating system or other suitable combinations or partitions of the functionality of these entities may be implemented as such instructions. Such instructions may be executed to perform a particular computational function such as generating sending or receiving a message to implement mathematical functions such as integration differentiation convolution etc. as well as to implement higher order functions such as operating system functionality network communications functionality application functionality and or any other suitable functions.

One exemplary embodiment of a computer system including tangible computer accessible storage media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . In different embodiments system may be variously configured as a server system a desktop or notebook system an embedded system a handheld or portable client system etc. In various embodiments computer system may be representative of computer system of or surface computing device of .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment instructions and data implementing desired functions methods or techniques such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code . It is noted that in some embodiments code may include instructions and data implementing desired functions that are not directly executable by processor but are represented or encoded in an abstract form that is translatable to instructions that are directly executable by processor . For example code may include instructions specified in an ISA that may be emulated by processor or by other code executable on processor . Alternatively code may include instructions procedures or statements implemented in an abstract programming language that may be compiled or interpreted in the course of execution. As non limiting examples code may include code specified in a procedural or object oriented programming language such as C or C a scripting language such as perl a markup language such as HTML or XML or any other suitable language.

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems or communications devices for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system and client devices and or other servers services through various communications channels via network s . These client devices may include various computing and communications devices which may include elements similar to those of computer system . In particular client devices may include devices associated with various ones of other nodes such as personal computers telephony devices or other network attached computing devices that users may employ to access network services such as the message services offered by logical mesh network for example. The communications channels may include but are not limited to conventional and mobile telephone and text messaging communications channels. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a tangible computer accessible storage medium configured to store instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments instructions and or data may be stored upon and retrieved from different types of computer accessible storage media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. A computer accessible medium may generally be accessible via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

It is noted that the various methods illustrated in the figures and described above represent exemplary embodiments of methods. These methods may be implemented in software hardware or any suitable combination thereof. Where suitable the order of operation of method elements is not restricted to the order described or shown and in other embodiments various method elements may be performed in a different order. It is also contemplated that in various embodiments not all method elements need be performed and existing method elements may be modified or additional elements added.

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications. Accordingly the above description is to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

