---

title: Electrical and elastomeric disruption of high-velocity projectiles
abstract: According to typical inventive practice, an armor structure includes n≧1 highly-rate-sensitive elastomeric layers and n+1≧2 metallic layers, alternately configured. Each metallic layer is electrically connected to a power supply that includes, e.g., battery(ies) and/or supercapacitor(s). Each adjacent pair of metallic layers sandwiches a highly-rate-sensitive elastomeric layer and forms, with the power supply, an uncompleted electrical circuit. A high-velocity projectile that penetratively encroaches upon a highly-rate-sensitive elastomeric layer is subjected to electrical current by virtue of completion of the uncompleted circuit that includes the two sandwiching metallic layers. The circuit is completed by physical (and hence, electrical) contact, bridging the two sandwiching metallic layers, of the projectile and/or its plasma sheath (which at least partially surrounds the projectile's outside surface due to friction between the projectile and the highly-rate-sensitive elastomeric layer). The highly-rate-sensitive elastomeric layer's projectile-hindering mechanical influence temporally lengthens the projectile-hindering electrical influence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07946211&OS=07946211&RS=07946211
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07946211
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 11 443 845 filed 22 May 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 794 808 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Elastomeric Damage Control Barrier joint inventors Philip John Dudt and Roshdy George S. Barsoum U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0093158 A1 published 26 Apr. 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10 864 317 filed 10 Jun. 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 300 893 B2 issued 27 Nov. 2007 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0111621 A1 published 17 May 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 564 584 filed 23 Apr. 2004 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to methods devices systems structures and materials for protecting entities from physical harm more particularly to armor protection of persons or things from injury or damage caused by explosive or ballistic events.

Thick and heavy metallic armor such as made of steel is capable of defeating high velocity projectiles but is not feasible for many applications. For instance it may be practical to equip a 110 ton tank but not a 30 ton truck with thick and heavy metallic armor. The drawbacks of massive solid metallic all metallic armor e.g. increase in vehicular weight decrease in vehicular range decrease in vehicular speed decrease in mean time between vehicular repairs and decrease in vehicular lifetime are especially manifest for applications involving smaller lighter vehicles such as trucks high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles HMMWVs popularly referred to as HUMVEE s and other mobile land vehicles.

The term metallic as used herein broadly refers to any metal inclusive homogeneous material such as an elemental metal or a metal alloy. Armor systems have been considered that utilize non metallic e.g. polymeric or ceramic materials that are lighter than metallic armor materials but these armor systems can be expensive and are not entirely satisfactory in defending against high velocity projectiles such as explosively formed projectiles EFPs which are designed to hurl fragments at high velocities upon detonation of an explosive. It remains desirable in the art to devise an armor system that is relatively inexpensive that is suitable for smaller lighter vehicles and that more effectively protects the occupants of the vehicles from harm caused by high velocity projectiles.

In view of the foregoing an object of the present invention is to provide a reasonably economical armor system suitable for mobility purposed vehicles that affords greater protection of vehicular occupants from high velocity projectiles.

As typically embodied the present invention s armor system comprises a first rigid electrically conductive plate a second rigid electrically conductive plate an elastomeric layer between the first plate and the second plate and an electrical power supply. The electrical power supply is electrically connected to the first plate and the second plate so as to form an electrical circuit that is open between the first plate and the second plate. Electrification is effected upon closure of the electrical circuit of a moving projectile that penetrates the first plate so that at least a portion of the projectile is situated in the elastomeric layer. The closure of the electrical circuit is effected upon establishment between the first plate and the second plate of electrical connectivity via either the projectile or the plasma sheath or both the projectile and the plasma sheath. The plasma sheath at least partially envelops the projectile and is thermally generated in the elastomeric layer in association with friction of the elastomeric layer with respect to the at least a portion of the projectile that is situated in the elastomeric layer. The electrification of the projectile is sustained while either the projectile or the plasma sheath or both the projectile and the plasma sheath is are in contact with each of the first plate and the second plate. The first plate and the second plate each at least substantially consist of a metallic material. The strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomeric layer at least substantially consists of a polymeric material such as polyurethane or polyurea or a mixture of polyurea and polyurethane. The strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomeric layer affects the projectile by causing decrease in the projectile s speed and or change of the projectile s direction and or degradation of the projectile. This affecting of the projectile by the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomeric layer increases the time during which the at least a portion of the projectile is situated between the first plate and the second plate thereby increasing the time during which the closure of the electrical circuit is effected. In the time during which the closure of the electrical circuit is effected the electrification and the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomeric layer each affect the projectile by causing causing decrease in the projectile s speed and or change of the projectile s direction and or degradation of the projectile.

According to typical inventive practice the present invention succeeds in defeating high velocity projectiles in doing so the present invention uniquely features the use of highly rate sensitive strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomeric material in combination with the effectuation of electrical discharge e.g. capacitive discharge or battery discharge at comparatively low energy levels by rigid electrically conductive plates. The present invention as typically embodied is characterized by a synergy of the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer and the rigid electrically conductive plates that sandwich it. The two main projectile disruptive components of the inventive armor system are a mechanical component and an electrical component. The plates facilitate the strain rate sensitivity hardening of the elastomer the elastomer facilitates the electrical conduction by the plates and the plates and the elastomer together exert degradative forces that defeat an intruding projectile.

A strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer has a propensity toward transient high rate dynamic mechanical strength elevations. As typically embodied by the present invention this propensity is enhanced by the constraining of the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer by the two rigid electrically conductive plates between which the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer is sandwiched and bonded this confined condition i.e. between the two plates further elevates the strength and modulus of the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer. During a dynamic event the present invention s strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer acts upon a transiting projectile in physical ways e.g. change of speed change of direction deformation that result in a longer duration of the projectile s transit across the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer thereby affording a longer duration of the present invention s electrical connectivity. During the time of the present invention s electrical connection the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer and the electrification act independently and in concert upon the transiting projectile so as to bring about further degradation of the projectile. In addition the elevated mechanical strength of the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer enables it to more effectively share loads with the two sandwiching rigid electrically conductive plates thereby even further improving resistance of the back plate to perforation.

As typically embodied an inventive armor system includes at least two electrically conductive e.g. metal plates at least one layer of highly rate sensitive elastomer and an electrical power source. According to typical inventive practice the highly rate sensitive elastomer is electrically nonconductive insulative . Strong electrically conductive materials that may be suitable for practicing the inventive plates include but are not limited to steel titanium titanium alloy aluminum aluminum alloy and other metals and alloys. Each electrically conductive plate is connected to the electrical power source e.g. a battery or a bank of supercapacitors which supplies electrical current. The electrical power source is capable of delivering a large amount of electrical power e.g. electrical current in a very short period of time. The electrically conductive plates are separated by the highly rate sensitive polymer each adjacent pair of electrically conductive plates having a highly rate sensitive polymer layer situated therebetween. Each contiguous plate polymer plate trio describes a sandwich construction of two electrically conductive outside plates and a highly rate sensitive polymer core.

When a high speed projectile penetrates an electrically conductive plate and at least partially penetrates the adjoining highly rate sensitive polymeric layer an electrical connection is formed between the two adjacent electrically conductive plates thereby completing closing the circuit of the two electrically conductive plates with the electrical power source. While the circuit is closed completed electricity e.g. electrical current is conducted between the two electrically conductive plates. During the time that the penetrative projectile is in transit across the intermediate highly rate sensitive polymeric layer an extremely high temperature is associated with the friction of the penetrative projectile with respect to the intermediate highly rate sensitive polymeric layer. This extreme heat causes a carbonaceous plasma to emanate from the highly rate sensitive elastomer elastomers such as polyurea and polyurethance contain carbon and to at least partially surround the penetrative projectile as a plasma sheath. The plasma that at least partially envelopes the penetrative projectile is electrically conductive since a plasma is an ionized gaseous substance that includes freely moving charged particles. The electrical connection between the two adjacent electrically conductive plates is effected and sustained while each of the two adjacent electrically conductive plates is contacted by the electrically conductive penetrative projectile or the electrically conductive plasma sheath or both the electrically conductive penetrative projectile and the electrically conductive plasma sheath. That is the plasma sheath and or the penetrative projectile physically and hence electrically join the two electrically conductive plates that sandwich the highly rate sensitive polymeric layer. Even in cases in which the penetrative projectile is not electrically conductive the electrically conductive plasma sheath can act alone to electrically bridge the gap between the two adjacent electrically conductive plates.

Upon completion closure of the circuit a high electrical current level is activated. The penetrative projectile is acted upon by the high current conducted through the circuit. The high current acts to slow the projectile deflect the projectile from the projectile s path distend the projectile s geometry encourage breakup of the projectile impart heat to the projectile s surface This heat also promotes breakup of the projectile . In addition the highly rate sensitive elastomer acts to change the velocity of the penetrative projectile in terms of both slowing of the projectile s speed and altering of the projectile s direction.

The highly rate sensitive elastomer thus serves to increase the time period of the penetrative projectile s traversal of the gap which the highly rate sensitive elastomer fills between the two adjacent electrically conductive plates. The increase in traversal duration is beneficial because the time is extended during which the electrical circuitry can be switched to the closed position and the circuitry can be maintained in a closed state thereby extending the time during which the accompanying electrical energy can act upon the penetrative projectile. Moreover the increase in amount of electro influential time permits lower levels of electrical current to be conducted in order to defeat the penetrative projectile. The present invention thus advantageously permits use of low power electrical units that tend to be light low cost e.g. implementing commercial off the shelf components and portable. For instance supercapacitors also known as ultracapacitors are commercially available from companies such as Maxwell Technologies Inc. 9244 Balboa Avenue San Diego Calif.

The term elastomer as used herein broadly refers to any material polymeric or non polymeric having elastic e.g. viscoelastic physical character regardless of whether it includes at least one structural material e.g. a plasticizer or an antioxidant that is incorporated therein for at least one enhancement purpose. An elastomer can represent either a single elastomeric material or a mixture e.g. blend of plural elastomeric materials or a mixture e.g. blend of either of these elastomer categories with one or more enhancement materials such as plasticizers or antioxidants.

Strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomers are disclosed by the aforementioned Barsoum et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 300 893 B2 issued 27 Nov. 2007 incorporated herein by reference and by the aforementioned co pending application published 26 Apr. 2007 as U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0093158 A1 incorporated herein by reference. According to typical inventive practice the present invention s elastomer is a strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer. The terms highly rate sensitive elastomer highly strain rate sensitive elastomer rate sensitivity hardening elastomer and strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer are used interchangeably herein to refer to an elastomer that is characterized by the ability under ballistic conditions and or blast conditions to practically immediately react to impact so as to rigidify while absorbing impact related energy and to then practically immediately return to its elastic non rigid condition.

A typical strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer that is suitable for inventive practice is characterized by high strain rate sensitivity strain rate sensitivity hardening with respect to strain rates in the range of approximately 1 000 second to approximately 1 000 000 second. The term range is intended herein to be inclusive i.e. to include the delimiting e.g. upper and lower values of the range. Depending on the inventive embodiment the inventive highly strain rate sensitive elastomer may also be characterized by high strain rate sensitivity outside of this 10 sec 10 sec range of strain rates. According to usual inventive practice the strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer is polymeric. Strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomers suitable for inventive practice include but are not limited to polymeric substances from the polyurea family the polyurethane family and both the polyurea and polyurethane families. A frequently preferred strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer for inventive practice is a polyurea or a mixture e.g. blend of polyurea and polyurethane.

A strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer has the quality of reacting instantaneously to impact for instance at strain rates in the 10 sec 10 sec range so as to temporarily become significantly more rigid than it is in its normal non impacted state and of then returning to its normal elastic e.g. viscoelastic state shortly after absorbing energy associated with the impact. Otherwise expressed a strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer is in an elastic state before absorbing energy from a projectile then tends toward a rigid state i.e. hardens or stiffens when absorbing energy from the projectile and then tends toward an elastic state after absorbing energy from the projectile. A strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer exhibits greatly increased transient mechanical property changes under rapid loading such as when exposed to explosively generated forces and exhibits high elongations during and after load removal.

Generally speaking a strain rate sensitivity hardening elastomer characterized by high strain rate sensitivity in this 10 sec to 10 sec approximate range of strain rates will be characterized by a much higher Young s modulus and a much higher yield strength elevation when subjected to strain rates in this 10 sec to 10 sec range as compared with Young s modulus and yield strength elevation when subjected to strain rates in much lower ranges. By way of example Young s modulus at typical static or quasi static strain rates e.g. strain rates of approximately 10 sec is in the approximate range of 1 000 psi to 6 000 psi. Young s modulus at strain rates in the approximate range of 10 sec to 10 sec is in the approximate range of 350 000 psi to 500 000 psi. Yield strength elevation at strain rates of approximately 10 sec is in the approximate range of 2 000 psi to 4 000 psi. Yield strength elevation at strain rates in the approximate range of 10 sec to 10 sec is in the approximate range of 70 000 psi to 80 000 psi or greater.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to the inventive armor system includes armor structure electrical power supply and electrical conductors e.g. wires . Electrical power supply is electrically connected via electrical conductors to the two plates viz. plate A and plate B. Plates A and B respectively constitute the negative and positive electrodes of an open but closable circuit described by plates A and B conductors and power supply . Armor structure represents a composite laminar material system more specifically a sandwich construction that includes two outside rigid electrically conductive e.g. metallic plates and therebetween a core layer of highly rate sensitive elastomer .

Plates A and B are shown to be planar parallel and geometrically congruent. Plate A the front strike plate relative to projectile has a flat front strike surface Aand a flat back surface A. Plate A the back plate relative to projectile has a flat front strike surface Band a flat back surface B. Plate surfaces A A B and Bare parallel to each other. A planar parallel configuration of the electrically conductive plates is typical of inventive practice nevertheless the present invention can be practiced whereby at least one plate is curved and or the plates are not parallel and or the plates geometrically differ. Moreover the elastomeric layer is shown to be much thicker than each of the plates which is typical of but not necessary for inventive practice.

Projectile is shown traveling along a trajectory T toward and verging on penetrating the inventive armor structure . Projectile s trajectory T is shown for illustrative purposes to be perpendicular to front plate surface Aand to armor structure generally in actual practice it is possible that an inventive armor structure encounter a projectile that approaches from any angle. With reference to through projectile continues to travel upon reaching inventive armor structure .

For illustrative purposes projectile is shown in through to continue in a trajectory T that defines a straight and perpendicular path. The time that it takes for the high velocity to penetrate and be stopped by inventive armor structure is to be understood to be a very small fraction of a second. It is to be further understood that the inventive armor system which can be variously embodied will frequently influence an impinging projectile so as to change its trajectory T such as depicted by way of example in .

As shown in projectile begins its intrusion by passing through front surface Aand into front plate A. Once projectile completely penetrates front plate A passing through back surface Aand slightly entering elastomeric layer the highly rate sensitive elastomeric layer begins to act upon projectile .

As shown in a carbonaceous plasma sheath forms around the portion of projectile that protrudes into elastomeric layer . The plasma sheath that partially envelops projectile has not yet reached the inside surface Bof back plate B. As projectile proceeds deeper into elastomeric layer a larger portion of projectile is exposed to elastomeric layer and a commensurately larger plasma sheath envelops the exposed portion of projectile .

As shown in projectile having moved closer to surface Bof back plate B its plasma sheath reaches the front surface Bof back plate B. At this point the electrical circuit that is incompletely formed by electrically conductive plates A and B and power supply is completed by the unified body that includes projectile and plasma sheath . In effect plasma sheath extends lengthens projectile in a forward direction so as to reach front surface Bof back plate B. By virtue of projectile contacting front plate A and plasma sheath contacting back plate B the electrical connection is effected in a manner akin to closure of a switch thereby completing activating the circuit.

Note that as shown in plasma sheath also contacts front plate A but this is probably not necessary to effectuation of the electrical connection. Generally speaking if a projectile makes direct contact with a plate such contact electrically suffices with respect to that plate .

The projectile plasma sheath combination continues to move generally forward all the while maintaining contact with both front plate A and back plate B so as to sustain the electrical connection of the circuitry. As shown in projectile effects the electrical connection on its own as projectile has moved sufficiently forward that it directly contacts back plate B while still contacting front plate A. Again plasma continues to contact both front plate A and back plate B but it is likely that neither contact by plasma is necessary for effecting the electrical connection vis vis the corresponding plate .

While the circuit is in an activated state electrical current generated by power supply e.g. one or more batteries or one or more capacitors or one or more supercapacitors or some combination thereof pulses or surges through projectile thereby affecting projectile in terms of its speed direction and physical form e.g. by causing projectile to deform and or break up . All the while that at least a portion of projectile is situated within elastomeric layer a time frame that includes both a duration that the electrical circuit is inactive open and a duration that the electrical circuit is active closed the highly strain rate sensitive elastomer exerts its own influence upon the projection in terms of speed direction and physical form e.g. by causing projectile to deform and or break up .

The sequence through and the sequence through each illustrate the present invention s projectile defeating physical mechanism with respect to a smaller projectile than the projectile shown in through . The inventive projectile defeating mechanics are similar in each of the three sequences viz. through through and through . The projectile of through is the largest of the three the projectile of through is the smallest of the three and the projectile of through FIG. is medium sized of the three. In each of these time sequence examples the electrical circuit is connectively completed by at least one of i projectile and ii plasma sheath . In other words the electrical circuit may be connectively completed by either projectile alone or by both projectile and plasma sheath or by plasma sheath alone. When plasma sheath participates in the connection it extends lengthens projectile in either or both of a backward direction and a forward direction so as to reach either or both of the front plate A and the back plate B.

As shown in projectile begins to enter front plate A at front surface A. As shown in carbonaceous plasma sheath forms around the portion of projectile that protrudes into elastomeric layer but this plasma sheath falls short of the front surface Bof back plate B. As shown in projectile having moved completely clear of front plate A and closer to surface Bof back plate B plasma sheath completely envelops projectile thereby reaching both front and back i.e. both the back surface Aof front plate A and the front surface Bof back plate B whereupon the electrical circuit is completed by the unified body that includes projectile and plasma sheath . Damage which includes a perforation results in front plate A from the passage therethrough of projectile . In effect plasma sheath shown in extends lengthens projectile in both a backward direction and a forward direction so as to reach both the front plate A and the back plate B.

As shown in projectile begins to enter front plate A at front surface A. As shown in carbonaceous plasma sheath forms around the portion of projectile that protrudes into elastomeric layer but this plasma sheath falls short of the front surface Bof back plate B. As shown in projectile having moved closer to surface Bof back plate B plasma sheath envelops most of projectile thereby reaching the front surface B of back plate B. Damage which includes a perforation through hole results in front plate A from the passage therethrough of projectile . The electrical connection shown in is made via projectile with respect to front plate A and via plasma sheath with respect to back plate B. Projectile continues to move toward back plate B and during a very brief period after the snapshot shown in but before the snapshot shown in an electrical connection is made via plasma sheath with respect to both front plate A and back plate B similarly as shown in . As shown in the electrical connection is made via plasma sheath with respect to front plate A and via projectile with respect to back plate B.

The damage B to plate B shown in is significantly mitigated vis vis what it would be in the absence of both the highly strain rate sensitive elastomer and the circuitous electrification. Depending on the inventive embodiment the encountered projectile and the attendant mechanics and dynamics damage B may or may not include a slight perforation B. Although a completely non perforated back plate B is usually associated with greater protectiveness than a slightly perforated back plate B even the latter consequence of inventive practice will afford adequate protection under most circumstances.

The present invention admits of practice involving one or more elastomeric layers and two or more rigid electrically conductive plates e.g. metal plates . According to usual inventive practice two electrically conductive plates are at the extreme ends e.g. front and back of the inventive armor structure with the plates and the electrically nonconductive elastomeric layers alternating with each other. Mathematically expressed the number of elastomeric layers is n and the number of plates is n 1. The plates are connected to a power supply including one or more power sources so that each adjacent pair of plates has an elastomeric layer therebetween and constitutes the positive and negative electrodes of the same circuit.

With reference to through a propitious mode of inventive practice for some applications provides for three electrically conductive plates and two highly strain rate sensitive elastomeric layers alternately configured. Inventive armor structure shown in and is not unlike a double decker sandwich. Front plate A has a front surface Aand a back surface A. Middle plate B has a front surface Band a back surface B. Back plate C has a front surface Cand a back surface C. Plates A B and C are each connected via conductor to a power supply so that each adjacent pair of plates i.e. wherein the first adjacent pair is plates A and B and the second adjacent pair is plates B and C represents an electrode pair amenable to mutual electrical connection via passage therethrough of a projectile and the accompanying formation of a plasma sheath .

Note that perforations through holes A and B result in plates A and B respectively but no perforation results in plate C. Projectile causes damage A which includes perforation A in plate A damage B which includes perforation B in plate B damage C which does not include any perforation in plate C. Perforation B in plate B is much smaller than perforation A in plate A . It is thus seen that the back plate C though damaged e.g. dented is entirely non perforated thus remaining sufficiently intact to entirely prevent penetration of projectile or harmful pieces fragments debris thereof. The inventive armor system thereby protects persons and objects situated behind back plate C from serious injury and damage. Even if damage C to plate C were to include a slight perforation such as perforation B shown in under most circumstances the people behind plate C would remain safely protected.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

