---

title: Autonomic correction of incorrect identities in repositories
abstract: Autonomic correction of incorrect identities in repositories. A communication is prepared and sent to one or more recipients. In response thereto, a notification is provided to the sender that one or more of the recipient's identities is incorrect. Based on this notification, corrective action is automatically initiated in order to locate the repository, and in particular, an entry in the repository corresponding to the incorrect identity and to take action to correct that identity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316100&OS=08316100&RS=08316100
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08316100
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080606
---
This invention relates in general to communications that include incorrect identities of recipients or others and in particular to automatically initiating correction of repositories that include the incorrect identities.

There are various modes of communication used today including telephonic communication facsimile communication and electronic communication as examples. In recent years electronic communication has become a preferred medium of communication for many businesses and individuals. Electronic communication includes electronic mail also known as email or e mail and instant messaging as examples. The preference for electronic communication stems from the many advantages that are provided by this mode of communication. People have always wanted to correspond with one another in the fastest way possible. Electronic mail is advantageous over regular mail in this respect as it provides a near instantaneous form of communication. Prior to e mail first telegraph and then later facsimile provided similar instantaneous forms of communication but in both instances the steps leading to sending and then ultimately steps involved in receiving this instant communication were burdensome. By contrast once means of communication is established electronic mail or other electronic communications do not provide any additional burdens either for the sender sending the communication or the receiver receiving the communication.

In many instances electronic communication is taking the place of telephone or is even preferred to it. While affording the same ease and instantaneous means of communication as a telephone electronic communication is preferred in instances where there is an advantage to recording the communication. For example documentation of communications may be required or at least preferred in instances where such documentation provides legal protection to one or both parties. But even in situations where such documentation is not necessary written documentation affords better information retention. For example it may be easier to organize and retain information about a client s new address and phone number when such information is provided by stored electronic means that can be easily retrieved as opposed to other means that can be more easily misplaced.

The popularity of electronic communication has led both individuals and businesses to rely heavily on this form of communication. Electronic communication allows people to write back and forth without having to spend much time worrying about how the message actually gets delivered. As technology grows closer and closer to being a common part of daily life the reliance of both individuals and businesses on this medium of communication is sharply increasing.

Electronic communications rely on addresses to send receive messages. For instance an e mail address provides the information required to get a message to a user or businesses anywhere around the world. Other forms of electronic communications as well as other forms of communication also rely on addresses or other forms of identity.

Unfortunately there are instances where the message contained in a communication is not delivered to the intended recipient because the identity e.g. address is incorrect. When an identity is incorrect the intended recipient of the communication does not receive the communication. This is troublesome for the original sender of the communication as well as to others that may be relying on that communication such as those carbon copied in the cc blind carbon copied in the bcc or other recipients in the to header.

Based on the foregoing a need exists for a capability to determine that an identity indicated in a communication is incorrect and to automatically initiate correction of that identity in one or more repositories that maintain that identity.

The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the provision of a method to facilitate correction of identities indicated in communications. The method includes for instance determining that an identity specified in a communication sent by a sender to one or more receivers is incorrect and automatically initiating correction of the incorrect identity in a repository in which the identity is maintained.

Systems and computer program products relating to one or more aspects of the present invention are also described and claimed herein.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a capability is provided to detect that one or more identities of a communication are incorrect and to automatically initiate correction in one or more repositories of the one or more incorrect identities. As used herein an identity is any type of information that indicates where a communication is to be sent or otherwise identifies how to locate a user including but not limited to an e mail address a buddy indication an indication stored in a phone directory or other types of addresses used in communication and stored in a repository. Further as used herein a repository includes an address book a distribution list a buddy list e.g. an Instant Message Buddy list a list a directory or any other type of mechanism that stores identities for later retrieval. The repository can be shared by a plurality of users or other entities or not shared. As particular examples a repository is a Lotus Domino address book a Microsoft Outlook address book an LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol directory etc. Lotus and Domino are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation and Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. Other names used herein may be registered trademarks trademarks or product names of International Business Machines Corporation or other companies.

One embodiment of a communications environment to incorporate and use one or more aspects of the present invention is described with reference to . A communications environment may include for instance a communications unit coupled to a plurality of other communications units via one or more connections . A communications unit may include for instance a personal computer a laptop a handheld unit a workstation a mainframe a mini computer a node or any other type of unit capable of sending and or receiving e mails or other communications. Communications unit may or may not be the same type of communications unit as communications units . Additionally each of communications units may or may not be the same type of unit as another communications unit . The connections coupling the units are for instance any type of network connection such as an internet connection a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a token ring an Ethernet connection etc.

Each communications unit executes for example an operating system such as for instance AIX offered by International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. Linux Windows or other operating systems etc. AIX and IBM are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. U.S.A. Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The operating system of one communications unit may be the same or different from another communications unit. Further in other examples one or more of the communications units may not include an operating system. Although three 3 communications units are depicted in more or less units may be included. In one example communications unit is communicatively coupled to a number of communications units.

Communications unit includes for instance a sender which sends communications to one or more communications units . In this example each of communications units includes a receiver that receives and may respond to the communications received from sender .

To communicate between a sender and a receiver the sender prepares a communication e.g. a note a message etc. to be sent to the receiver. In one example in which messages are sent between users within the framework of an electronic communication a syntax is provided for these messages. One example of such a syntax is provided by a network working group Request For Comments RFC 2822 document hereinafter RFC2822 from Qualcomm Inc. published April 2001 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In the context of electronic mail RFC2822 messages are viewed as having an envelope and contents. The envelope includes whatever information is needed to accomplish transmission and delivery. The contents include the object to be delivered to the recipient. The above mentioned standard effects the format and some of the semantics of message content but does not contain any information pertaining to the envelope. Under this standard messages are passed by the help of header fields which have similar structures and are composed of a field name separated from a field body by a colon.

One example of a communication is depicted in . In this example a communication is an e mail communication that includes a plurality of header fields including for instance a To field indicating one or more identities e.g. e mail addresses to which the communication is to be sent a cc field indicating zero or more recipients that are to be carbon copied a bcc field indicating zero or more recipients that are to be blind carbon copied a subject field optionally indicating the subject and a message id field representing a unique message identifier. The communication also includes a message . A communication may include more less or different information than described above. Further although in the example described herein the communication is an e mail and the identities are e mail addresses other forms of communications and or identities can be used and benefit from one or more aspects of the present invention.

In response to sending the communication the sender may receive an indication that one or more of the identities provided in the communication e.g. in the To cc and or bcc are incorrect. For example as shown in an undeliverable notification is provided which includes for instance the original note along with some additional information. For instance returned note includes a To field indicating the sender of the original communication that includes the error a From field indicating the sender of the delivery notification a Subject field indicating the address that did not receive the communication a Content Type field providing various details regarding the communication as well as other additional information.

Another example of a failure notification is depicted in . As shown a failure notification also includes a To field indicating the sender of the original communication a From field indicating the sender of the delivery notification a Subject field indicating the address that did not receive the communication a Content Type field providing various details regarding the communication as well as other additional information. Additionally failure notification includes the original note . In this example the original note includes an X Addr List field indicating where the recipients identities were obtained this information is retained in the note as opposed to the other embodiment where the information is retained by the client .

The X Addr List in one embodiment leverages the RFC2822 Internet Request For Comment s International Standard feature for roll your own header records. As one example the X Addr List identifies where the recipient s address was obtained. For example recipients Mary Smith Jack Smith and John Brown were obtained from a distribution list sec list that resides on a server server1.charter.net John Doe and Lisa Riley were in a distribution list on the sender s local address book my list local Fred Blue is not part of a distribution list but is in the sender s local address book local and Steve Wolf is not part of any distribution list or in the sender s address book hence he is not listed in X Addr List .

In response to receiving a failure indication the sender may wish to correct the incorrect identities in the one or more repositories that maintain the identities. In accordance with an aspect of the present invention this corrective action is initiated automatically.

One embodiment of an overview of the logic to automatically initiate corrective action is described with reference to . In this example the identities are e mail addresses however in other examples the identities can be other than e mail addresses. Also in this particular example a failure notification such as the one depicted in is provided.

Referring to initially a communication is created that specifies one or more receivers STEP . For example e mail addresses may be typed in or selected from canned distribution lists. As another example a name or other designation can be entered in its entirety or with the aid of an auto fill feature. For instance if the recipient is Mary Smith by typing in Mary Sm the auto fill feature of the e mail client software may fill in Mary Smith.

When specifying the recipient other than by typing in the actual e mail address e.g. userxyz somewhere.com a resolution procedure is used to resolve the name or other designation to a usable e mail address. During this process typically a look up is performed in a local repository e.g. local address book for the designation. If it is not there the search is expanded to a shared repository such as Lotus Domino an LDAP directory or others . The user composing the communication has read permission to the repository and may or may not have write permission. When the lookup is successful an entry is obtained that includes information corresponding to the recipient including the recipient s e mail address. This information is used to send the e mail to the recipient.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention the e mail client creates a history of where the identities were derived and maintains this history in a data structure such as a table. For example for each e mail sent the client e mail software creates an indexed log record. As an example the unique message id associated with the e mail is extracted and recorded as a keyed index for the e mail. Further the to cc and bcc e mail addresses are recorded. Examples of this information are depicted in the below history table i.e. Cols. 1 and 2 respectively 

Further in one example for each entry an indication is provided as to whether the e mail address was typed in or repository resolved see Col. 3 . In the example above the address for S. Wolf was typed in as well as for user12. If resolved the identity of the associated repository is also indicated see Col. 4 .

Various record retention policies can be established for how long it is necessary or desired to maintain the records. Such settings are a candidate for user preference or enterprise policy.

Continuing with after sending the communication a determination is made as to whether an undeliverable note or indication was received by the sender e.g. back at the composing user s e mail client INQUIRY . There are various ways of making this determination. For example a message or Delivery Failure Report may be returned that indicates an error. In one specific example an undeliverable indication may be identified by a status code provided in the report. There may be many status codes. One known set of status codes is referred to as the Delivery Status Notification DSN status codes provided in a network working group Request for Comments RFC 3464 document hereinafter RFC3464 from Qualcom Inc. published January 2003 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The status codes identify the reasons for the inability to deliver the note. As a further example if the remote message transfer agent MTA does not support DSN then the originator s client e mail software or other communication software can parse the rejection notification looking for a specific reply code such as reply code or other reply code that indicates failure.

If an undeliverable indication has not been received then the e mail addresses are assumed correct STEP . However if an undeliverable indication is received then one or more actions may be taken STEP .

As one example the e mail address is corrected if known and the undelivered communication is resent to the intended recipient using the corrected e mail address STEP . This new e mail address can be manually typed in or selected from a list that has been updated with the correct address as examples.

In another example the corrected address is sent to other recipients of the original communication informing those recipients of the error and the correction. As an example a short informational header record is architected that is used to send the incorrect correct address value pairs to each of the co recipients of the original note e.g. to cc bcc informing them of the corrected distribution so as to lessen continued propagation of the incorrect address. One embodiment of this capability is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 463 340 entitled Source Initiated Autonomic Recipient Email Address Correction Redistribution filed Aug. 9 2006 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In addition to the above or alternatively action is initiated to correct the repository if any that includes the incorrect e mail address STEP . In one example this corrective action is initiated automatically in response to receiving an indication of an incorrect e mail address as described further below. In response to initiating corrective action corrective action may be taken to correct the incorrect address in the repository STEP . The manner in which corrective action is taken depends on for instance the mail client and the repository. For example if the mail client is Lotus Notes and the repository is a Lotus address book then LotusScript could be used to perform the actions. Other examples are also possible. Lotus Notes Lotus and LotusScript are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation.

Further details regarding initiating and taking corrective action are described with reference to . Referring initially to the incorrect e mail address is looked up in the history data structure to obtain pertinent information about the address and determine how to proceed STEP . For example the message id e.g. message id in the returned note is extracted and used as an index to the data structure to obtain the history. From this history it is determined whether the incorrect e mail address was typed in. If so in one example the e mail client caches or records the erroneous address and warns the user from retyping it in the future. However if it is not a typed in address but one that was obtained or resolved from a repository then corrective action may be initiated.

A determination is made as to whether the sender of the communication is permitted to update the repository INQUIRY . In one example this is determined by obtaining the repository id from the history data structure and then checking an authorization data structure or the like to determine the administrator e.g. owner of the repository and the authorization rights. If the sender is not authorized then in one embodiment a notification is automatically generated to the administrator informing the administrator of the error STEP . As an example a script or application programming interface API is used to identify the administrator and send a note to the administrator.

At this point the administrator can do nothing or in one embodiment can take corrective action in accordance with an aspect of the present invention. In the example herein it is assumed that the administrator is taking corrective action.

Subsequent to informing the administrator or if the sender is permitted to update the repository INQUIRY then the incorrect e mail address entry is located as described below in order to revise the repository STEP . In response thereto action is taken to correct the repository STEP . Further details regarding locating the incorrect e mail address entry and taking corrective action are described with reference to .

Referring to in one embodiment the repository identified from the history data structure using the message id as an index is searched for the entry with the incorrect address STEP . The incorrect address is used as an index into the repository. That entry is obtained STEP and an open dialog prompt is provided to the sender or administrator showing information from the entry and requesting approval to fix the repository with the correct e mail address STEP . As examples the approval is provided implicitly absent explicit authorization or explicitly. If the approval is not provided INQUIRY then the repository is not corrected STEP and processing terminates. However if the request to correct the repository is approved then the entry is saved in the repository with the corrected e mail address STEP . In one example LDAP or APIs specific to the particular mailer used e.g. Lotus Notes Microsoft Outlook etc. are employed to update the repository with the correct address STEP . This completes processing.

Described in detail above is one embodiment of detecting e.g. automatically an incorrect identity in a communication automatically initiating corrective action in response to the detection and taking corrective action to correct the identity maintained in a repository. The actions taken e.g. update the repository can be automatic or manual.

In a further example the data structure e.g. table is not used but instead the X Addr List is embedded in a header record of a sent communication and provided in a failure notification such as the one depicted in . Therefore the directory information is self contained in the failure notification report and a table look up etc. is not needed.

One or more aspects of the present invention can be included in an article of manufacture e.g. one or more computer program products having for instance computer usable media. The media has therein for instance computer readable program code means or logic e.g. instructions code commands etc. to provide and facilitate the capabilities of the present invention. The article of manufacture can be included as a part of a computer system or sold separately.

One example of an article of manufacture or a computer program product incorporating one or more aspects of the present invention is described with reference to . A computer program product includes for instance one or more computer usable media to store computer readable program code means or logic thereon to provide and facilitate one or more aspects of the present invention. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A sequence of program instructions or a logical assembly of one or more interrelated modules defined by one or more computer readable program code means or logic direct the performance of one or more aspects of the present invention.

Advantageously a capability is provided in which corrective action to update repositories that include incorrect identities e.g. e mail addresses addresses of buddies in a buddy list or other addresses or indications of a recipient is automatically initiated in response to detecting an incorrect identity. This enables the repository to be updated so that the error does not continue to occur and does not get propagated.

Although various embodiments are described above these are only examples. For example identities included in other areas of the communication such as the body or subject etc. can also be checked for correctness and corrected as described herein.

Further as an example the communications environment described above is only one example. There can be more or less communication units than described above. Also the units can be different than that described above. As one particular example the communications unit to send a communication may be a cell phone or other mobile device. Many other examples are also possible.

Moreover an environment may include an emulator e.g. software or other emulation mechanisms in which a particular architecture or subset thereof is emulated. In such an environment one or more emulation functions of the emulator can implement one or more aspects of the present invention even though a computer executing the emulator may have a different architecture than the capabilities being emulated. As one example in emulation mode the specific instruction or operation being emulated is decoded and an appropriate emulation function is built to implement the individual instruction or operation.

In an emulation environment a host computer includes for instance a memory to store instructions and data an instruction fetch unit to fetch instructions from memory and to optionally provide local buffering for the fetched instruction an instruction decode unit to receive the instruction fetch unit and to determine the type of instructions that have been fetched and an instruction execution unit to execute the instructions. Execution may include loading data into a register for memory storing data back to memory from a register or performing some type of arithmetic or logical operation as determined by the decode unit. In one example each unit is implemented in software. For instance the operations being performed by the units are implemented as one or more subroutines within emulator software.

Further a data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code is usable that includes at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements include for instance local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memory which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input Output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices DASD tape CDs DVDs thumb drives and other memory media etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the available types of network adapters.

In addition to the above other changes may be made without departing from the spirit of the present invention. For example the identity that is identified as being incorrect may be in the body of the message instead of the To cc or bcc fields. Further the communications that are described herein are just examples and many other communications may incorporate and use one or more aspects of the present invention. Further although the examples described herein are for e mail communications again the communications may be for other types of communication systems.

The capabilities of one or more aspects of the present invention can be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination thereof. At least one program storage device readable by a machine embodying at least one program of instructions executable by the machine to perform the capabilities of the present invention can be provided.

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just examples. There may be many variations to these diagrams or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

Although embodiments have been depicted and described in detail herein it will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art that various modifications additions substitutions and the like can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention and these are therefore considered to be within the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

