---

title: Providing notification of a real-world event to a virtual universe user
abstract: An approach that provides transmission and notification of a real-world event to a virtual universe user is described. In one embodiment, there is a method for notifying a resident that is on-line in a virtual universe of an occurrence of a real-world event. The method includes receiving an indication of the occurrence of the real-world event, mapping the indication of the real-world event into one of a plurality of communication representations, and notifying the resident in the virtual universe in accordance with the mapped communication representation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08375310&OS=08375310&RS=08375310
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08375310
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080516
---
This invention relates generally to virtual universes and more specifically to transmitting representing and notifying real world event data to residents that are on line in a virtual universe.

Virtual universes or virtual worlds are computer based simulated environments intended for its residents to inhabit and interact via avatars which are personas or representations of the residents of the virtual universes and generally take the form of two dimensional or three dimensional human or fantastical representations of a person s self. These types of virtual universes are now most common in massive multiplayer on line games such as Second Life which is a trademark of Linden Research in the United States other countries or both. Avatars in these types of virtual universes which can number well over a million have a wide range of business and social experiences.

Because many of these virtual universes have many activities and places to visit residents are spending a great deal of time in these universes and many are finding that they are losing touch with the real world. Currently there are no approaches that enable residents to receive notifications of real world events while on line in the virtual universes.

In one embodiment there is a method for notifying a resident that is on line in a virtual universe of an occurrence of a real world event. In this embodiment the method comprises receiving an indication of the occurrence of the real world event mapping the indication of the real world event into one of a plurality of communication representations and notifying the resident in the virtual universe in accordance with the mapped communication representation.

In a second embodiment there is a computer system for notifying a resident that is on line in a virtual universe of a real world event. In this embodiment the system comprises at least one processing unit and memory operably associated with the at least one processing unit. A real world event notification tool is storable in memory and executable by the at least one processing unit. The tool comprises an event detection component configured to receive an indication of the real world event. The tool further comprises a policy table that associates a plurality of real world events to communication representations that are indicative of real world events. An event interpreter component is configured to determine at least one communication representation from the policy table that corresponds with the real world event indication received by the event detection component. An event notification component is configured to notify the resident in the virtual universe in accordance with the at least one communication representation determined by the event interpreter component.

In a third embodiment there is a computer readable medium storing computer instructions which when executed enables a computer system to notify a resident that is on line in a virtual universe of a real world event. In this embodiment the computer instructions comprises receiving an indication of the real world event mapping the indication of the real world event into one of a plurality of communication representations and notifying the resident in the virtual universe in accordance with the mapped communication representation.

In a fourth embodiment there is a method for deploying a real world event notification tool for use in a computer system that notifies a resident that is on line in a virtual universe of an occurrence of a real world event. In this embodiment a computer infrastructure is provided and is operable to receive an indication of the occurrence of the real world event map the indication of the real world event into one of a plurality of communication representations and notify the resident in the virtual universe in accordance with the mapped communication representation.

Embodiments of this invention are directed to a technique for notifying residents that are on line in a virtual universe of real world events. Real world events are detected by a real world event notification tool that runs on a virtual universe client that enables residents to interact with the virtual universe through one of several different approaches. For example the virtual universe client can detect real world events by periodically receiving indications of the events through push or pull technologies used to extract such information or through periodic requests made by the client to receive the information. A policy table specifies various communication representations that correspond with real world events. An event interpreter component associates a received indication of a real world event to at least one of the communication representations. An event notification component notifies the residents that are on line in the virtual universe of the real world event in accordance with the representation specified by the policy table. Examples of possible forms of notification include providing residents with a teleport invitation that will bring the residents to a simulacrum of the real world event within the virtual universe placing the representation in an inventory of the resident that is associated with the virtual universe changing the visual characteristics of the resident to a representation that is indicative of the real world event and changing the visual characteristics of the landscape within the virtual universe to a representation that is indicative of the event.

An action controls component enables the user to perform actions in the virtual universe such as buying items for his or her avatar or even for their real life selves building homes planting gardens etc. as well as changing the appearance of their avatar. These actions are only illustrative of some possible actions that a user can perform in the virtual universe and are not limiting of the many possible actions that can be performed. A communications interface enables a user to communicate with other users of the virtual universe through modalities such as chatting instant messaging gesturing talking and email.

The real world event notification tool utilizes a policy table that specifies various communication representations that correspond with real world events. An event interpreter component associates a received indication of a real world event to at least one of the communication representations. An event notification component notifies the residents that are on line in the virtual universe of the real world event in accordance with the representation specified by the policy table. Examples of possible forms of notification include providing residents with a teleport invitation that will bring the residents to a simulacrum of the real world event within the virtual universe placing the representation in an inventory of the resident that is associated with the virtual universe changing the visual characteristics of the resident to a representation that is indicative of the real world event and changing the visual characteristics of the landscape within the virtual universe to a representation that is indicative of the event.

Below is a more detailed discussion of the real world event notification tool and how it receives indications of real world events transmits the real world events in a representation that notifies residents that are on line in the virtual universe of the real world events.

As shown in there are several different databases for storing information. In particular database contains a list of all the avatars that are on line in the virtual universe . Databases and contain information on the actual human users i.e. the residents of the virtual universe . In one embodiment database contains general information on the users such as names addresses interests ages etc. while database contains more private information on the users such as email addresses billing information e.g. credit card information for taking part in transactions. Databases and contain information on the avatars of the residents that reside in the virtual universe . In one embodiment database contains information such as all of the avatars that a resident may have the profile of each avatar avatar characteristics e.g. appearance voice and movement features while database contains an inventory listing properties and possessions that each avatar owns such as houses cars sporting equipment appearance attire etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that databases may contain additional information if desired. Although the above information is shown in as being stored in databases those skilled in the art will recognize that other means of storing information can be utilized.

An avatar transport component enables individual avatars to transport which as mentioned above allows avatars to transport through space from one point to another point instantaneously. For example avatars could teleport to an art exhibit held in a museum held in Greenland.

An avatar management component keeps track of what on line avatars are doing while in the virtual universe. For example the avatar management component can track where the avatar presently is in the virtual universe what activities it is performing or has recently performed. An illustrative but non exhaustive list of activities can include shopping eating talking recreating etc.

Because a typical virtual universe has a vibrant economy the server array has functionalities that are configured to manage the economy. In particular a universe economy management component manages transactions that occur within the virtual universe between avatars. In one embodiment the virtual universe will have their own currency that users pay for with real life money. The users can then take part in commercial transactions for their avatars through the universe economy management component . In some instances the user may want to take part in a commercial transaction that benefits him or her and not their avatar. In this case a commercial transaction management component allows the resident to participate in the transaction. For example while walking around a commercial zone an avatar may see a pair of shoes that he or she would like for themselves and not their avatar. In order to fulfill this type of transaction and others similarly related the commercial transaction management component interacts with banks credit card companies and vendors could be used to facilitate such a transaction.

Although not expressly shown in all of the components shown in the figure are configured to interact with each other. The components that are shown as being interconnected are illustrated in that manner to convey the close interactions that exist between these components such as the banks credit card companies and vendors with the commercial transaction management component .

The real world event notification tool comprises an event detection component configured to receive an indication of the occurrence of the real world event. In one embodiment the virtual universe client can detect the real world events by periodically receiving indications of the events through the use of well known push or pull technologies that can extract such information or through periodic requests made through the client to receive the information. Those skilled in the art will recognize that modifications can be made to the virtual universe client that support push or pull technologies and the capability to make periodic requests of real world event data. For example for the push technology the virtual universe client can be modified to be network aware so that real world event data is pushed to a listener port on the client. For the pull technology the client can be modified to pull the data as long as it is pullable e.g. interrogating log files calling an API etc. . The pulling of data embodiment would typically require establishing a network server port proxy authentication and other settings that are within the purview of a person skilled in the art.

Regardless of what configuration is used the event detection component can obtain real world events that as mentioned above could include news reports of current events weather reports emergency notifications and events occurring at the resident s computer such as processor temperature indications computer memory usage central processing unit usage detection of spyware or viruses emails instant messages reminders phone calls etc. Again those skilled in the art will recognize that these examples are non exhaustive of the many possibilities of real world events that can be brought to the attention of a resident through the event detection component .

In another embodiment the event detection component is configured to parse the received real world event data into a form that describes the nature of the real world event. This embodiment is well suited to parsing extensible markup language XML documents. For example the event detection component can browse a file system associated with the virtual universe client for files to parse as well as a means to parse regular expressions and various field selections that correspond to the real world event. This capability would enable a resident to receive an indication of a real world event and by parsing files in the file system in the client that pertain to the event information can be extracted that describe the nature of the event and possibly suggest responses or actions to take. In addition to browsing a file system the event detection component is also configured to interrogate other locally accessible repositories of information such as an operating system registry event aggregation service or even launching commands that return information. For example if an antivirus company wished to use the real world event notification tool then the company could provide a file or signal that describes the nature of the viral problem and preferred ways in which the viral event may be represented in the virtual universe .

The real world event notification tool as shown in further comprises an event interpreter component configured to determine at least one communication representation from a policy table that specifies a plurality of real world events and corresponding communication representations for communicating the real world events to a resident that is on line in the virtual universe . In one embodiment the policy table is a look up table that will control how the interpreter component determines which form of representation to use to communicate the real world event to the resident. For example a resident or a service provider may specify that when a processor temperature exceeds a critical value the resident or service technician will receive a teleport invitation such that when the invitation is selected it takes them to a schematic representation or a simulacrum of the processor hardware so that the problem can be better understood.

Another possibility is to put the representation of the overheating processor in the inventory of the resident that is associated with the virtual universe. Other examples of communication representations that the policy table may specify include a change in the visual characteristics of the resident e.g. a red appearance to indicate an overheating processor or a change in the visual characteristics of landscape within the virtual universe e.g. a burning bush to indicate an overheating processor . Those skilled in the art will recognize that these examples of communication representations for a particular real world event are non exhaustive of the many possibilities that can be used. For example one alternative to indicating receipt of an email or instant message is to place a representation of the email or instant message in the hand of resident s avatar.

The policy table can be implemented to work in conjunction with the virtual universe client by making a modification to the client such that it permits the resident to define how to handle notification of matches of representations in the table that associate with the real world event. Creating visual text or audio queues associated with the matches will allow the real world event notification tool to generate the above noted representations. With respect to communications made to the inventory those skilled in the art will recognize that this necessitates creating inventory items that can be received and possibly modified upon an event match. For invitations to teleport those skilled in the art will recognize that this necessitates assigning locations and objects in the virtual universe that when specific events are matched will teleport the resident to the location and render the objects there if not already rendered.

Although the policy table is shown in as being located on the virtual universe client it is within the scope of the invention to store this component in the server or another computer not associated with the server.

In operation once the event interpreter component receives the indication of the real world event from the event detection component then the interpreter will examine the policy table to determine at least one communication representation specified in the policy table that corresponds to the real world event. The event interpreter component will then pass this information to an event notification component which is configured to notify a resident that is on line in the virtual universe in accordance with the at least one communication representation determined by the interpreter. A non exhaustive listing of notifications that the event notification component can generate to a resident include a teleport invitation that will bring the resident to a simulacrum of the real world event within the virtual universe placing the communication representation in an inventory of the resident that is associated with the virtual universe changing visual characteristics of the resident to a representation that is indicative of the event and changing visual characteristics of landscape within the virtual universe to a representation that is indicative of the event.

In another embodiment of this invention the real world event notification tool is used as a service to charge fees for each notification. In this embodiment the provider of the virtual universe or a third party service provider could offer this real world event notification tool as a service by performing the functionalities described herein on a subscription and or fee basis. In this case the provider of the virtual universe or the third party service provider can create deploy maintain support etc. the real world event notification tool that performs the processes described in the invention. In return the virtual universe or the third party service provider can receive payment from the virtual universe residents via the universe economy management component and the commercial transaction management component .

In still another embodiment the methodologies disclosed herein can be used within a computer system to notify residents that are on line in the virtual universe of real world events. In this case the real world event notification tool can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes described in the invention can be obtained and deployed to a computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as a computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the infrastructure to enable the infrastructure to perform the process actions of the invention.

In the computing environment there is a computer which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with an exemplary computer include but are not limited to personal computers server computers thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The exemplary computer may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that performs particular tasks or implements particular abstract data types. The exemplary computer may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in the computer in the computing environment is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

The computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

In the system memory includes computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as ROM . A BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by processor .

Computer may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are each connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces .

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks RAMs ROM and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including by way of example and not limitation an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of the networking environment of including the server array the virtual universe client and the real world event notification tool . In one embodiment the one or more application programs may comprise the various elements of the real world event notification tool such as the event detection component event interpreter component policy table and event notification component .

A user may enter commands and information into computer through optional input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish serial port scanner camera or the like. These and other input devices are connected to the processor unit through a user input interface that is coupled to bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

An optional monitor or other type of display device is also connected to bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers which may be connected through output peripheral interface .

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote server computer . Remote computer may include many or all of the elements and features described herein relative to computer .

Logical connections shown in are a local area network LAN and a general wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to LAN via network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism.

In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on a memory device of remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

An implementation of an exemplary computer may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also includes any information delivery media.

The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

It is apparent that there has been provided with this invention an approach for notification of a real world event to a virtual universe user. While the invention has been particularly shown and described in conjunction with a preferred embodiment thereof it will be appreciated that variations and modifications will occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore it is to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

