---

title: Identity based symmetric cryptosystem using secure biometric model
abstract: Methods, apparatus, and computer program products are herein described that provide for an identity-based cryptosystem using a highly secure biometric model through which both access and data transmission are effectively made very secure. Through implementation of generating and securely storing biometric data as syndrome vectors tolerance is provided for the inherent variability of biometric data. In addition, to insure that the biometric data is not duplicated by adversaries who might gain access to the syndrome generation algorithm and the biometric data, present aspects, provide for keeping the private key more secure and making the cryptosystem user-identity dependent. As such the systems, apparatus and computer program products herein disclosed provide end-to-end authentication of end users using secure biometry, which constitute the symmetric and/or asymmetric identity-based cryptosystem.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08625785&OS=08625785&RS=08625785
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08625785
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080515
---
The present aspects relate to cryptographic systems and more particularly to systems apparatus and methods for an identity based symmetric cryptosystem using biometric data that provides for both secure data transmission and secure access to transmit.

Conventional password based security systems generally include two phases. First an initial enrollment phase during which users select passwords which are subsequently stored on an authentication device such as an authentication server. Secondly an authentication phase allows the user to gain access to resources or data by entering their passwords which are then verified against the stored version of the password. However such a password based security mechanism is highly vulnerable. For example if the passwords are stored as unencrypted plain text then an adversary who gains access to the system can obtain every password in the system. In this instance even a single successful attack by the adversary can compromise the entire system. Additionally password based computer security systems are susceptible to brute force attacks in which all possibilities are searched to decipher the passwords or a dictionary attack in which only possibilities most likely to succeed e.g. a list derived from words in a dictionary are searched.

An additional problem related to password based security systems is that passwords are not required to be user specific in that passwords can be shared amongst more than one individual user making it difficult for the system to know who has the password at any given point in time. Thus authentication in such security systems is possession based and thus possession of the password is sufficient to establish user authenticity. This means that passwords are unable to provide requisite non repudiation.

To address some of these problems conventional password systems have evolved to implement encryption. For example the passwords are encrypted during the enrollment phase using an encryption or hash function and during the authentication phase when a user enters a candidate password the function is applied to the candidate password and access is granted if the encrypted candidate password matches the encrypted password stored during the enrollment phase. Such encrypted passwords provide no benefit to an adversary unless the adversary possesses or has knowledge of the encryption or hash function. However unless the encryption function is deemed to be strong adversaries have shown a propensity to be able to hack or otherwise decipher encryption codes. So called strong encryption codes while they may prevent hacking may be too expensive complex and or inefficient to implement in certain instances.

Recently biometric data has been used as a means of providing user authentication. In a biometric security system physical biometric features of a user are measured to obtain biometric parameters commonly referred to as observations. The biometric features may include but are not limited to fingerprints eye related features such as iris recognition other face recognition features voice recognition features and the like. However a conventional biometric security system in which the biometric data is unencrypted has the same vulnerability as a conventional password based system. Specifically if the database stores unencrypted biometric templates in a central database or in the user device then the parameters are subject to attack and misuse. Once the biometric parameters are illicitly located the adversary may be able to modify the parameters to match the appearance or characteristic of the adversary to gain unauthorized access. In addition the threat exists of having fake biometric data inputted in an artificial manner. Also unlike password security biometric data is not a secret and as such some biometric data such as fingerprints can be easily forged if the data is obtained.

Additionally encryption of biometric data has proven to be a challenging task. Among other reasons the manner by which the biometric features are measured and the variance in the biometric features from one measurement to another termed noise provide obstacles to a cryptographic system implementing biometric data. For example biometric parameters may be captured and entered during an enrollment phase such that enrollment biometric parameters are encrypted using an appropriate encryption function. However during the authentication phase the biometric parameters obtained from the same user may differ from those taken at enrollment. For example if the biometric data is related to facial feature recognition the capturing equipment and lighting may differ and the features themselves may change over time. Thus if the biometric data captured during authentication are passed through the same encryption function the result may not match the enrollment data. In this regard no acceptable methods for performing error correction or syndrome code decoding for the noise structure particular to biometrics exists. Most previous secure biometric systems use a memory less noise model or other models that oversimplify the nature of the noise and do not reflect actual operational conditions. As such the previous attempts at secure biometrics do not adequately represent the time varying dynamics of biometric features and the acquisition and measurement processes.

Recently multimodal biometric fusion has been introduced which uses in combination more than one source of biometric data with error correction and some secret information such as a password or PIN to generate a secret key. However this type of security technique requires storage of a large quantity of data and it tends to be resource intensive to implement and thus costlier to implement than other biometric techniques. Additionally liveliness detection testing of biometric data has been implemented in which a live human characteristic is captured such as temperature blood flow heartbeat or the like. However implementation of liveliness detection testing may not be feasible on resource constrained devices such as handheld wireless devices or the like which would require different types of sensors than are currently available on such devices.

Therefore a need exists to develop a highly secure biometric model through which both access and transmission can effectively be made very secure. The desired model should address and overcome the inherent variability of biometric data while providing for a model that prevents duplication of biometric data.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Present aspects define methods apparatus and computer program products that provide for an identity based cryptosystem using a very secure biometric model through which both access and data transmission are effectively made very secure. In one aspect herein described syndrome vectors of biometric data are generated and securely stored to provide for tolerance of the inherent variability of biometric data. In addition to insure that the biometric data is not duplicated by adversaries who might gain access to the syndrome generation algorithm and the biometric data present aspects provide for keeping the private key more secure and making the cryptosystem user identity dependent. In certain aspects added security is accomplished by generating a private key from conventional key generation techniques and generating a final key from input of the private key and biometric data as a one way function. As such the systems apparatus and computer program products herein disclosed provide end to end authentication of end users using secure biometry which constitute the symmetric and or asymmetric identity based cryptosystem.

Present aspects provide for a one time registration of all biometric data between two communication points example between a first end user device and a second end user device. In certain aspects the one time registration may be performed during the initial communication between the end user devices. The registration may provide for maintaining a biometric address book either locally or network based using syndrome coded and or distorted transformed data otherwise referred to as cancellable biometric data to prevent adversaries from acquiring the raw biometric data.

After the registration has been performed biometric data may be randomly sampled and combined with a conventional private key using a one way function to result in a final key that is used to encrypt data. The biometric data may be distorted transformed biometric data and or stored using syndrome code to provide additional security. Once the encrypted data is received by the device which has registered the biometric data the biometric data is retrieved according to a device identifier and based on a randomizer received from the encrypting device the decrypting device determines which biometric should be used for decryption. The biometric data and the randomizer are then combined to form the final private key used for decrypting the data.

According to one aspect a method for encrypting a data transmission using randomized biometric data is provided. The method includes receiving a biometric data sample associated with a user of a computing device and distorting the biometric data sample into a plurality of distorted biometric data. The distorted plurality of biometric data is then stored as a syndrome vector. The method further includes obtaining a random sample of the stored distorted biometric data and generating an encryption key using a combination of a private key associated with the device and the random sample of the distorted biometric data. The encryption key may be generated using a one way function. The method additionally includes encrypting a data transmission using the encryption key. The method may further include communicating the stored distorted biometric data and the private key to a second computing device upon establishing a first communication with the second computing device.

In alternate aspects of the method distorting the biometric data sample may further include randomly distorting the biometric data sample into the plurality of distorted biometric data and in one aspect the random distortion may be synchronized with the random sampling of the stored distorted biometric data such that both processes implement the same randomizer. Additionally in some aspects distorting the biometric data sample may further include dynamically distorting the biometric data sample into the plurality of distorted biometric data such that the distorting operation changes over time or the changes based on preconfiguration.

Additional aspects of the method may provide for applying error correction to one or more of the plurality of distorted biometric data. In those aspects in which error correction is applied the error correction may be applied randomly and the randomization may be synchronized with one or more of the distortion of the biometric data and obtaining the random sample of the distorted biometric data. Thus in one aspect distorting the biometric data applying error correction and generating an encryption key are all performed in synchronized randomization.

A further aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to encrypt data transmissions using randomized biometric data. The processor includes a first module for receiving a biometric data sample associated with a user of a computing device and a second module for distorting the biometric data sample into a plurality of distorted biometric data. The processor additionally includes a third module for storing each of the plurality of distorted biometric data as a syndrome vector and a fourth module for obtaining a random sample of the stored distorted biometric data. Also the processor includes a fifth module for generating an encryption key using a combination of a private key associated with the device and the random sample of the distorted biometric data and a sixth module for encrypting a data transmission using the encryption key.

Another related aspect is provided for by a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a biometric data sample associated with a user of a computing device and a second set of codes for causing the computer to distort the biometric data sample into a plurality of distorted biometric data. The medium additionally includes a third set of codes for causing the computer to store each of the plurality of distorted biometric data as a syndrome vector and a fourth set of codes for causing the computer to obtain a random sample of the stored distorted biometric data. Also the medium includes a fifth set of codes for causing the computer to generate an encryption key using a combination of a private key associated with the device and the random sample of the distorted biometric data and a sixth set of codes for a causing the computer to encrypt a data transmission using the encryption key.

An apparatus provides for another related aspect. The apparatus includes means for receiving a biometric data sample associated with a user of a computing device and means for distorting the biometric data sample into a plurality of distorted biometric data. The apparatus additionally includes means for storing each of the plurality of distorted biometric data as a syndrome vector and means for obtaining a random sample of the stored distorted biometric data. Also the apparatus includes means for generating an encryption key using a combination of a private key associated with the device and the random sample of the distorted biometric data and means for encrypting a data transmission using the encryption key.

Yet another related aspect is defined by an apparatus that includes a computing platform including a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus additionally includes one or more biometric sensors in communication with the processor and a biometric data distorter in communication with the processor and the biometric sensors and operable to distort biometric data captured by the sensors into a plurality of distorted biometric data. The apparatus further includes a biometric sampler in communication with the processor the memory and the biometric data distorter. The biometric sampler is operable to generate and store syndrome vectors for each of the plurality of distorted biometric data. The apparatus further includes an encryption key generator in communication with the processor and the biometric sampler operable to randomly obtain a sample of the stored distorted biometric data and generate an encryption key based on a private key and the sample of biometric data. The encryption key generator may be operable to generate the encryption key using a one way function. The apparatus additionally includes a randomization module in communication with the processor and the encryption key generator such that the randomization module is operable to obtain a random sample of the stored distorted biometric data. The apparatus also includes an encryption engine operable to encrypt data transmissions using the encryption key.

The apparatus may further include a communications module in communication with the processor and the biometric sampler wherein the communications module is operable to communicate the distorted biometric data to a second computing device upon establishing a first time communication with the second computing device. The communications module may be further operable to communicate the randomizer and the encrypted data to the second computing device.

In further aspects the randomization module may be in communication with the biometric data distorter and be operable to randomly distort the biometric data. As such the randomness applied to obtaining the sample of the stored distorted biometric data and the randomness applied to the distortion of the biometric data may be synchronized randomization. In other aspects the biometric data distorter may be further operable to dynamically change the distortion of the biometric data over time based on pre configuration or the like.

The apparatus may further include an error correction module operable for applying error correction to one or more of the plurality of distorted biometric data. In those aspects that include an error correction module the randomization module may be in further communication with the error correction module to randomly apply error correction to one or more of the plurality of distorted biometric data. Thus the randomization module may be further operable to provide a synchronized randomizer to the encryption key generator to randomly obtain the sample of stored distorted biometric data to the error correction module to randomly apply error correction to one or more of the plurality of distorted biometric data and to the biometric data distorter to randomly distort the biometric data sample into the plurality of distorted biometric data.

A further aspect on the innovation is provided for by a method for symmetric identity based decryption based on biometric data. The method includes receiving biometric data and a private key from a first device and storing the biometric data and private key based on an association with the first device. In one aspect the biometric data will be stored in a biometric address book that associates the data with first device identifier such as a telephone number IP address or the like. The method further includes receiving first encrypted data and a corresponding first randomizer from the first device and obtaining a first random sample of the stored biometric data corresponding to the first device based on the first randomizer received from the first device. The method also includes generating a first decryption key using a combination of the private key corresponding to the first device and the first random sample of the biometric data and decrypting the first encrypted data using the first decryption key. The generation of the first decryption key may be accomplished using a one way function.

In certain aspects of the method the biometric data and the private key will be received based on a first time communication with the first device such that the device checks the biometric address book and if any entry does not exist for the device identifier then the biometric data and the private key are requested or otherwise retrieved from the first device.

In certain aspects the biometric data that is received from the first device may further be defined as distorted biometric data and in some instances randomly distorted biometric data where the randomness of the distorted biometric data is based on the first randomizer.

In alternate aspects the method may further include receiving second encrypted data and a corresponding second randomizer from the first device wherein the second randomizer differs from the first randomizer obtaining a second random sample of the stored biometric data corresponding to the first device based on the second randomizer received from the first device generating a second decryption key using a combination of the private key corresponding to the first device and the second random sample of the biometric data and decrypting the second encrypted data using the second decryption key.

A further related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to provide symmetric identity based decryption based on biometric data. The processor includes a first module for receiving biometric data and a private key from a first device and a second module for storing the biometric data and private key based on an association with the first device. The processor additionally includes a third module for receiving first encrypted data and a corresponding first randomizer from the first device and a fourth module for obtaining a first random sample of the stored biometric data corresponding to the first device based on the first randomizer received from the first device. The processor also includes a fifth module for generating a first decryption key using a combination of the private key corresponding to the first device and the first random sample of the biometric data and a sixth module for decrypting the first encrypted data using the decryption key.

A computer program product provides for yet another related aspect. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive biometric data and a private key from a first device and a second set of codes for store the biometric data and private key based on an association with the first device. The medium additionally includes a third set of codes for causing the computer to receive first encrypted data and a corresponding first randomizer from the first device and a fourth set of codes for causing the computer to obtain a first random sample of the stored biometric data corresponding to the first device based on the first randomizer received from the first device. The medium additionally includes a fifth set of codes for causing the computer to generate a first decryption key using a combination of the private key corresponding to the first device and the first random sample of the biometric data and a sixth set of codes for a causing the computer to decrypt the first encrypted data using the decryption key.

Another related aspect is defined by an apparatus. The apparatus includes means for receiving biometric data and a private key from a first device and means for storing the biometric data and private key based on an association with the first device. The apparatus additionally includes means for receiving first encrypted data and a corresponding first randomizer from the first device and means for obtaining a first random sample of the stored biometric data corresponding to the first device based on the first randomizer received from the first device. The apparatus also includes means for generating a first decryption key using a combination of the private key corresponding to the first device and the first random sample of the biometric data and means for decrypting the first encrypted data using the decryption key.

An apparatus defines yet another related aspect of the present innovation. The apparatus includes a computing platform including a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus also includes a communications module in communication with the processor and operable to receive biometric data and a private key from a first device and a biometric address book stored in the memory and operable to store the biometric data and the private key based on an association with the first device. The apparatus additionally includes a decryption key generator in communication with the processor and operable to generate a decryption key based on receipt by the communication module of encrypted data and a corresponding randomizer wherein the decryption key generator is further operable to obtain a random sample of the stored biometric data based on the randomizer and generate the decryption key using a combination of the private key and the random sample of the biometric data. The apparatus also includes a decryption engine in communication with the processor and operable to decrypt the encrypted data using the decryption key. The decryption key generator may be further operable to generate the decryption key using a one way function

In certain aspects of the apparatus the communications module is further operable to receive the biometric data and the private key based on a first time communication with the first device. Additionally in optional aspects the communications module is further operable to receive distorted biometric data from the first device and in some aspects randomly distorted biometric.

Thus present aspects define methods apparatus and computer program products that provide for an identity based cryptosystem using a highly secure biometric model through which both access and data transmission are effectively made very secure. Through implementation of generating and securely storing biometric data as syndrome vectors tolerance is provided for the inherent variability of biometric data. In addition to insure that the biometric data is not duplicated by adversaries who might gain access to the syndrome generation algorithm and the biometric data present aspects provide for keeping the private key more secure and making the cryptosystem user identity dependent. As such the systems apparatus and computer program products herein disclosed provide end to end authentication of end users using secure biometry which constitute the symmetric and or asymmetric identity based cryptosystem.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Present aspects herein describe methods apparatus and computer program products for an identity based cryptosystem using a highly secure biometric model that results in heightened security for both access and data transmission. Present aspects rely on storing biometric data in syndrome vector format to provide tolerance in the inherent variability associated with biometric data. However use of syndrome vectors alone does not address the problems associated with duplicating biometric data thereby breaking the security provided by biometric data. Present aspects address this concern by making the private key more secure and also making the cryptosystem user identity dependent. To accomplish this in present aspects the private key is generated from conventional key generation techniques and the final encryption decryption keys are generated from an input of the private key and the biometric data using a one way function. Thus methods apparatus and computer programs herein described provide for an end to end authentication of end users using secure biometric data which constitutes the symmetric identity based cryptosystem.

Referring to first computing device operable to provide identity based encryption includes a computing platform that includes a processor and a memory in communication with the processor . The computing platform includes one or more biometric sensors that are operable to sense and capture biometric data related to the user of the computing device . Biometric sensors may include but are not limited to fingerprint sensors voice sensors facial feature sensors eye iris sensors and any other sensor that detects and captures a biometric feature of the user. While the biometric sensors herein depicted are standalone sensors the sensors may also be embodied as processing subsystems of processor or may be embodied as software modules located in memory .

The memory of computing platform includes a biometric data distorter operable to receive biometric data from the biometric sensors and distort the data into a plurality of distorted biometric data otherwise referred to in the art as cancellable biometric data. The biometric data distorter may be any device that distorts manipulates filters or otherwise changes the biometric data. In addition the biometric data distorter may apply distortion to the entire received biometric data or any portion thereof. The biometric data distorter may also be configured to distort biometric data coming from more than one type of biometric sensor such that the resulting distorted biometric data is a combination of biometric data received from two or more biometric sensors . It should be noted that while the biometric data distorter is shown as being located within memory and thus embodied within software biometric data distorter may also be implemented in hardware and thus be located external from memory . By distorting the biometric data an added level of security is provided in protecting that data from being duplicated by an adversary.

Additionally memory of computing platform includes a biometric sampler operable for generating and storing syndrome vectors for each of the plurality of distorted biometric data. Syndrome vectors which will be discussed at length infra. provide for tolerance in the inherent variability of biometric data. In present aspects distorted biometric data is stored in the form of syndrome vectors thereby not only correcting the variability of biometric data but also providing heightened security through the use of secure distorted i.e. cancellable biometric data.

Memory of computing platform additionally includes a randomization module operable to provide a randomizer such as a random number or any other form of randomness to one or more functions in the encryption process. In one aspect randomization module is operable for providing the randomizer to the random selection of the distorted biometric data used to generate an encryption key. Thus randomization module may in communication with encryption key generator that is operable to generate an encryption key based on a random sample of the distorted biometric data and a private key . The random sample of the distorted biometric data may be obtained by applying the randomizer to the distorted biometric data stored in the form of syndrome vectors such that the random sample of biometric data used to generate the encryption key may be a random sample of the syndrome vectors. The private key may be generated by any conventional technique for generating a private key. The encryption key may be generated using a one way function such as a log based function for example Elgamal Elliptic Curve Menezes Qu Vanstone ECMQV Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman ECDH or the like.

The memory of computing platform additionally includes an encryption engine in communication with processor and operable to apply the encryption key to encrypt data .

The first computing device additionally includes a communication module that is in communication with processor . The communications module is operable to communicate the biometric data and the private key to another computing device such as second computing device . In most instances the communications module may be configured to communicate the biometric data and the private key to another computing device based on a first time initial communication with the other computing device. In addition the communications module is operable for communicating encrypted data and randomizer to the other computing device for subsequent decryption by the other computing device.

Referring to second computing device operable to provide identity based decryption includes a computing platform that includes a processor and a memory in communication with the processor . The memory of computing platform includes a biometric address book operable to store biometric data and a private key received from another computing device such as first computing device . The biometric data and private key are associated with the device from which the data and key were received in the biometric address book according to a device identifier . The device identifier may be a telephone number an IP address or the like. In some aspects the biometric data stored in the address book may be distorted biometric data and further the distorted biometric data may be in the form of syndrome vectors . Entries in the biometric address book may be created based on an initial first time communication with another computing device. The other computing device may automatically send the biometric data and the private based on an initial communication with the second computing device or the second computing device may request the biometric data and private key after verifying that an entry does not currently exist in the biometric address book for the other computing device. While in most aspects the biometric address book will reside in the memory of second computing device it is also possible and within the innovative concepts herein disclosed for the address book to reside at network storage site not shown in and to be remotely accessible to the second computing device .

The second computing device additionally includes a communication module in communication with processor operable to receive encrypted data and randomizer from first computing device . Based on receipt of the encrypted data and the randomizer the decryption key generator is invoked to generate the appropriate decryption key for the encrypted data .

The decryption key generator is stored in the memory and in communication with the processor . The decryption key generator is operable to obtain a random sample of the biometric data stored in the biometric address book based on the randomizer and generate the decryption key using a combination of the private key and the biometric data random sample . As noted the same randomizer is used to select the random sample of biometric data at the decryption key generator as is used to select the same random sample of biometric data at the encryption key generator of of first computing device .

The second computing device additionally includes a decryption engine stored in the memory and in communication with the processor . The decryption engine is operable to decrypt the encrypted data using the decryption key to result in decrypted data .

Referring to according to one aspect depicted is a detailed block diagram representation of a computing device specifically a wireless communication device configured to embody both facets of the identity based cryptosystem described in . The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as biometric data distorter biometric sampler randomization module encryption key generator encryption engine decryption key generator or decryption engine stored in the memory of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any biometric sensors or any module stored in memory for example biometric data distorter biometric sampler randomization module encryption key generator encryption engine decryption key generator or decryption engine

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless communication device as well as between the wireless device and wireless network . In described aspects the communication module enables the communication of all correspondence between wireless communication device and other wired or wireless devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless network communication connection. In some aspects the communication module is operable for sending biometric data and private key to a another computing device for inclusion in the other computing device s biometric address book receiving biometric data and a private key from another computing device for inclusion in the resident biometric address book and sending or receiving encrypted data and the associated randomizer .

The computing platform includes one or biometric sensors that are operable to sense and capture biometric data related to the user of the wireless communication device . Biometric sensors may include but are not limited to fingerprint sensors voice sensors facial feature sensors eye iris sensors and any other sensor that detects and captures a biometric feature of the user. While the biometric sensors herein depicted are standalone sensors the sensors may also be embodied as processing subsystems of processor or may be embodied as software modules located in memory .

The memory of computing platform includes a biometric data distorter operable to receive biometric data from the biometric sensors and distort the data into a plurality of distorted biometric data otherwise referred to in the art as cancellable biometric data. The biometric data distorter may be any algorithm that distorts manipulates filters or otherwise changes the biometric data. In addition the biometric data distorter may apply distortion to the entire received biometric data or any portion therefore. The biometric data distorter may also be configured to distort biometric data coming from more than one type of biometric sensor such that the resulting distorted biometric data is a combination of biometric data received from two or more biometric sensors . It should be noted that while the biometric data distorter is shown as being located within memory and thus embodied within software biometric data distorter may also be implemented in hardware and thus be located external from memory .

Additionally memory of computing platform includes a biometric sampler operable for generating and storing syndrome vectors for each of the plurality of distorted biometric data. In present aspects distorted biometric data is stored in the form of syndrome vectors thereby not only correcting the variability of biometric data but also providing heightened security through the use secure distorted i.e. cancellable biometric data. The biometric sampler may additionally include an optional error correction code module which is operable to apply error correction to the distorted biometric data. In those aspects in which the biometric sampler implements error correction code processing the error correction code application may be random. Thus error correction code module may be in communication with a randomization module operable to provide a randomizer such as a random number or any other form of randomness to the error correction code module .

In one aspect randomization module is operable for providing the randomizer to the random selection of the distorted biometric data used to generate an encryption key. Thus randomization module may be in communication with encryption key generator that is operable to generate an encryption key based a random sample of the distorted biometric data and a private key . The random sample of the distorted biometric data may be obtained by applying the randomizer to the distorted biometric data stored in the form of syndrome vectors such that the random sample of biometric data used to generate the encryption key may be a random sample of the syndrome vectors. The private key may be generated by any conventional technique for generating a private key. The encryption key may be generated using a one way function such as a log based function for example Elgamal Elliptic Curve Menezes Qu Vanstone ECMQV Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman ECDH or the like. The memory of computing platform additionally includes an encryption engine in communication with processor and operable to apply the encryption key to encrypt data .

From the decryption perspective the memory of computing platform may include a biometric address book operable to store biometric data and a private key based on an association with the device from which the biometric data and key were received. The association may be based on device identifier which may be a telephone number an IP address or the like. In some aspects the biometric data stored in the address book may be distorted biometric data and further the distorted biometric data may be in the form of syndrome vectors . Entries in the biometric address book may be created based on an initial first time communication with another computing device.

The memory additionally a decryption key generator operable to obtain a random sample of the biometric data stored in the biometric address book based on the randomizer and generate the decryption key using a combination of the private key and the biometric data random sample . The memory also includes a decryption engine operable to decrypt the encrypted data using the decryption key to result in decrypted data .

Additionally wireless communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

In network computing device which may be configured to include biometric encryption decryption including a biometric address book in accordance with present aspects can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN . Computing device may receive and or generate and communicate communication data packets such as data packets that include biometric data and or encrypted data to and from the wireless devices and . Computing device may be present on the cellular telephone network with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Computing device communicates with carrier network through data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices and by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

At Event the raw biometric data is distorted manipulated or otherwise changed to result in a plurality of distorted biometric data otherwise referred to as cancellable biometric data. In some aspects distorting of the biometric data may be random distortion of the biometric data. Thus at Event an optional randomizer such as a random number or the like may be applied to randomize the distortion process. Additionally in some aspects the distortion of the biometric data may dynamically change over time based on a pre configuration of a distortion algorithm.

At Event the plurality of distorted biometric data is syndrome encoded to result in a plurality of corresponding syndrome vectors. Any known or future known syndrome code may be implemented to provide for generation of the syndrome codes. For example Slepian Wolf SW code or Wyner Ziv WZ code may be used as the syndrome code. Additionally embedded syndrome codes may be implemented which allow the syndrome encoder during enrollment to estimate an inherent variability of biometric data and encode just enough syndrome bits to allow successful syndrome decoding. For a more detailed discussion of biometric syndrome vectors see United States Patent Publication No. 2007 0174633 published Jul. 26 2007 in the name of Draper et al. and entitled Biometric Based User Authentication and Data Encryption . That publication is herein incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein. which will be discussed at length infra. provide a more detailed discussion on how syndrome vectors are formed from biometric data.

At optional Event error correction is applied to at least a portion of the Syndrome Vectors to further secure the biometric data. In those aspects in which error correction is applied to the syndrome vectors the application of error correction may be random. Thus at Event an optional randomizer such as a random number or the like may be applied to the error correction process. In those aspects in which a randomizer is applied to both the distortion of the biometric data Event and the error correction process Event the randomness may be synchronized so as to implement the same randomizer for example the same random number.

At Event the distorted biometric data in syndrome vector format along with the private key is communicated to another computer device. In some aspects the communication of the distorted biometric data and the private key will occur when contact with the other computing device initially occurs. For example based on a first time telephone call data call or the like. The private key which is implemented to encrypt and decrypt the data may be generated by any conventional known or future known private key generation technique.

At Event based on the need to transmit encrypted data an encryption key is generated based on a combination of the private key and a random sample of the distorted biometric data. As such at Event a randomizer such as a random number or the like may be applied to the selection of the distorted biometric data sample to be used in generating the encryption key. In those aspects in which a randomizer is also applied to one or more of the distortion of the biometric data Event and the error correction process Event the randomness may be synchronized so as to implement the same randomizer for example the same random number. In some aspects a one way function may be implemented to generate the encryption key. Examples of one way functions include but are not limited to Elgamel Elliptic Curve Menezes Qu Vanstone ECMQV Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman ECDH or the like.

At Event data to be transmitted is encrypted using the generated encryption key and at Event the encrypted data and the randomizer are communicated to the designated computing device.

In the enrollment phase biometric data is captured sensed measured or otherwise acquired from the user at Event . Thereafter at Event the biometric data is distorted manipulated or otherwise changed to form cancellable distorted biometric data. At Event a syndrome encoder is applied to the distorted biometric data to produce an enrollment syndrome vector. Any type of syndrome code may used to produce the syndrome vector. For example SW code or WZ code may be used as the syndrome code. The syndrome code can be derived from so called repeat accumulate codes namely product accumulate codes and codes known as extended Hamming accumulate codes . In one aspect of the innovation the syndrome encoder can operate on integer valued inputs as opposed to binary valued inputs. Additionally the syndrome encoder may have very high compression rates to minimize storage requirements of the biometric database. Additionally the syndrome encoder can be rate adaptive and be configured to operate in an incremental fashion.

Optionally at Event a message authentication or hash function is applied to the distorted biometric parameters to produce an enrollment hash. The hash function can be any known or future known cryptographic hash function. At Event the enrollment syndrome vector and enrollment hash pair are stored in the biometric database.

In the authentication phase biometric data is again captured sensed measured or otherwise acquired from the user at Event . Thereafter at Event the biometric data is distorted manipulated or otherwise changed according to the same distortion manipulation or change that occurred at the enrollment phase Event resulting in authentication distorted biometric data E . At Event the biometric database is searched to locate the matching enrollment syndrome vector and enrollment hash. The search can check every entry in the database or a heuristically ordered search can be used to accelerate the process of finding a match. At Event syndrome decoding is applied to the enrollment syndrome vector. Any syndrome decoder currently known or known in the future may be implemented. In some aspects syndrome decoders that use belief propagation or turbo codes may be implemented such decoders offer improved error resiliency with low complexity. At Event a direct comparison can be made between the decoded enrollment distorted biometric data E and the authentication distorted biometric data E . If the direct comparison using conventional comparison algorithms determines that the enrollment distorted biometric data is equivalent or otherwise meets a similarity threshold to the authentication distorted biometric data at Event access is granted. If the direct comparison determines that the enrollment distorted biometric data is not equivalent or otherwise does not meet a similarity threshold to the authentication distorted biometric data at Event access is denied.

Optionally at Event if a direct comparison is not implemented and or feasible the hash function is applied to the authentication distorted biometric data to produce an authentication hash. At Event the enrollment hash stored in the biometric database is then compared to the authentication hash and if the values are determined to match or substantially match at Event access is granted. If the comparison determines that the hash values do not match at Event access is denied. The optional use of the hash function in the authentication process provides for additional tolerance of variability from one measurement capture of biometric data to a subsequent measurement capture of biometric data.

For example if the length of the syndrome vector is equivalent to the length of the underlying biometric data any amount of noise variance could be tolerated because the original biometric data can be exactly recovered from the syndrome vector. However an adversary that obtains the equivalent length syndrome vector can readily recover the biometric data compromising the security of the system. In another instance if the syndrome vector includes a small number of bits excellent security is provided because an adversary cannot readily recover the biometric data from the syndrome vector. However in the small bit length syndrome vector example permissible variations between the enrollment biometric data and the authentication data are limited.

As shown in raw biometric data Block is depicted as an iris scan. As previously noted the biometric data may be any biometric data related to the user of the computing device. At Block the raw biometric data is distorted to form either a plurality of distorted biometric data each of the plurality including a segment of the full feature or as shown in a distorted full feature may result from the distortion.

At Block a distorted full feature vector is extracted from the distorted biometric data and at Block the distorted full feature vector is reduced down to a syndrome feature vector. The syndrome feature vector captures those parts of the full feature vector that the security system developer determines to be appropriate for syndrome encoding and decoding. At Block a syndrome code is used to encode the syndrome vector from the syndrome feature vector.

At Block the encoded syndrome vector may optionally undergo error correction to further compress the data. Once the syndrome vectors are error corrected they are stored and or transmitted to other computing devices which rely on the syndrome encoded biometric data for decryption purposes.

Since a plane in which the fingerprint biometric data is measured is quantized by a digital sensor with an array of pixels the feature vector is stored as a matrix. Each sensor pixel corresponds to a particular entry in the matrix. The presence of a minutiae is indicated by a 1 entry while the lack of sensed minutiae is represented by a 0 entry in the matrix. In a more general representation the 1 entry signifying the presence of minutiae may be replaced by entries indicating the angle c of the minutiae.

At Event the raw biometric data is distorted manipulated or otherwise changed to result in a plurality of distorted biometric data otherwise referred to as cancellable biometric data. The distortion process may be implemented in software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. In some aspects distorting of the biometric data may be random distortion of the biometric data. A randomizer such as random number or the like may be applied to randomize the distortion process. Additionally in some aspects the distortion of the biometric data may dynamically change over time based on a pre configuration of a distortion algorithm.

At Event the plurality of distorted biometric data is stored as syndrome vectors in biometric database. As previously noted any known or future known syndrome code may be implemented to provide for generation of the syndrome codes. At optional Event error correction may be applied to at least a portion of the syndrome vectors to further secure the biometric data. In those aspects in which error correction is applied to the syndrome vectors the application of error correction may be random. Thus a randomizer such as a random number or the like may be applied to the error correction process. In those aspects in which a randomizer is applied to both the distortion of the biometric data Event and the error correction process Event the randomness may be synchronized so as to implement the same randomizer for example the same random number.

At Event a random sample of the distorted biometric is obtained from the biometric database. Thus a randomizer such as a random number or the like is applied to the selection of the sample of the distorted biometric data. In those aspects in which a randomizer is also applied to one or more of the distortion of the biometric data Event and the error correction process Event the randomness may be synchronized so as to implement the same randomizer for example the same random number.

At Event an encryption key is generated based on a combination of the private key and the random sample of the distorted biometric data. In some aspects a one way function may be implemented to generate the encryption key. Examples of one way functions include but are not limited to Elgamel Elliptic Curve Menezes Qu Vanstone ECMQV Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman ECDH or the like. At Event data is encrypted using the generated encryption key.

At Event the biometric data and private key are registered in the biometric address book. Registering the biometric data and private key in the address book requires an association with the device that communicated the biometric data and private key. The association may be made via a device identifier such as a telephone number IP number or the like.

At Event encrypted data and a randomizer such as a random number or the like is received. Receipt of the encrypted data and randomizer may coincide with the receipt of the biometric data and private key or the receipt of the encrypted data and randomizer may be at a later point in time. At Event a random sample of the biometric data associated with the device that communicated the encrypted data is obtained. In this regard the device identifier allows for retrieving the biometric data from the biometric address book and the randomizer provides for obtaining the random sample of the retrieved biometric data.

At Event a decryption key is generated based on the private key and the random sample of the biometric data. In many aspects the decryption key is generated utilizing the same one way function implementing in encrypting the data. Thus the one way function may include but are not limited to Elgamel Elliptic Curve Menezes Qu Vanstone ECMQV Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman ECDH or the like. At Event the data is decrypted using the generated decryption key.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

This present aspects herein describe methods apparatus and computer program products that provide for an identity based cryptosystem using a highly secure biometric model through which both access and data transmission are effectively made secure. Through implementation of generating and securely storing biometric data as syndrome vectors tolerance is provided for the inherent variability of biometric data. In addition to insure that the biometric data is not duplicated by adversaries who might gain access to the syndrome generation algorithm and the biometric data present aspects provide for keeping the private key more secure and making the cryptosystem user identity dependent. As such the systems apparatus and computer program products herein disclosed provide end to end authentication of end users using secure biometry which constitute the symmetric and or asymmetric identity based cryptosystem.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

