---

title: Business application address determination
abstract: According to one general aspect, a method may comprise identifying a provider application that is associated with a consumer application, from amongst a plurality of provider applications hosted on a provider machine. In various embodiments, the identification may be based at least in part upon the provider application's business identifier (ID). In various embodiments, each provider application includes at least one web service. In some embodiments, the plurality of provider applications includes a plurality of instantiations of at least one of the web service. In various embodiments, the method may also include transmitting a message to one of the web services of the identified provider application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08661103&OS=08661103&RS=08661103
owner: SAP AG
number: 08661103
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20081218
---
This description relates to network communication specifically to network communication between multiple business applications.

Traditionally large infrastructure level software applications have been locally installed and executed on a customer s computing machine either as a stand alone application or as an internal client server system. Alternatively a customer may purchase a mainframe or multi headed system in which the application is executed by a single centralized machine and multiple users may access the machine via a plurality of individual keyboards and screens colloquially referred to as heads .

Software as a service SAAS is a model of software deployment where an application is hosted in whole or part as a service provided to customers across a network e.g. the Internet etc. . By eliminating the need to install and run the entire application on the customer s own computer SAAS often alleviates the customer s burden of software maintenance ongoing operation and support. Conversely customers often relinquish control over the software. Also using SAAS can typically reduce the up front expense of software purchases through less costly often on demand pricing. From the software vendor s standpoint SAAS has the attraction of providing stronger protection of its intellectual property establishing an ongoing revenue stream and attracting customers who might traditionally be priced out of the market. In general a SAAS software vendor may host the application on its own server or this function may be handled by a third party application service provider ASP .

Enterprise resource planning ERP is typically the planning of how business resources e.g. inventory employees customers etc. are acquired and flow through the business process associated with each resource. Frequently ERP includes the capture storage and analysis of information relating to the tracked resources. In various cases ERP may be divided into sub categories or systems pertaining to financials human capital management materials management customer relationship management sales distribution and production planning corporate services and or general operations management. In general a well executed ERP system enhances productivity and provides insight to a business. Often an ERP customer may wish to keep their ERP data secret from their competitors and more generally the world.

Customer relationship management CRM is typically the practice of intelligently finding marketing to selling to and servicing customers. Frequently CRM includes the capture storage and analysis of information relating to customers vendors partners and or internal systems. Often a customer may wish to keep their customer relationship management data secret from their competitors and more generally the world.

According to one general aspect a method may comprise identifying a provider application that is associated with a consumer application from amongst a plurality of provider applications hosted on a provider machine. In various embodiments the identification may be based at least in part upon the provider application s business identifier ID . In various embodiments each provider application includes at least one web service. In some embodiments the plurality of provider applications includes a plurality of instantiations of at least one of the web service. In various embodiments the method may also include transmitting a message to one of the web services of the identified provider application.

According to another general aspect an apparatus may include business logic functions and at least one consumer communication proxy. In various embodiments the business logic functions may be configured to perform logical operations on business data. In some embodiments the consumer communication proxy may be configured to identify a provider application that is associated with the apparatus from amongst a plurality of provider applications hosted on a provider machine. In various embodiments the identification may be based at least in part upon the provider application s business identifier ID . In various embodiments each provider application includes at least one web service. In one embodiment the plurality of provider applications includes a plurality of instantiations of at least one of the web service. In some embodiments the consumer communication proxy may be configured to transmit a message to one of the web services of the identified provider application.

According to another general aspect a method may include receiving by a web service a message from a consumer application that includes a business application identifier that substantially uniquely identifies the consumer application. In some embodiments the method may include determining based upon the business application ID a logical port address with which to communicate with at least a portion of the consumer application. In one embodiment the method may include transmitting via a communication proxy a response message to the consumer application via the determined logical port address.

According to another general aspect an apparatus may include business logic functions at least one web service and at least one communications proxy. In various embodiments the business logic functions may be configured to perform logical operations on business data. In some embodiments the web service may be configured to receive a message from a consumer application that includes a business application identifier that substantially uniquely identifies the consumer application. In one embodiment the communications proxy may be configured to determine based upon the business application ID a logical port address with which to communicate with at least a portion of the consumer application. In some embodiments the communications proxy may be configured to transmit a response message to the consumer application via the determined logical port address.

According to another general aspect a computer program product may comprise a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein. In some embodiments the computer readable program code may be adapted to be executed to implement a method for the determining a logical port address. In one embodiment the method may include identifying a provider application that is associated with a consumer application from amongst a plurality of provider applications hosted on a provider machine. In various embodiments the identification may be based at least in part upon the provider application s business identifier ID . In some embodiments each provider application includes at least one web service. In one embodiment the plurality of provider applications includes a plurality of instantiations of at least one of the web service. In various embodiments the method may include transmitting a message to one of the web services of the identified provider application.

According to another general aspect a computer program product may comprise a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein. In some embodiments the computer readable program code may be adapted to be executed to implement a method for the determining a logical port address. In one embodiment the method may include receiving by a web service a message from a consumer application that includes a business application identifier that substantially uniquely identifies the consumer application. In various embodiments the method may include determining based upon the business application ID a logical port address with which to communicate with at least a portion of the consumer application. In one embodiment the method may include transmitting by a communications proxy a response message to the consumer application via the determined logical port address.

According to another general aspect a consumer application may include at least one communications proxy configured to communicate with a web service included by a provider application. In some embodiments the consumer application may also include an application programmable interface API . In one embodiment the API may include a logical port address determination procedure configured to take as input a value communication representing a communications proxy and a value respecting a substantially unique identifier of a business application and provide a logical port address with which the communications proxy can communicate with the business application. In some embodiments the API may be include a business application identifier determination procedure configured to provide a substantially unique identifier of the consumer application.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A system and or method for communicating information substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

In this context a consumer application may be any application e.g. software firmware hardware etc. that makes use of a provider application e.g. a provider application . In various embodiments the consumer application may in turn provide services e.g. business logic or processing storage etc. to another application and or may not be used by an end customer.

In this context a provider application may be any application e.g. software firmware hardware etc. that provides a service e.g. business logic storage etc. to a consumer application e.g. a consumer application . In various embodiments the provider application may in turn consume or make use of a service provided by another application or service.

In this context the term business application may refer to either a consumer application e.g. consumer application or a provider application e.g. provider application . In such an embodiment a business application may perform a business function e.g. a portion of CRM inventory management sales management ERP etc. in which a service provided by another is consumed or a service is provided to another who consumes the product of the service.

In one embodiment the consumer application may include a set of business logic functions a plurality of consumer communication proxies CCPs e.g. CCPs and and a business application identifier ID . In various embodiments the business application ID may be configured to substantially uniquely identify the consumer application at least within the system . This may be contrasted with a business application name e.g. CRM v1.2 etc. which may be a human readable descriptor of the business application but may be repeated several times within a system if the business application is instantiated multiple times e.g. a system like that illustrated in etc. .

In one embodiment the consumer application may include various business logic functions . In some embodiments these business logic functions may include the logic to perform a set of business operations e.g. CRM tasks ERP tasks user interface tasks etc. although it is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In one embodiment the consumer application may include a plurality of consumer communication proxies . In various embodiments these CCPs may be configured to convert a message from a first format or protocol to a second format or protocol. In some embodiments a CCP may include a input output interface configured to convert data or a message from an internal format used by the business logic functions to an external format or protocol usable by a network or a web service e.g. web service A etc. and vice versa. Examples of external formats or protocols may include remote procedure calls RPCs extensible markup language XML formatted messages Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP etc. Although it is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the plurality of CCPs may be grouped into a consumer service group CSG . In various embodiments a consumer service group may provide a convenient entity that may be associated with other objects e.g. business applications IDs etc. .

In various embodiments the provider application may include business logic functions a plurality of web services and its own business application ID . In such an embodiment the business application ID may substantially uniquely identify the provider application .

In various embodiments the plurality of web services e.g. web services and etc. may be configured to provide an interface for a service or logical function offered and substantially performed by the provider application . In various embodiments a web service may perform a relatively minimal task e.g. adding a customer to a database converting currency values retrieving an item or record from a database etc. . As such in various embodiments a provider application may include a large number of web services . In such an embodiment a web service may be thought to be more analogous to an individual function or method than to an all encompassing service. Such an encompassing service may be the sum of the individual web services and be provided by the provider application . Although it is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the Service Registry SR may include an open standard based registry for web services. In some embodiments the service registry may be located centrally within an Enterprise Service Architecture ESA landscape. In such an embodiment the service registry may contain or include entries for all services and service definitions in that landscape with references to the services relevant metadata and to the locations of the callable service endpoints. In various embodiments the registered services may be classified using a semantic rich classification system e.g. Business Application ID to enable browsing of services by classification.

In various embodiments the provider application or the web service may transmit a message to the service registry . In such an embodiment the web service or provider application may register itself within the service registry . In some embodiments the message may include the business application ID and one or more web services description language WSDL message . In various embodiments the WSDL message or an equivalent may describe and define the web service . In various embodiments WSDL message may include an interface and network address description for the web service from which a logical port address e.g. logical port address may be derived. In some embodiments the WSDL message may directly include the logical port address of the web service . In various embodiments the WDSL message may include WDSL messages for a plurality of web services e.g. web services and .

In some embodiments the service registry may be configured to match or associate two or more business applications such that the business applications may communicate. In various embodiments the service registry may match or associate consumer applications e.g. consumer application with one or more provider applications e.g. provider application . In some embodiments this association may be dynamic or statically configured. For example the consumer application may deal with inventory management specifically the front end or user interface and need a service to provide back end functions. The provider application may provide services e.g. database storage logical business rules inventory tracking quality handling etc. that are useful to inventory management. In some embodiments the service registry or an administrator thereof may associate the two business applications.

In various embodiments the consumer application may transmit its business application ID to a service registry via a message . In some embodiments the service registry may be configured to facilitate the configuration of business applications e.g. consumer application provider application etc. within a system e.g. system . In various embodiments the message may be viewed as or include a request message in which the consumer application requests identification of the provider applications with which it is associated.

In such an embodiment the service registry may transmit the business application ID of the provider application and its logical port addresses to the consumer application via the message . In various embodiments the logical port addresses may be derived or extracted from the WDSL message supplied by the provider application .

In various embodiments each web service may include or be associated with a logical port address. In various embodiments the logical port address may store the host name and port number where the web service may be reached on the network. In such an embodiment the logical port address may include a universal resource locator URL or universal resource identifier URI for example although it is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In some embodiments the logical port address may also include the security settings e.g. protocol username password etc. used to communicate with the web service . In various embodiments the logical port address may be automatically generated by the web service or the provider application .

In various embodiments once the consumer application is are aware of the provider application for example via the service registry message communication and interaction between the two business applications may begin. In one embodiment communication may begin once one of the business applications e.g. the consumer application asynchronously communicates with the other e.g. provider application as described below in reference to .

In various embodiments not illustrated the service registry may be configured to assign a business application ID to a business application as opposed to the business application generating or being manually configured with the business application ID.

In one embodiment the provider applications and may be executed or included by a single provider machine . In various embodiments the provider machine may include a plurality of machines operating with a common interface e.g. a load balanced group of servers etc. . In such an embodiment the provider applications and may instantiate a plurality of copies of substantially identical web services e.g. web service A and web service B .

In such an embodiment multiple provider applications may overlap in their functionality e.g. both may include the service add entry to database etc. . The duplicated web services may include the same software firmware or hardware in various embodiments. In various embodiments the duplicated or multiply instantiated web services may include the same web service name or identifier port number etc.

In such an embodiment it may be very difficult for a consumer application to determine whether it should be communicating with the web service B of provider application or the web service B of provider application . If the wrong web service is chosen by the consumer application a transmitted messaged may be ignored or worse. For example if the consumer application believed it was transmitting a SCM message to provider application but instead the consumer application had transmitted the SCM message to web service B of PLM provider application the message would fail the data included may never be entered or the function requested may never be performed etc. Although it is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

Therefore it is often necessary to select not only the correct web service to communicate with but the correct provider application too. In various embodiments this may include selecting from multiple provider applications hosted on different machines e.g. provider machines and . In such an embodiment the selection process may be less difficult as the two machines and may include different host names domain names network addresses e.g. Internet protocol IP addresses etc. as opposed to the case involving multiple provider applications and on the same machine and may therefore for example have the same host names domain names network addresses etc. .

In one embodiment the consumer application may be configured to identifying a provider application that is associated with a consumer application from amongst a plurality of provider applications and hosted on a provider machine . In various embodiments identifying may include using a business application ID associated with the provider application e.g. business application ID . In some embodiments the provider application s business application ID may have been received by the consumer application by a service registry as described above. In another embodiment the business application ID may have been received as part of a message from the provider application as described below in reference to .

In various embodiments the consumer application may have grouped a plurality of CCPs and into a consumer service group . In one embodiment these may be the CCPs that interact with a specific business application e.g. one handling SCM . In various embodiments a CCP may belong to or be included by multiple CSGs e.g. if the CCP dealt with both SCM and SRM functions . In the illustrated embodiment the CSG may be associated with the business application ID of a provider application .

In one embodiment the consumer application or portion thereof may use the business application ID to determine the logical port address of a particular web service e.g. web service A web service B web service C . In various embodiments the consumer application may maintain a list or mapping that associates business applications IDs with web services and the web services logical port addresses. In such an embodiment the CCP or other portion of the consumer application e.g. business logic functions may query the mapping or portion of the consumer application e.g. logical port address LPA mapping with the business application ID e.g. business application ID and the desired web service e.g. web service A and be provided with web service A s LPA.

In one embodiment the consumer application may be associated with a plurality of provider applications e.g. provider applications and . In various embodiments the business logic function may determine a particular type of business application to transmit a message to e.g. a SRM business application a SCM business application etc. . The consumer application may determine which of the associated provider applications provides the desired business application e.g. provider application for SRM provider application for SCM etc. . In one embodiment once the provider application is determined the provider application s business application ID may be used to determine the logical port address.

In another possibly more preferred embodiment the order of determination may be reversed. Once the desired business application is selected e.g. SRM the consumer application may determine the business application ID for the business application that provides that service. In such an embodiment the business application ID e.g. business application ID may be compared with the associated provider applications to determine the appropriate provider application identified e.g. provider application . In such an embodiment a list or array of web services provided by the selected provider application may be determined and a particular web service e.g. web service A may be selected. The logical port address of the selected web service may be retrieved e.g. from the LPA mapping .

Once the web service s LPA e.g. web service A s LPA has been determined the CCP may transmit a message to the desired web service e.g. web service A of the identified provider application . Message illustrates that the same process may be repeated or performed in regards to web service A of provider application if for example if a SCM message is sent to provider application . Messages and illustrate that the same or an analogous process may occur for communication between other CCPs and web services e.g. the CCP and the web service B . In various embodiments the communication or a portion thereof may be asynchronous or unsolicited. In another embodiment the communication or a portion thereof may be synchronized or part of a series of messages e.g. request response acknowledgement etc. .

Messages and illustrate that in various embodiments the consumer application may communicate with two or more provider applications e.g. provider applications and within a single provider machine or system . Returning to the specific example embodiment used above provider application may provide SCM services and provider application may provide PLM services. In various embodiments they may instantiate or copy the same web services e.g. web service A and web service B and include non overlapping services e.g. web service C and web service D .

In such an embodiment it may be very difficult for the consumer application to tell the multiply instantiated web services e.g. web service A and web service B apart as they share many networking characteristics e.g. host name domain name port etc. as a function of being included by the provider machine . In one embodiment the consumer application may make use of the different business application IDs e.g. business application IDs and to differentiate the web services of the two provider applications and . As described above in various embodiments these business application IDs may be used to determine the different logical port addresses of the web services e.g. web service A of provider application and web service A of provider application .

It is understood that the above systems and are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In various embodiments a consumer application may communicate with any number of provider applications co located or physically separated.

In various embodiments the messages illustrated by may include messages in addition to the usual business application messages. In such an embodiment the illustrated messages may provide an additional communication infrastructure for their respective systems.

In one embodiment the system may include a plurality of consumer applications e.g. consumer applications and and at least one provider application e.g. provider application . In various embodiments the consumer applications and may be included by a single consumer machine or entity .

In some embodiments there may be multiple consumer applications and installed on a single consumer system implementing or instantiating some of the same interfaces e.g. consumer web service N CCP etc. . As previously mentioned in reference to one might try to differentiate these implementations with the help of the Business Application ID which may be a substantially globally unique ID GUID . In various embodiments the business application ID may be transferred in the payload of a message and may be used by the provider application to identify the transmitting consumer application. In such embodiments an identification framework or application programming interface API may be used by the provider application to send messages back to the consumer application asynchronously decoupled from the request received by the consumer application.

In various embodiments this concept may be used not only between two business applications within one homogeneous system but also with third party components or business applications. In some embodiments Business Application ID may be used to identify an interface implementation uniquely and may be protocol independent. In one embodiment it may be immaterial whether the communication occurs via any predefined or embodiment limiting protocol e.g. SAP AG s NetWeaver standards web services WS standards exchange infrastructure XI Intermediate Documents IDOC etc. although it is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the consumer application may transmit an unsolicited or asynchronous message to the provider application . In such an embodiment it may be difficult or cumbersome using conventional techniques for the provider application to determine which consumer application or transmitted the message . For example in one embodiment as both consumer applications and are included by the same consumer machine messages from both may include the same source networking information e.g. network address host name domain name etc. . Therefore the provider application may not be able to or may find it difficult to determine from the header of the message whence it came.

In some embodiments the message may include the business application ID of the transmitting consumer application . In various embodiments the business application ID may be included as a portion or part of the payload or data portion of the message .

In various embodiments the message may include a request or instruction that requires a response. Furthermore in one embodiment the message may include an instruction or request that may that a long period of time to complete such that a relatively immediate response is not expected. In such an embodiment the consumer application may not halt or block other operations while awaiting the response to message . In such an embodiment the provider application may provide the response message asynchronously whenever the request of message is ready to be fulfilled. Although it is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In such an embodiment the provider application or receiving web service may use the received business application ID to determine the logical port address of a consumer web service N of consumer application to which a response message should be returned. In various embodiments the provider application or provider communication proxy A may identify the web service N s logical port address in much the same way as the CCP determined the provider s web service s LPA as described above in reference to .

Note in various embodiments both the consumer application and the provider application may include both web services e.g. consumer web service N provider web service A etc. and communication proxies e.g. CCP provider communication proxy PCP etc. . It is also understood that the prefix s consumer and provider attached to web service and communication ports may in various embodiments be merely illustrative and used in aid of the explanation of the disclosed subject matter. As described above in various embodiments and consumer application may in some circumstances act as a provider application and vice versa. In various embodiments the CCPs and PCP for example may be implemented or derived from a generic or reference communication proxy likewise with the web services.

In such an embodiment the PCP or provider application may maintain a mapping of business application IDs to LPAs as described above. In one embodiment the PCP may match the received business application ID to a set of mapped web services e.g. web service N of consumer application . From this list of web services an appropriate web service N may be found and the web service N s LPA may be determined.

In various embodiments the provider application may group the communication proxies and into a provider service group . In one embodiment this provider service group may be used analogously to the consumer service group as described above. In such an embodiment a function or procedure may take the received business application ID the provider service group and the transmitting PCP as arguments or parameters and return the LPA of the desired web service as described above.

In various embodiments the provider application may return or respond to the received message with a response message . As described above in some embodiments this message may be transmitted asynchronously as the message is available for transmission as opposed to part of synchronized procedure although it is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments as illustrated by a provider application may be thought of as acting as or analogous to a consumer application . In such an embodiment the provider application makes use of the business application ID to determine a logical port address of a portion e.g. a web service of another business application e.g. consumer application vs. a provider application that it wishes to communicate with. In some embodiments an analogous process may be employed for consumer application to consumer application or provider application to provider application communication.

It is understood that while the illustrated embodiments show only one a particular type of business application e.g. one consumer application in and one provider application in that embodiments may exist that include a plurality of both consumer and provider applications and that their communication patterns may become quite complex and are within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In various embodiments the messages illustrated by may include messages in addition to the usual business application messages. In such an embodiment the illustrated messages may provide an additional communication infrastructure for their respective systems.

In one embodiment the message may include a header portion and a payload or data portion . In various embodiments the header portion may include supplemental information often in various embodiments used to route the message along or through a network. In some embodiments the payload or data portion may include the information transmitted or contained in the message. illustrates two embodiments of the data portion although it is understood that the below are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In one embodiment the data portion may include a business application ID portion and a portion including other data as desired or dictated by the CCP or web service. In such an embodiment the business application ID portion may include the business application ID of the business application e.g. consumer application or provider application transmitting the message .

In another embodiment the data portion may include a serialized object . In various embodiments the serialized object may include bit pattern representing a software object or grouped memory storage portion that includes variables and or procedures including machine executable instructions. In various embodiments upon receipt of the serialized object the receiving machine may load the bit pattern into memory and access the variable values and execute the procedures. In various embodiments members are also referred to as properties or members. In some embodiments procedures are also referred to as methods or functions.

In one embodiment the serialized object may include a business application ID variable configured to hold a value representing the business application ID of the transmitting business application e.g. consumer application or provider application . In some embodiments this variable may be accessible by a procedure stored in the procedure portion . In such an embodiment the serialized object may include other variables portion and or a procedure portion configured to store the respective bit patterns representing the portions of the object that has been serialized.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment the consumer application may be associated with a plurality of provider applications as described above. In various embodiments each provider application may be configured to provide a business application as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the registry of the consumer application of and or the logic port address mapping of and as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a business application may be selected with which to communicate as described above. In various embodiments the business application may be selected based upon the logical function being performed at the moment as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the consumer application of and or the business logic functions of and as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a provider application may be identified that is associated with a consumer application from amongst a plurality of provider applications hosted on a provider machine as described above. In various embodiments indentifying may include receiving a business application ID from a registry as described above. In various embodiments the business application ID may substantially uniquely identifies the provider application as described above.

In various embodiments indentifying may include grouping a plurality of consumer communication proxies into a consumer service group as described above. In some embodiments indentifying may include associating the consumer service group with at least one business application ID of a provider application as described above. In various embodiments indentifying may include identifying a logical port address of the provider application that includes the business application ID associated with the consumer service group.

In some embodiments identifying may include selecting a business application with which to communicate wherein the business application is associated with a business application identifier as described above. In various embodiments identifying may include acquiring a set of provider applications with which the consumer application is associated as described above. In one embodiment identifying may include determining which of the provider applications included in the set of provider applications includes the business application ID of the selected business application as described above. In some embodiments identifying may include selecting one of the web services of the determined provider application with which to communicate as described above.

In some embodiments identifying may include identifying a provider application based upon the business application provided by the provider application as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the consumer application of and or the consumer communications proxy of and as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a message may be transmitted to one of the web services of the identified provider application as described above. In various embodiments transmitting may include asynchronously transmitting a message to one of the web services of the identified provider application as described above.

In another embodiment transmitting may include providing a consumer communication proxy with a provided message and a logical port address for the web service as described above. In some embodiments transmitting may include converting by the consumer communication proxy the provided message from a first format to a second format as described above. In one embodiment transmitting may include transmitting by the communication proxy the provided message to the logical port address of the web service as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the consumer application of and or the consumer communications proxy of and as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment the consumer application may include a business application ID that substantially uniquely identifies the consumer application as described above. In such an embodiment transmitting may include transmitting an unsolicited message to a provider application wherein the unsolicited message includes the business application ID of the consumer application as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the consumer application of and or the consumer communications proxy of and as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a message from a consumer application may be received by a web service which includes a business application identifier that substantially uniquely identifies the consumer application as described above. In various embodiments receiving may include receiving an unsolicited message including at least one serialized object as described above. In some embodiments receiving may include receiving a message that includes the business application identifier as a portion of the data payload of the message as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the provider application of and or the web service of and as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a logical port address may be determined based upon the business application ID with which to communicate with at least a portion of the consumer application as described above. In various embodiments the logical port address may include a network address of and security information regarding a web service that is included by the consumer application and configured to communicate with a communications proxy included by the receiving provider application as described above.

In some embodiments determining may include receiving from a registry during a configuration period a plurality of associations between business application IDs and respective logical port addresses as described above. In various embodiments determining may include matching the business application ID included in the received message with one of the business application IDs received by the registry as described above. In one embodiment determining may include identifying a logical port address that is associated with matched business application ID and the communications proxy as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the provider application of and or the communications proxy or of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a response message may be transmitted to the consumer application via the determined logical port address as described above. In various embodiments transmitting may include transmitting the response via a communications proxy included by the provider application as described above. In various embodiments the action s described by this Block may be performed by the provider application of and or the communications proxy or of as described above.

In one embodiment the API may include two portions. A first portion for use or to be employed for communication similar to that described in and . In such an embodiment that the consumer application may choose the provider application and it s logical port where a message is to be sent as described above. In while the consumer application may employ this API when transmitting message the API may also be employed by the provider application when transmitting message as described above. And a second portion for use or to be employed for communication similar to that described in . In such an embodiment the API may be employed in order to transfer the business application ID of the consumer application in the payload of message so that the provider application will know to whom it has to send back the response message as described above. Although it is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the first communications case or scheme may make use of a consumer group handler class a provider application class and a web service class . In such an embodiment these classes and may be employed to determine or identify a logical port address of a web service associated with a communications proxy as described above.

In some embodiments the consumer group handler class may be configured to provide either a list of provider applications associated with a consumer group and or a logical port name or address. In one embodiment the consumer group handler class may include at least two publically available methods . In one embodiment the method named get provider applications may be configured to take a consumer group name e.g. the name of consumer group of as input and return or provide a list array or collection of provider applications associated with that consumer group. In some embodiments this method or a similar such method may be used to identify which business application should be used to fulfill a particular business function as described above.

In various embodiments the method named Get logical port by business application ID may be configured to take a consumer group name a communications proxy name e.g. the name of CCP of and the business application ID of the target provider application e.g. business application ID of provider application of and return the logical port address or name of the appropriate web service e.g. web service with whom the CCP should communicate. In some embodiments this method or a similar such method may be used or employed to determine a logical port address as described above.

In some embodiments the provider application class may be configured to hold or group information related to an actual provider application e.g. provider application of . In various embodiments the provider application class may be instantiated or created in memory on a consumer machine or application. In one embodiment the provider application class may be employed when identifying an actual provider application e.g. provider application of by its business application ID as described above.

In various embodiments the provider application class may include a plurality of publically available variables or properties . In one embodiment the provider application class may include a variable named consumer group name that identifies or names the consumer group with which this provider application class is associated. In another embodiment the provider application class may include a variable named UDDI system name configured to identify the Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI registry or service registry e.g. service registry of containing or managing information regarding the represented actual provider application. In another embodiment the provider application class may include a variables named business system name and or business application name configured to identify the business application and functions provided by the represented actual provider application e.g. CRM v1.0 NetWeaver 2.0 etc. . In one embodiment the provider application class may include a variable named business application ID configured to substantially uniquely identify the represented actual provider application as described above. It is noted that while in various embodiments the business application ID may be substantially unique the business application name may include a human readable description of the business application that may occur multiple times within the system as multiple copies or instantiations of the business application are created. As such attempts to identify an application based upon its name may return many provider applications while an attempt to identify an application based upon its ID should return only one provider application.

In some embodiments the web service class may be configured to hold or group information related to an actual web service e.g. web service of . In various embodiments the web service class may be instantiated or created in memory on a consumer machine or application. In one embodiment the web service class may be employed when determining the logical port address with which to communicate with a web service e.g. web service of or a provider application e.g. provider application of as described above.

In various embodiments the web service class may include a plurality of publically available variables or properties . In one embodiment the web service class may include a variable named consumer group name as described above. In another embodiment the web service class may include a variable named UDDI system name as described above. In another embodiment the web service class may include variables named business system name and business application name as described above. In another embodiment the web service class may include a variable named proxy name configured to identify the communications proxy associated with the web service. In various embodiments this variable may be used to identify which web service a communications proxy is configured to communicate with as described above. In another embodiment the web service class may include a variable named logical port name or logical port address configured to store the logical port address associated with the represented web service as described above. In some embodiments the web service class may include a variable named runtime protocol configured to store or identify the communications protocol employed by the represented web service. In various embodiments this information may be stored as part of the logical port name.

In various embodiments the second communications case or scheme illustrated by may make use of a provider identifier class . In such an embodiment this class may be employed to determine or identify a business application ID of a consumer application e.g. consumer application of prior to embedding the business application ID into message e.g. message of . In another embodiment an instantiation of the class may be embedded into the message and then used or employed by the receiving provider application to determine the business application ID of the consumer application.

In one embodiment the provider identifier class may include at least one publicly accessible method . In various embodiments this method may be named get business application ID and configured to return the business application ID of the consumer application or business application which first instantiated the class .

It is understood that the above names and identifiers are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In various other embodiments the API may include differently named classes variables and or methods. Likewise in various embodiments the number of variables and or methods may be changed without alerting the underlying function of facilitating a programmatic interface for determining the business application ID and logical port address of a business application to further the communication scenarios illustrated by and or and other scenarios within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a graphical user interface GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system etc. .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory includes a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory includes a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output I O device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a micro drive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described herein can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described herein can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described herein can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

