---

title: Hosted network device user interface
abstract: A system and method of hosting a user interface of a network device are provided. A particular method includes receiving a request at a server to display a user interface of the network device, authenticating an end user device to validate an identity of a user, and communicating display information of the user interface of the network device to the end user device for display. The server hosted user interface permits monitoring and interactions with the network device by a user of the end user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949936&OS=08949936&RS=08949936
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 08949936
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080619
---
Products tailored for home use and for other small networks include user interfaces that are customized for a particular device installation. Configuration pages for each network device are typically designed based on the particular network device capabilities. Typically the user interface installations are hosted on devices via HyperText Markup Language HTML such as a web server stored on the network device. The user interfaces are often dependent on Java Script or another type of browser based mechanism for network device error checking.

These types of network device user interface installations add costs to deployment of the network devices. Also the network devices have limited processor and storage resources.

While standardization localization and verification are areas where there is a need for improved user interfaces maintaining a standard user interface across multiple devices and multiple revisions and upgrades of such devices from various vendors is a difficult and complex problem. Standard interfaces may have a common display but due to error checking programming and other coding differences the user interfaces may not act the same. For each language a network device needs to support a new firmware file is often created. For example a router model could have several different firewall versions such as versions in English German or French. Some network devices support multiple languages but the number of languages is limited based on the amount of memory and since the language file is local the language file may be difficult to modify.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method of hosting a user interface of a network device. In a particular embodiment the method includes receiving a request at a server to display the user interface of the network device at an end user device authenticating the end user device to validate an identity of a user and communicating display information of the user interface of the network device to the end user device for display. The user interface hosted at the server permits end user monitoring and interactions with the network device. The network device may perform various operations such as network management functions including parental control firmware updates firewall configuration or diagnostics of a network or of the network device.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In a particular embodiment a network device is disclosed that includes at least one application programming interface API to support a remotely hosted user interface of the network device. The remotely hosted user interface permits remote access to device settings of the network device. The network device includes validation logic to permit controlled access to the at least one API to support the remotely hosted user interface. The network device also includes a network communication interface to communicate with a computer data network. The network device may provide controlled access to limited aspects of the interface supported by the API in response to receiving security information such as a session key user name and password or a certificate from a remote device.

An end user device or a hosted web user interface at a server may access the API at the network device as an interface to remotely host the user interface for display and control of device settings of the network device. The end user device may be a personal computer coupled to the network device via an Internet Protocol IP network.

In a particular embodiment the personal computer includes a processor and a memory including processor executable instructions. The processor executable instructions are executable by the processor to perform operations of a network service application using an integrated user interface at the personal computer device. The network service application includes instructions executable by the processor to make function calls to the API at the network device to retrieve and display device settings of the network device. The device settings are displayable and controllable via the integrated user interface of the personal computer. The network service application may be loaded into the memory of the personal computer from computer readable media that is provided as a package together with the network device for installation and deployment.

Network device user interfaces are often handled via browser based mechanisms such as Java Script. By using a network based service the network device user interface is moved to a server based mechanism that can provide a richer experience and can assist the user to verify that the network device is configured correctly. The disclosed system removes a standard user interface stored at the network device and provides a hosted user interface through a network service a local personal computer utility or a combination thereof. The disclosed system provides an approach that improves the user experience and can be supported by a service provider on a device class basis. In addition localization and regionalization of network device configurations may be supported by one or more service providers remotely leading to further improvement in the user experience. Device installation and configuration is implemented using an application programming interface API together with a trusted technology such as web services. Network device settings control status updates and access applications or functions may be performed using a web based personal computer user interface. A personal computer having an installed Windows platform can use certain protocols such as UpnP to interact with network devices automatically. Separation of the network device and the user interface that is used to manage the network device by use of hosted services is supported by the API on the network device.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a system that uses a personal computer utility to support a user interface of a network device is shown. The system includes a representative network device an end user device and a display . The end user device may be a personal computer or another type of electronics device such as a cellular telephone. The network device is coupled to the end user device via a distributed computer network such as an Internet network. The network device is coupled to a variety of other devices such as a representative Wi Fi device an Ethernet device and a data router . The network device includes a network protocol module a computer readable memory and one or more system APIs and hardware HW interfaces . The one or more system APIs and hardware interfaces are used to communicate with the various types of hardware devices such as the Wi Fi device the Ethernet device and the data router . The computer readable memory includes device settings for each of the devices supported by the network device . In various embodiments the network device may be a router a digital picture frame a personal computer a media device a set top box a smart telephone a gaming device a computer attached electronic device or any combination thereof.

The network protocol module is used to communicate with the computer network and the end user device . The end user device may be a computer that includes computer components such as a processor a memory and a network interface . The network interface is used to communicate with the network and is coupled to the processor and the memory . The processor is coupled to the memory and may execute computer executable instructions to perform various functions and operations of the personal computer. For example the processor may execute network service instructions stored in the memory . The network service instructions may be retrieved via the network or may be retrieved from local storage such as from an external media provided with the network device as shown at . The external media may be a compact disc or other media device that provides computer readable instructions for performing the network service operations. The processor also is coupled to or executes a hosted web user interface to render network configuration data to a user as shown at . The web user interface to render network configuration data to the user is coupled to display network configuration data via the display .

In a particular embodiment the network device including the system API supports a remotely hosted network device user interface . The remotely hosted user interface permits remote access by the end user device to device settings of the network device . The network device also includes validation logic to permit controlled access by the end user device to the system APIs to support the remotely hosted user interface .

In a particular embodiment during operation controlled access to the system APIs is provided to the end user device in response to receiving security information such as a session key a user name and password or a certificate from the end user device . The end user device via the computer network has controlled access to and may use the system APIs of the network device to remotely host a user interface for display and control of the device settings stored in the memory of the network device . In a particular embodiment the user interface of the end user device is integrated with the network service instructions . The network service instructions are operative via the end user device to call the system APIs of the network device to utilize remotely hosted user interface functionality. With the remotely hosted user interface capability the end user device may make function calls to the system APIs to retrieve and display the device settings from the memory . The device settings may be displayable and controllable via the integrated user interface of the end user device . Thus the retrieved device settings may be displayed at the display .

In addition the end user device may interact with a user to control the device settings remotely. In a particular embodiment the network interface may be an internal interface as shown or may provide access to the network via an Internet gateway device not shown which may be external to the end user device . The end user device may use the hosted web user interface and may interact with the system APIs of the network device using control functions to acquire information capabilities status logs etc. device settings run network device diagnostics or to perform other interactive configuration operations for the network device . The end user device may provide a remotely hosted user interface that is specifically tailored to the particular network device or the remotely hosted user interface may provide a generic user interface that is adjusted based on the particular capabilities of the network device .

As an example a user of the end user device may make changes to configuration data such as changes to the configuration data of the Wi Fi device via the web user interface . When the user identifies device settings to modify the end user device connects to the system APIs and interacts with the system APIs to gather information and or to apply the device settings as desired by the user. In a particular embodiment the system APIs may be defined in a Device Profile for Web Service DPWS format. Use of the DPWS format allows for provision of security features of web services.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a system that includes a network device having system APIs and a web server that provides a hosted web user interface to render network configuration data is shown. The system includes a representative end user computer device coupled to a display a web server and a network device . The network device is coupled to the web server via a computer network . The web server includes a hosted web user interface to render network configuration data to a user. The network device includes a network protocol interface system APIs hardware HW interfaces and computer readable memory . The computer readable memory includes device configuration settings . The network device is coupled to representative hardware devices such as a Wi Fi device an Ethernet device and a router . The network device provides for controlled access to system APIs via the remotely located web server over the network .

For end user devices that do not include network services applications to provide user interface support the web server may host a network services application and may provide the user with a network device user interface via a web browser. The web server connects to the system APIs on the network device to modify the device settings or to gather device information such as the device settings .

The system allows a user of the end user device to define and apply settings remotely and from any location having access to the network by providing remote access to the web server . The system thereby enables legacy operating systems to utilize network device hardware as well as to provide a level of functionality to platforms that do not have sufficient market penetration to justify the costs of a local customized network device configuration user interface. The web server including the hosted web user interface to render network configuration data may provide either open access to the end user device or controlled access using security mechanisms such as digital certificates user names and passwords or other security settings supported by web services functionality. The hosted user interface at the web server may be used to perform a variety of network management functions with respect to the network device including parental controls firmware updates firewall configuration or diagnostics of network elements such as Wi Fi device Ethernet device or router or of the network device .

In a particular embodiment a user of the end user device having access to the web server may be a person other than the owner of the network device . In this particular case the user may be granted access by the owner of the network device prior to the end user device receiving the display information of the user interface hosted at the web server . The user s access may be limited to selected portions of the hosted user interface or may be limited to selected functions of the hosted user interface . The end user device may be authenticated by use of a user name and password a session key or a digital certificate. In a particular embodiment the device settings include configuration data of the network device which may include an Internet Protocol address a network device identifier and one or more additional device settings. A combination of devices such as the web server the end user device and various network devices such as the illustrated network device that is accessible via the computer network may be used to provide integrated services where a particular service is exposed to a user via remotely hosted user interface and devices that are controlled in a collection to provide an integrated service offering. In addition the web server may provide multiple hosted web user interfaces of different network devices and or for multiple network device owners such that the web server may provide network device application services for multiple users and devices on an application server or subscription basis.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a method of hosting a user interface of a network device is disclosed. The method includes receiving a request at a server to display the user interface of the network device as shown at . The request may be received from an end user device. The method further includes authenticating the end user device to validate an identity of a user or of the end user device as shown at . The method further includes communicating display information of the user interface including device settings of the network device to the end user device for display and to permit monitoring or interacting with the network device by the user as shown at . The method further includes performing network management functions including parental controls firmware updates firewall configuration or other diagnostics of a network or of the network device as shown at .

The disclosed system and method provides a server based or personal computer based capability for remotely hosting a user interface to render network configuration data and or to control such network configuration data of one or more network devices coupled to a computer network. Thus with the disclosed system and method a user may remotely access collect monitor and or interact with network configuration data using an enhanced and flexible user interface capability.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits or steps have been described generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in computer readable media such as random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor or the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device or computer system.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosed embodiments. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope possible consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

