---

title: Sharing information between devices
abstract: A system configured for facilitating the sharing of information between apparatuses. An apparatus may include one or more applications that, for example, upon configuration and execution, may yield information that may also be stored in the apparatus. At some point a determination may be made that stored information is to be shared with other users. In order to enable the sharing of this information, global identification information may be assigned by, and obtained from, a remote resource. The global identification information may be used to modify identification information corresponding to the information to be shared so that other apparatuses may locate, and/or request access to, the shared information. Further, the other apparatuses may request transmission of shared information stored in the remote resource using the global identifier, or may receive shared information from the apparatus without explicitly requesting it.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185601&OS=08185601&RS=08185601
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08185601
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20080511
---
Various embodiments of the present invention relate to sharing resource information via wired and or wireless communication.

Modern society has adopted and is becoming reliant upon devices for wireless communication. For example cellular telephones continue to proliferate in the global marketplace due to technological improvements in both communication quality and device functionality. These wireless communication devices WCDs have become common for both personal and business use allowing users to transmit and receive voice text and graphical data from a multitude of geographic locations. The communication networks utilized by these devices span different frequencies and cover different transmission distances each having specific features desirable for various applications.

The desire for users to employ wireless apparatuses in many different settings continues to keep pace with new communication enhancements incorporated in these devices. Additional functionality such as for example messaging clients email instant messenger etc. business applications document readers scheduling programs interfaces to inventory management systems etc. location systems GPS mapping navigation etc. multimedia and entertainment applications as well as many more. These various applications may retrieve information via wired or wireless communication that in view of a user configuration may be required in order to perform the requested activity. The information needed during application execution may come from for example a remote source accessible via wireless communication.

While the above exemplary applications and any results outputted during their execution may only reside locally on an apparatus it is foreseeable that in some cases the results of these applications would not only be desirable to the initially requesting user but also to other consumers that are interested in the same information. Typical architectures utilized in storing information for public consumption usually central the shared materials or references to the shared materials in the form of for example a cross reference table. At least one problem with this exemplary configuration is that a great deal of resource overhead is created by maintaining a centrally located cross reference resource. The various burdens on the system may include for example the need for a large amount of storage space to house the cross reference information substantial processing to receive maintain and deliver the shared information to various consumers using the local references of target device high bandwidth access enabled to support a large amount of simultaneous connections both contributing and retrieving information etc.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to at least a method system device and computer program for sharing information. For example an apparatus may include at least one application that upon configuration and execution may yield one or more pieces of information that may also be stored in the apparatus. After a determination is made that stored information is to be shared with other users identification information may be assigned to each of the one or more pieces of information that is recognizable by the other users. The identification information may include at least global identification information assigned by and obtained from a remote resource. The global identification information may be used to modify the identification of the one or more pieces of information to be shared so that other apparatuses may locate and or request access to the shared information. Further the other apparatuses may request transmission of shared information stored in the remote resource using the global identifier or may receive shared information from the apparatus without explicitly requesting it.

In at least one embodiment of the present invention an inquiry may be made when an application is executed as to whether additional information is required to complete processing. The apparatus may obtain the additional information from the remote resource via wired or wireless communication. At least some of the additional information may be used for computing resultant information while some of the information may be for global identification.

The stored information may in accordance with various embodiments be assigned a local identifier usable by consumers within the apparatus. However a determination may further be made to share the stored information. This determination may be made for example based on a configuration in the apparatus or based on an automated decision made in view of automated decision criteria. Global identification information may then be requested from a remote resource for example via wireless communication. The remote resource may then assign particular global identification information to the shared information which is then forwarded to the apparatus. The apparatus may then modify the identification corresponding to the shared information based on the global identification information.

In at least one exemplary scenario other devices desiring to access the shared information may obtain global identification information from the apparatus or the remote resource. These other apparatuses may then request access to shared information stored on the apparatus using the global identification information or alternatively may request that shared information stored on the apparatus be sent to other apparatuses e.g. in one or more wireless messages . The apparatus may then respond by providing access to the shared information as requested. Further other apparatuses may receive unsolicited transmissions regarding shared information from the apparatus. The other apparatuses may identify the shared information as well as trace the information back to the source based on the global identification information.

While the present invention has been described in a variety of exemplary embodiments various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the appended claims.

Wireless communication devices WCD may transmit and receive information over a wide array of communication networks each with different advantages regarding speed range quality error correction security encoding etc. These characteristics may determine the amount of information that can be transferred to a receiving device and the duration of time for this information transfer. includes a diagram of an exemplary WCD and how it may interact with various types of wireless technologies.

In the example pictured in user possesses WCD . This device may be anything from a basic cellular handset to a more complex device such as a wirelessly enabled palmtop or laptop computer. Close proximity communications may include various transponder type interactions wherein normally only the scanning device requires its own power source. WCD scans source via short range communication. A transponder in source may utilize the energy and or clock signal contained within the scanning signal as in the case of RFID communication to respond with data stored in the transponder. These types of technologies usually have an effective transmission range on the order of ten feet. These features make such technologies well suited for identification purposes such as to receive an account number for a public transportation provider a key code for an automatic electronic door lock an account number for a credit or debit transaction etc.

The transmission range between two devices may be extended if both devices are capable of performing powered communication. Short range active communication includes applications wherein the sending and receiving devices are both active. An exemplary situation would include user coming within effective transmission range of a Bluetooth WLAN UWB WUSB etc. access point. In the case of Bluetooth a network may automatically be established to transmit information to WCD possessed by user . The amount of information to be conveyed is unlimited except that it must all be transferred in the time when user is within effective transmission range of the access point. Due to the higher complexity of these wireless networks additional time is also required to establish the initial connection to WCD which may be increased if many devices are queued for service in the area proximate to the access point.

Long range networks are used to provide virtually uninterrupted communication coverage for WCD . Land based radio stations or satellites are used to relay various communication transactions worldwide. While these systems are extremely functional the use of these systems is often charged on a per minute basis to user not including additional charges for data transfer e.g. wireless Internet access . Further the regulations covering these systems may cause additional overhead for both the users and providers making the use of these systems more cumbersome.

As previously described various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented utilizing a multitude of wired and or wireless communication technology. Therefore it is important to understand the communication tools available to user before exploring these exemplary embodiments. For example in the case of a cellular telephone or other handheld wireless devices the integrated data handling capabilities of the device play an important role in facilitating transactions between the transmitting and receiving devices.

Control module may regulate operation of the device. Inputs may be received from various other modules included within WCD . For example interference sensing module may use various techniques known in the art to sense sources of environmental interference within the effective transmission range of the wireless communication device. Control module may interpret these data inputs and in response may issue control commands to the other modules in WCD .

Communications module incorporates all of the communication aspects of WCD . As shown in communications module may include for example long range communications module short range communications module and close proximity communications module . Communications module may utilize one or more of these sub modules to receive a multitude of different types of communication from both local and long distance sources and to transmit data to recipient devices within the transmission range of WCD . Communications module may be triggered by control module or by control resources local to the module responding to sensed messages environmental influences and or other devices in proximity to WCD .

User interface module includes visual audible and tactile elements which allow the user to receive data from and enter data into the device. The data entered by user may be interpreted by control module to affect the behavior of WCD . User inputted data may also be transmitted by communications module to other devices within effective transmission range. Other devices in transmission range may also send information to WCD via communications module and control module may cause this information to be transferred to user interface module for presentment to the user.

Applications module incorporates all other hardware and or software applications on WCD . These applications may include sensors interfaces utilities interpreters data applications etc. and may be invoked by control module to read information provided by the various modules and in turn supply information to requesting modules in WCD .

Memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or flash memory and stores information in the form of data and software components also referred to herein as modules . The data stored by memory may be associated with particular software components. In addition this data may be associated with databases such as a bookmark database or a business database for scheduling email etc.

The software components stored by memory may include instructions that are executable by processor . Various types of software components may be stored in memory such as components modules that comprise the operating system of WCD that control the operation of communication sections and and that further enable at least the functionality described herein with respect to various embodiments of the present invention.

Long range communications performs functions related to the exchange of information over large geographic areas such as cellular networks via an antenna. In addition to basic voice communication e.g. via GSM long range communications may operate to establish data communication sessions such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS sessions and or Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS sessions. Also long range communications may operate to transmit and receive messages such as short messaging service SMS messages and or multimedia messaging service MMS messages. Various IP protocols may also be included in the long range communication network category.

As a subset of long range communications or alternatively operating as an independent module separately connected to processor transmission receiver allows WCD to receive transmission messages via mediums such as Digital Video Broadcast for Handheld Devices DVB H . These transmissions may be encoded so that only certain designated receiving devices may access the transmission content and may contain text audio or video information. In at least one example WCD may receive these transmissions and use information contained within the transmission signal to determine if the device is permitted to view the received content.

Short range communications is responsible for functions involving the exchange of information across short range wireless networks. As described above and depicted in examples of such short range communications are not limited to Bluetooth WLAN UWB and Wireless USB connections. Accordingly short range communications performs functions related to the establishment of short range connections as well as processing related to the transmission and reception of information via such connections.

Close proximity communications also depicted in may provide functionality related to the short range scanning of machine readable data. For example processor may control components in close proximity communications to generate RF signals for activating an RFID transponder and may in turn control the reception of signals from an RFID transponder. Other examples of technologies for scanning machine readable data that may be implemented in close proximity communications may include RFID functionality corresponding to Near field communication NFC IR communication linear and 2 D e.g. QR bar code readers including processes related to interpreting UPC labels and optical character recognition devices for reading magnetic UV conductive or other types of coded data that may be provided in a tag using suitable ink. In order for close proximity communications to scan various types of machine readable data the input device may include optical detectors magnetic detectors CCDs or other sensors known in the art for interpreting machine readable information.

As further shown in user interface is also coupled to processor . User interface facilitates the exchange of information with a user. shows that user interface includes a user input and a user output . User input may include one or more components that allow a user to input information. Examples of such components include keypads touch screens and microphones. User output allows a user to receive information from the device. Thus user output portion may include various components such as a display light emitting diodes LED tactile emitters and one or more audio speakers. Exemplary displays include liquid crystal displays LCDs and other video displays.

WCD may also include one or more transponders . This is essentially a passive device that may be programmed by processor with information to be delivered in response to a scan from an outside source. For example at least one RFID scanner or in a more specific scenario at least one RFID scanner configurable to communicate utilizing NFC may be mounted in an entryway may continuously emit radio frequency waves. When a person with a device containing transponder walks through the door the transponder is energized and may respond with information identifying the device the person etc. In addition a scanner may be mounted e.g. as discussed above with regard to examples of close proximity communications in WCD so that it can read information from other transponders in the vicinity.

In addition to the above resources already within WCD may be reconfigured or additional hardware and or software may be installed to support location position and or orientation related functionality. For example location direction may utilize software and or hardware such as sensors receivers antennas etc. configured to utilize technologies such as satellite based or terrestrial based e.g. cellular global positioning systems GPS electronic compasses orientation sensors acceleration sensors etc. These components may be utilized with programs that may for example create maps give directions determine position etc.

Hardware corresponding to communications sections and provide for the transmission and reception of signals. Accordingly these portions may include components e.g. electronics that perform functions such as modulation demodulation amplification and filtering. These portions may be locally controlled or controlled by processor in accordance with software communication components stored in memory .

The elements shown in may be constituted and coupled according to various techniques in order to produce the functionality described in . One such technique may link separate hardware components corresponding to processor communications sections and memory user interface transponder etc. together via one or more wired or wireless bus interfaces. Alternatively any and or all of the individual components may be replaced by an integrated circuit in the form of a programmable logic device gate array ASIC multi chip module etc. programmed to replicate the functions of the stand alone devices. In addition each of these components is coupled to a power source such as a removable and or rechargeable battery not shown .

The user interface may interact with a communication utilities software component also contained in memory which provides for the establishment of service sessions using long range communications and or short range communications . The communication utilities component may include various routines that allow the reception of services from remote devices according to mediums such as the Wireless Application Medium WAP Hypertext Markup Language HTML variants like Compact HTML CHTML etc.

An example scenario is shown in that will be utilized to explain various embodiments of the present invention. The practice of the various embodiments of the present invention are not strictly limited to the examples disclosed herein and may be implemented in a multitude of configurations. In particular various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with various wireless enabled apparatuses communicating using different wireless communication mediums. Disclosed devices and or mediums are for explanation purposes only.

Exemplary wireless apparatus disclosed in may include any and or all of the modules components functionality etc. described with respect to exemplary WCD . Wireless apparatus may participate in various interactions with remote resource . Remote resource in this example may include one or more networked computing resources e.g. computers file servers routers modems etc. having an Internet webpage interface that is accessible via a wired or wireless link. These access methods may include for example a long range wireless data connection e.g. cellular communication may be established directly with a service provider in order to access the Internet a short range connection established to an access point using a medium like Bluetooth WLAN etc. a wired link via Ethernet Firewire etc.

Other apparatuses may also access remote resource via the aforementioned examples of wired and or wireless connection. For example a computing device e.g. a laptop computer is shown accessing remote resource via a web browser. The web browser is configurable to display the Internet webpage interface of remote resource so that a user of apparatus can interact with various resources residing in remote resource . Both wireless apparatus and other apparatus may send information to as well as receive information from remote resource . In this example a website www.ovi.com has been used to represent remote resource . This website created and supported by Nokia is a central repository via which users can share information pictures multimedia etc. or obtain information e.g. maps music games etc. that may be stored or formulated according to user configuration. While this particular website has been used for the sake of example in explaining the various embodiments of the present invention the invention is not specifically limited to the disclosed implementation.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention now discloses examples of functional configurations that may be utilized in apparatus remote resource and other apparatus . Apparatus may include elements implemented in software and or hardware form including both discrete component formats and configurations where one or more functions elements may be including in one device e.g. ASIC chipset etc . Map application MA is an example of an user configurable software interface for obtaining location and or map information from or for providing similar information to remote resource e.g. www.ovi.com . For example users may request information e.g. directions estimated time traffic conditions etc. pertaining to a desired travel route by configuring a request using MA . An exemplary request configuration may include a user setting parameters in a software interface in order to obtain a desired output. MA may then access map operating services application programming interface MOS API to compute maps location direction or other related informational tasks. While various embodiments of the present invention are discussed herein in terms of exemplary map and or location applications this particular usage has been selected for the sake of explanation only and is not intended to be limiting the disclosed embodiments to only being applied in this manner.

After a request has been configured by a user MA may utilize resources in apparatus to access internal information and or may request information from an external source in order to formulate a response to the request. The output information formulated in response to user configuration of MA may in some instances be beneficial or desirable to other users of remote resource . In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention information may be shared using synchronization elements in apparatus .

Synchronization interface may provide access to applications residing on apparatus e.g. MOS API for sending information to or receiving information from the exemplary synchronization architecture disclosed in . As part of this functionality synchronization interface may interact with synchronization elements supporting specific operations like information storage and communication. For example shared data storage and database may incorporate software and or hardware components usable for the storage of information used in a data sharing process in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. Database DB may contain for example search index data and or actual stored information that is being made available to shared with other users of remote resource . Synchronization communication may further provide access via messaging for the transmission and reception of synchronization requests commands and other information related to the synchronization system such as information regarding data that is being shared.

Remote resource may include exemplary elements configured to support synchronization messaging web browser access over an Internet connection and sharing information amongst the users of remote resource via wired and or wireless communication. Initially connection to remote resource may be controlled via authentication . This module may verify identification and or security information for apparatuses users applications etc. that attempt to connect to or request information from remote resource . Authentication may for example verify the identity of entities connecting to synchronization server via server synchronization or from other apparatus connecting to web server using for example web browser . Web server aside from granting general access to remote resource may allow web browser to connect to search server . Web server and Search server may for example utilize content access to make search inquiries with data manager in synchronization server regarding shared information. For example web browser may directly access shared information via web server while search server may provide the ability to search for shared information in accordance with search parameters set in web browser .

Data manager may also be accessed via server synchronization . This direct access may allow for synchronization of information in DB and DB e.g. via shared data storage interface . Synchronization may ensure that data manager has the most recent information regarding resources being shared by apparatuses enabled to access remote resource e.g. apparatus . Data stored in these apparatuses e.g. apparatus may also be accessed by querying global identifier information maintained in remote resource e.g. in DB and or data manager . For example search server may query data manager e.g. via content access in order to determine what information is available on remote resource as well as on apparatuses enabled to access remote resource e.g. apparatus . When desired information is located remote resource may respond with the desired information global identifier information etc. to the searching entity e.g. other apparatus . The global identifier information may allow the inquiring apparatus to access the desired information at the source request the transmission of the information etc. In various embodiments of the present invention global identification information may include at least a global identifier for identifying objects within an environment. For example when there are one or more servers in remote resource or in one or more environments of remote resource a global identifier may uniquely identify objects within each environment. Global identification information may also be allocated by a separately administered entity that operates on higher level than remote resource . The global identifier may also be assigned within a server in a format that may enable other devices to identify the server that assigned the global identifier.

While all of the components discussed above with respect to remote resource have been shown as existing as a consolidated entity it should be noted that in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention Authentication Web server Search Server etc. may each be configured as entities separate from Remote resource . In such configuration wired wireless communication connections may link any standalone components.

The user may then decide to upload or synchronize the objects for network storage in step e.g. to a personal account in a remote resource like ovi.com . Remote resource may generate global identification information at and then acknowledge the reception of data with a response message including the global identification information at . The global identification information may then be utilized by apparatus to modify the local identification of the data at so that it may be accessed from either local or remote storage.

As a part of normal operation apparatus may issue a synchronization request to remote resource in order to synchronize the contents of DB and DB . The request may be initiated for example by the device user using a specific action at certain intervals at certain times of day week month based on device location etc. The initiation may also be triggered from remote resource when for example new information has been stored e.g. in the ovi.com account associated with the user . Users may also access objects stored in ovi.com using for example a web interface in order to make modifications to the stored data and thus cause the synchronization of the objects with the objects stored on apparatus . New objects may also be created using the web interface the creation of which may trigger a synchronization to occur between DB and DB making the new objects also available on apparatus .

Stored objects may also be extended with application specific data. For example images and music files may be associated with location objects. In at least one scenario when apparatus arrives at a predetermined location e.g. acquired via GPS an associated image may be displayed and or music played in the device. This may also enable the association of other application data such as calendar note document message data etc. For example when arriving at a local department store a user may be notified of a shopping list stored either by the user or if shared by other users of remote resource that comprises user recommendations for shopping items. Further other application specific data may also be synchronized when a primary data object is synchronized or a linking identifier may be stored with the object enabling apparatus to associate the application specific data with the data object.

In addition the exemplary system described above may in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention support other services such as small applications executing on top of MOS API . Examples of such small applications may include programs for storing bookmarks e.g. favorites for storing maplet service related objects wherein a maplet may be for example a small program specifically related to map direction or location related functionality for synchronizing data on apparatus with maplet specific service etc.

The further examples disclosed in now include other apparatus in addition to apparatus e.g. a device including some or all of the functionality of WCD remote resource . Initially in a web integrated service is activated in apparatus at . While a web integrated service is utilized in for the sake of explanation the various embodiments of the present invention do not require use of this particular type of application and may instead be a software application executing in apparatus without outside interaction.

After the application is activated activity in apparatus may result in the formulation of a data request to remote resource at . For example a user may configure the application to formulate information on a desired topic and in order to fulfill this request some or all of this desired information may be requested from remote resource . At apparatus may send a data request to remote resource . The data request may trigger the accessing of databases in remote resource computation etc. in order to produce the requested data which is then sent back to apparatus for eventual presentation to the user. The information sent by remote resource may also include global identifier information.

A user may then decide to share some or all of the information resulting from the requested execution of the web integrated service application at . When being used internally to an apparatus information need only be identified by a local identifier. A local identifier may be an identifier known only to apparatus and therefore is not recognized by other apparatuses. However as set forth above remote resource may provide global identifier information with the information returned to apparatus . Apparatus may then modify identification information corresponding to the information to be shared based on the global identifier information. Identification information for the shared information may be modified for example by replacing local identification information with global identification information appending global identification information to local identification information cross referencing the local identification information to global identification information in apparatus etc.

Other apparatus e.g. another device including computing capabilities such as a laptop computer coupled to the Internet via wired or wireless communication may desire to access previously created information at . Shared information may be attractive to a user due to for example the desire to obtain previously unknown information speed time and processing savings in avoiding reformulation of the same information descriptive material corresponding to the material etc. In terms of the previous exemplary scenario a user review of a mapped route may reside in remote resource along with related global identifier information. This review may state for example that shared information pertains to a route for a trip that was extremely enjoyable. As a result other users may want to access this information from apparatus .

Access to the previously created information may be requested in the transaction of . For example other apparatus may transmit a wireless message requesting access to apparatus . This request may include for example identification information confirming that other apparatus user application etc. is allowed to access shared information. Apparatus may then respond by granting access to other apparatus sending the shared information e.g. via wireless communication etc. The above transaction may assume that other apparatus is aware of the global identification information corresponding to the desired information. Messages in may be sent using for example communication mediums such as SMS MMS email instant messaging Bluetooth wireless LAN short range radio Internet Protocol IP etc.

Now referring to another exemplary transaction in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention is disclosed. In this example an application on apparatus may execute at e.g. as configured by a user resulting in data that is stored on apparatus at . In a situation where the information to be shared is not retrieved from remote resource and in such case has not already received global identification information apparatus may make a request for corresponding global identification information at . The information provided by apparatus at may both notify remote resource of the existence of information to be shared e.g. along with data that may be used for identifying and locating shared information and may prompt assignment of global identification information that is returned to apparatus for use in modifying the identification of shared information.

The actions shown at may be executed in preparation for sharing information with other users of remote resource . Initially resultant data to be shared on apparatus and or descriptive information pertaining to the resultant data to be shared may be transmitted to remote resource along with the corresponding global identification information. Then if not already established apparatus may inform remote resource that the resultant data on apparatus is now available for sharing. At another device e.g. other apparatus may decide that access to previously created shared information is desired. At an inquiry may be made to remote resource . This inquiry may be a direct request for information using global identification information that is already known to other apparatus or its user or alternatively may be the result of searching performed by other apparatus e.g. through the use of search server in remote resource of shared information available to devices enabled and possibly permitted to interact with remote resource . In configurations where data may be centrally distributed through remote resource at least one embodiment of the present invention may optionally include a request for updates of shared data from its origin before delivering the shared data to the requesting apparatus e.g. other apparatus . If this optional feature is included apparatus may provide updates of the requested shared data to remote resource which may then pass the updated information on to other apparatus .

Various exemplary embodiments of the present invention may also employ a data delivery architecture such as disclosed in . Steps may utilize the methodology set forth in the corresponding steps in either or D depending on for example the specific requirements of the implementation. This example is disclosed using the methodology of . In this implementation remote resource may establish a data collection at including the global identification of shared information stored on apparatus . The data collection may comprise one or more objects. Other apparatus may access the data collection at . This access may be in the form of a query that returns the identification of shared information that may be of use to a user application or other apparatus itself. Information that is available on remote resource may be accessed directly. In the case of shared information residing on apparatus other apparatus may request access to this information at to which apparatus may grant access if appropriate e.g. providing that identification authentication of device user and or applications corresponding to other apparatus are successful . Granting access may include for example allowing other apparatus to retrieve shared information from apparatus sending the shared information from apparatus to other apparatus e.g. in the form of one or more wireless messages making the information available in remote resource etc.

Now referring to a flowchart of an exemplary process in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention is now disclosed. In step an application may be activated on an apparatus. A user may configure this application e.g. by configuring one or more parameters in a user interface in step so as to generate a desired result e.g. formulate directional information obtain information on a particular subject etc. In step a determination may be made as to whether additional information from outside of the apparatus will be required in order to complete processing in the configured application. If no additional information is required then in step the process may proceed to formulate the desired information e.g. and display the information to a user store and or print the information etc. 

However if information from outside of the apparatus e.g. information obtained from a remote resource is required in order to produce resulting information in accordance with the user configuration then in step the establishment of a wired or wireless connection may be attempted. The wired or wireless connection may be undertaken in various communication transports including any of the exemplary communication transports discussed herein. If the connection is successful in step then the process may obtain the required information from the remote resource in step including at least the information needed for the application and corresponding global identification information. The computing may then complete in step . However if a link to the source of the additional information cannot be established in step then further attempts may be made in step until for example a connection establishment retry threshold has been exceeded. In this case a communication error may then be displayed on the apparatus and the process may return to initial step to await another activation attempt.

Given the successful formulation of results in step in accordance with the user configuration of step a decision may further be made whether to share the resulting information in step . If it is decided that the information should not be shared then the information may be retained only for local use in step . The exemplary process may then continue with a new application configuration in step or alternatively if no further interaction with the activated application is necessary then in step the process may complete and return to step in order to await another requirement for application activation.

However if it is determined that the information should be shared in step then in step connection establishment may be attempted to a remote resource e.g. the same or a different remote resource than previously discussed with respect to step . If a link cannot be established and the connection establishment retry limit has been exceeded per step then the process may return to step wherein the apparatus may continue to function in a standalone mode e.g. using the information only on a local basis . A user may subsequently terminate the process in step as previously described and then restart the entire process at step in order to reattempt configuration and sharing of information with other users.

If a connection is successfully established in step then in step the apparatus may execute or more activities to initiate sharing and or configure shared data. For example the apparatus may notify the remote resource via wired or wireless communication that shared information is now available on the apparatus. Further the apparatus may provide updated information to the remote resource including updates to the actual shared information itself or updates to related descriptive information. In at least one embodiment of the present invention the remote resource may provide instructions for modifying identification information corresponding to the shared information based on relevant global identification information. As previously described this modification may comprise replacing local identification information with global identification information appending global identification information to local identification information cross referencing global identification information to local identification information in the apparatus or other modifications that may be implemented in order to make shared data in the apparatus identifiable and or accessible to other apparatuses. The process may then return to step to await reactivation of an application on the apparatus.

The present invention has been discussed in this disclosure in terms of a number of exemplary embodiments. One or more of these generalized embodiments may be applied to real life situations. One example may include a scenario wherein a user uploads information to a remote resource e.g. data that is stored in a synchronization database on the server side . The information may be uploaded using for example SMS MMS email instant messaging etc. As a result a constant connection is not required between the apparatus and the remote resource.

For example a user may take photographs with a digital camera or another device including an embedded camera. The photographed images may then be sent to a remote resource e.g. a service via wired or wireless communication where the images may be saved in a database on a server. The user may also associate location information with the images as well. Since the user could send the images using for example an MMS or email transport a constant online connection between the remote resource and the user s device would not be needed. The uploaded information may later be synchronized between the user s device and the remote resource to ensure that applications on the device and the remote resource utilize the same data.

In at least one embodiment of the present invention the start of synchronization may be initiated by the user s device or by the remote resource. For example when the user s device gains access to an available wireless LAN connection it may initiate synchronization with the remote resource. Similarly the remote resource could initiate the synchronization to the user s device when it receives new data items. This may occur for instance when users change information that is being shared e.g. a shared map including user updatable information the server may initiate synchronization to apparatuses of users who have not yet received the update.

In another exemplary scenario a user accessing a map application on a mobile device or via a web service may save previous inquiry results e.g. including information regarding points of interest mapped routes etc. When saving information regarding a recently visited destination it is foreseeable that an address and or an image may be associated with the physical location. The user may then synchronize the points of interest data saved on the device to a remote resource e.g. online service which may then make this information also available via web access. Alternatively or in conjunction with the above a user may mark routes paths traveled etc. and then synchronize this information with the online service. The online service may then assign global identification information for any such stored data using the various methods described herein.

In the event that a user wants to share synchronized points of interest routes etc. links to the remote resource may be sent to other users who may then access this information. Alternatively or in conjunction with the above a user may share the information via the online service directly for example by making the added points of interest addresses routes etc. accessible to other users registered with the web service. Users may also choose to share make visible accessible etc. information with only some users or all users of the online service.

Other users accessing shared information may for example save the shared data locally to their devices online accounts etc. which may be later accessed to use the information. In at least one exemplary configuration of the present invention users may refer to locally saved shared information e.g. point of interest address route information etc. using familiar names and therefore may not necessarily use the global identification information reserved by the system. For example when sharing a home address location with a visiting friend an online service may display My home in the user s account. The friend could view the shared information provided by for example a link in the online service to a map displaying the physical location or may save this information to their own account in the online service. In such a scenario shared location information could be saved as My friend s place. While the user assigned alias may create the illusion that the shared information is locally stored the system may continue to utilize the global identification information when referencing this information which may help to conserve storage resources by not having to actually create a local copy of the information. Further if a user wants to delete a location and the corresponding global identification information the remote resource may indicate that other users are utilizing this shared information and then confirm the deletion. Alternatively a device account may delete only the local link to the shared information so that other users may still access this information.

Examples of shared information may include but are not limited to location information point of interest information address information route information etc. Users may formulate this information using for example an application that directly links to a mobile resource via wired and or wireless communication accessing a webpage corresponding to the remote resource using a web browser etc. Exemplary application or webpage based service interfaces may allow users to inter alia search compile mark save and then share information. In addition various embodiments of the present invention may allow users to access shared information that was previously created by friends or other users of the remote resource service via applications on mobile devices Internet connections etc. For example a user may search for locations of interest or find a particular restaurant reviewed by familiar or known users search for restaurants places near a given location which might be marked by the other service users. The user may then save these locations so that they are accessible e.g. visible to other users in for example an application executed on an apparatus via an online account etc.

Further to the above other categories of sharable information may include for example images video music web links documents etc. Users may also create montages or collections of various types of sharable information that may be related to a particular subject event etc. For example users may name a group of items with an identifier My holiday. My Holiday may include travel paths and locations the user visited on holiday e.g. obtained from routes stored by the GPS of the mobile device manually marked routes and points of interest by the user etc. and also associated images taken with a device or standalone camera that were uploaded or synchronized with a remote resource. The user may also save for example notes or reviews associated with a points of interest that would also be accessible as part of My holiday in the remote resource. The various exemplary embodiments of the present invention disclosed herein may enable the user to share all this information either directly with other users via their devices e.g. using an application executed on the device via an Internet browser etc.

Accordingly it will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in forma and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

