---

title: System and method for dynamic search result formatting
abstract: An online search result formatting system and method. The system receives the results of an online search conducted by a user. A view assignment module selects a view template from a plurality of predefined view templates. A content templating module formats the results per the chosen template. An image request system obtains an image representing each search result from the image generation, delivery, and management system. A content population module prepares the content with the results and images in accordance with the selected view template for ultimate display in the user's graphical user interface. The user may select from among the plurality of predefined view templates to alter the display accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635528&OS=08635528&RS=08635528
owner: Nexplore Technologies, Inc.
number: 08635528
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 265 804 which was filed on Nov. 6 2008.

The present invention relates to web search services and more specifically to dynamic search result formatting systems.

Traditional search engines format search results to render them to a user. This search result rendering is typically static and non customizable thereby limiting a user s online experience. The present invention achieves technical advantages by utilizing interactive icons to allow a user to select how search results are displayed according to a view template thereby providing the user a custom search experience. The view selected changes the text format along with the web browser focus of viewing the website images vs the text on the site and dynamically generates HTML image tags where the attributes of the image tag are determined by the view. The source attribute of the image tag is dynamically populated with an image request URL customized by the view template.

The present invention provides a method system and computer software for dynamically formatting search results in a networked environment. A networked application accesses a computing device that performs the novel method steps.

The system accepts results of a network search performed by a user. A view template is then selected by the system from a plurality of pre defined view templates. An image tag is then generated for each search result with the tag containing certain attributes as required by the selected view template. The system then generates an image request URL for each search result with the request based upon the view template requirements and receives an image for each request. The results and received images are then formatted in accordance with the view template and the content is generated for display in the user s graphical user interface GUI .

The system also provides additional functionality. When the user performs a mouse over of a given result a pop up image presents a preview of the particular result s link. Further the user has the option of selecting a different view such as the summary view gallery view and line view in order to change the display format.

The above figures are provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended to define the limits of the disclosed invention. Use of the same reference number in multiple figures is intended to designate the same or similar parts. Furthermore if and when the terms top bottom first second upper lower height width length end side horizontal vertical and similar terms are used herein it should be understood that these terms have reference only to the structure shown in the drawing and are utilized only to facilitate describing the particular embodiment. The extension of the figures with respect to number position relationship and dimensions of the parts to form the preferred embodiment will be explained or will be within the skill of the art after the following teachings of the present invention have been read and understood.

In the following discussion numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known elements have been illustrated in schematic or block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. Additionally for the most part details concerning the Internet digital content and the like have been omitted inasmuch as such details are not considered necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention and are considered to be within the skills of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

Referring to there is shown a diagram of a dynamic search result formatting system for dynamically formatting search results and content received over a network in accordance with principles of the present invention. The system is part of an application adapted to provide search results associated with a search term. The system is preferably implemented in hardware software or a suitable combination of hardware and software thereof and may comprise one or more software systems operating on a digital signal processing platform or other suitable processing platforms.

As used herein hardware can include a combination of discrete components an integrated circuit a microprocessor a controller a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an electronic data processor a computer a field programmable gate array or other suitable hardware connectable for interfacing with a network such as the Internet considered to be well known in the art.

As used herein software can include one or more objects agents threads lines of code subroutines separate software applications two or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in two or more software applications or on two or more processors or other suitable hardware structures. Furthermore it is considered that the design development and implementation details of all such hardware and software would be apparent to a person having ordinary skill in the art based upon a review of the present description of the invention. In one embodiment software can include one or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in a general purpose software application such as an operating system and one or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in a specific purpose software application.

The system is operably coupled to web browser image generation delivery and management system and a web search service by network . The network can be a WAN MAN LAN PAN or other suitable network configuration. The system is adapted to receive a plurality of search results from web search service via network .

The system instantiates one of a plurality of predefined templates generates customized image requests and populates one of a plurality of predefined templates. The application can be resident on a computer a website blog forum aggregator or other suitable web enabled application. The system in this embodiment also includes a view assignment module a content templating module an image request module and a content population module .

The view assignment module is adapted to set a view for rendering content associated with the search term in the web browser . In one embodiment content can be digital images text music video and other suitable digital content. The view assignment module can be achieved with an application programming interface API a network connection a network transfer protocol HTML DHTML JavaScript Dojo Ruby Rails other suitable applications or a suitable combination thereof.

The view assignment module sets the view by assigning a value associated with one of the views to a view variable. The view assignment module determines which view value to assign to the view variable according to a predetermined default view value or a user defined view value. The default view value is assigned to the view variable unless a user selects a different view. At that point the user defined view value associated with the user selected view is assigned to the view variable. In a second embodiment the user can select an icon associated with a view shown in the web browser to assign the user defined view value to the view variable. In a third embodiment the user can create an account associated with the application and select the view to associate with the account in account settings. When the user logs into the application the user defined view value associated with the account is assigned to the view variable. The user can select the icon associated with another view in the web browser to change the view even when logged in.

The content templating module is adapted to format content according to a predetermined template for rendering in the web browser . Each view has a predefined template that determines location orientation size length color and other suitable parameters. In one embodiment one of a plurality of predefined templates is applied to the content according to the view value of the view variable. The content templating module can be achieved with an application programming interface API a network connection a network transfer protocol HTML DHTML JavaScript Dojo Ruby Rails other suitable applications or a suitable combination thereof.

The content templating module applies a template to content to present at least three views to the user a summary view a line view and a gallery view. The summary view presents an image having a first size determined by the summary view template of a webpage associated with the URL of a search result next to the title of the search result webpage the first two lines of text of the search result webpage and the search result URL. Each search result is highlighted as it is moused over. In one embodiment the image is generated by the image generation delivery and management system .

The line view presents a single line of text for each search result. The line of text includes the title of the search result webpage and the first line of text of the search result webpage. On mouse over each search result is highlighted and an image having a second size determined by the line view template is displayed. In one embodiment the image is generated by the image generation delivery and management system .

The gallery view presents an image having a third size determined by the gallery view template of a webpage associated with the URL of a search result under the title of the search result webpage and over the search result URL. In one embodiment the image is generated by the image generation delivery and management system .

The image request module generates an image request URL for retrieving the image associated with the URL of a search result. Once the system receives search results from the web search service the content templating module generates a template customized HTML image tag IMG and inserts it into the template in the appropriate location. The IMG contains the height and width attributes of the image size appropriate for the view. The source attribute SRC of the IMG tag is populated with a base image request URL pointing to the image generation delivery and management system . The image request module generates a full image request URL by appending a requested width taken from the width attribute and a requested height taken from the height attribute and the search result URL to the base image request URL. The image request module can be achieved with an application programming interface API a network connection a network transfer protocol. HTML DHTML JavaScript Dojo Ruby Rails other suitable applications or a suitable combination thereof.

The content population module generates the code required to display each search result and image associated with the URL of each search result. The content population module loops through each search result to be displayed to populate the template with the content specific to each search result. Each search result is processed and parsed. The title meta data and text is formatted according to the template and inserted into the appropriate locations for each view by the content population module . The template customized content rendering is left to the web browser . The content population module can be achieved with an application programming interface API a network connection a network transfer protocol HTML DHTML JavaScript Dojo Ruby Rails other suitable applications or a suitable combination thereof.

Referring now to there is shown a flow chart exemplifying control logic embodying features of a method for dynamically formatting search results in accordance with principles of the present invention. The search result formatting control logic can be implemented as an algorithm on a general purpose computing platform or other suitable microprocessor based system.

The search result formatting control logic can leverage the ability of a computer platform to spawn multiple processes and threads by processing data simultaneously. The speed and efficiency of the search result formatting control logic is greatly improved by instantiating more than one process to format images and text associated with a search result. However one skilled in the art of programming will appreciate that use of a single processing thread may also be utilized and is within the scope of the present invention.

The search result formatting control logic process flow of the present embodiment begins at step where search results are received from web search service . The logic then proceeds to .

At step it is determined whether the user is logged into the application. If the user is logged in the logic proceeds to step . If the user is not logged in the logic proceeds to step .

At step the view variable is set to the default view value. In one embodiment the default view is the summary view which has a value of SUM . In a second embodiment the default view is the line view which has a value of LIN . In a third embodiment the default view is the gallery view which has a value of GAL . The logic then proceeds to .

At step the method determines which user selected view is to be used to display content associated with the search results. In one embodiment the user selected one of a plurality of views to display content associated with the search results. The logic then proceeds to .

At step the view variable is set to the user selected view value. In one embodiment the user selected view is the summary view which has a value of SUM . In a second embodiment the user selected view is the line view which has a value of LIN . In a third embodiment the user selected view is the gallery view which has a value of GAL . The logic then proceeds to .

At step it is determined whether the view to be displayed in the web browser is the summary view the line view or the gallery view. If the view to be displayed is the summary view the logic proceeds to step . If the view to be displayed is the line view the logic proceeds to step . If the view to be displayed is the gallery view the logic proceeds to step .

At step a summary view template is loaded. In one embodiment the summary view template includes a first image having a first size determined by the summary view template of a webpage associated with the URL of a search result the title of the search result webpage two lines of text from the search result webpage and the URL of the search result webpage. The search result is highlighted as the user mouses over the search result. The logic then proceeds to .

At step a summary view image request URL is generated. In one embodiment the source attribute SRC of the IMG tag is populated with a base image request URL pointing to the image generation delivery and management system . The image request module generates a full image request URL by appending a requested width taken from the width attribute and a requested height taken from the height attribute and the search result URL to the base image request URL. In a second embodiment ampersands are inserted between items appended to the base URL. In a third embodiment the full URL is similar to http img.nexplore.com image retrieve w 140 h 175 url http 3A 2F 2Fwww.nexplore.com 2Fsearch.html 2F. The logic then proceeds to .

At step the summary view template is populated with content associated with the search results. In one embodiment the summary view template computer code loops through each search result to be displayed to populate the summary view template with the content specific to each search result. Each search result is processed and parsed. In a second exemplary embodiment the title meta data and text of a search result is formatted according to the summary view template and inserted into the appropriate location. The logic then proceeds to .

At step a line view template is loaded. In one embodiment the line view template includes a single line of text for each search result containing the title of the search result webpage and the first line of text of the search result webpage. On mouse over each search result is highlighted and a second image having a second size determined by the line view template is displayed in a pop up window. The logic then proceeds to .

At step a line view image request URL is generated. In one embodiment the source attribute SRC of the IMG tag is populated with a base image request URL pointing to the image generation delivery and management system . The image request module generates a full image request URL by appending a requested width taken from the width attribute and a requested height taken from the height attribute and the search result URL to the base image request URL. In a second embodiment an ampersand is inserted between items appended to the base URL. In a third embodiment the full URL is similar to http img.nexplore.com image retrieve w 140 h 175 url http 3A 2F 2Fwww.nexplore.com 2Fsearch.html 2F. The logic then proceeds to .

At step the line view template is populated with content associated with the search results. In one embodiment the line view template computer code loops through each search result to be displayed to populate the line view template with the content specific to each search result. Each search result is processed and parsed. In a second exemplary embodiment the title meta data and text of a search result is formatted according to the line view template and inserted into the appropriate location. The logic then proceeds to .

At step a gallery view template is loaded. In one embodiment the gallery view template includes an image having a third size determined by the gallery view template of a webpage associated with the URL of a search result under the title of the search result webpage and over the search result URL. The logic then proceeds to .

At step a gallery view image request URL is generated. In one embodiment the source attribute SRC of the IMG tag is populated with a base image request URL pointing to the image generation delivery and management system . The image request module generates a full image request URL by appending a requested width taken from the width attribute and a requested height taken from the height attribute and the search result URL to the base image request URL. In a second embodiment an ampersand is inserted between items appended to the base URL. In a third embodiment the full URL is similar to http img.nexplore.com image retrieve w 140 h 175 url http 3A 2F 2Fwww.nexplore.com 2Fsearch.html 2F. The logic then proceeds to .

At step the gallery view template is populated with content associated with the search results. In one embodiment the gallery view template computer code loops through each search result to be displayed to populate the gallery view template with the content specific to each search result. Each search result is processed and parsed. In a second exemplary embodiment the title meta data and text of a search result is formatted according to the gallery view template and inserted into the appropriate location. The logic then proceeds to .

At step it is determined whether the user has changed the view. In one embodiment the user can select the icon associated with another view in the web browser to change the view even when logged in. If the view is changed the logic proceeds to step . If the view is not changed the logic proceeds to step .

Referring now to there is shown a flow chart exemplifying control logic embodying features of a method for requesting images in accordance with principles of the present invention. The image request control logic can be implemented as an algorithm on a general purpose computing platform or other suitable microprocessor based system.

The image request control logic process flow of the present embodiment begins at step where an HTML IMG is generated. In one embodiment the IMG is determined by the view. The logic then proceeds to step .

At step the source attribute SRC of the IMG tag is populated with a base image request URL pointing to the image generation delivery and management system . The logic then proceeds to step .

At step the base image request URL is appended with a requested image width taken from the width attribute. In one embodiment the requested image width is determined by the view. Each view can have a different image width. The logic then proceeds to step .

At step the base image request URL is appended with a requested image height taken from the height attribute. In one embodiment the requested image height is determined by the view. Each view can have a different image width. The logic then proceeds to step .

At step the base image request URL is appended with the search result URL. In one embodiment a full URL is similar to http img.nexplore.com image140 h 175 url http 3A 2F 2Fwww.nexplore.com 2Fsearch.html 2F.

Referring now to there is shown at a screen shot of a web browser rendering search results in a summary view in accordance with principles of the present invention. The summary view includes a first image having a first size determined by the summary view template of a webpage associated with the URL of a search result the title of the search result webpage two lines of text from the search result webpage and the URL of the search result webpage. The search result is highlighted as the user mouses over the search result.

Referring now to there is shown at a screen shot of a web browser rendering search results in a gallery view in accordance with principles of the present invention. The gallery view includes a third image having a third size determined by the gallery view template of a webpage associated with the URL of a search result under the title of the search result webpage and over the search result URL .

Referring now to there is shown at a screen shot of a web browser rendering search results in a line view in accordance with principles of the present invention. The line view includes a single line of text for each search result containing the title of the webpage associated with the search result and the first line of text of the search result webpage. The webpage title is displayed in one color and font while the first line of text is displayed in a second color and font. On mouse over each search result is highlighted and a second image having a second size determined by the line view template is displayed in a pop up window. In one embodiment a search result is highlighted and a second image having a second size determined by the line view template is displayed in a pop up window on mouse over of an area of the web browser containing the search result.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly the scope of the invention is established by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein. Further the recitation of method steps does not denote a particular sequence for execution of the steps. Such method steps may therefore be performed in a sequence other than that recited unless the particular claim expressly states otherwise.

