---

title: Method, apparatus and computer program product for enabling dual mode communication
abstract: An apparatus for enabling dual mode communication may include a processor. The processor may be configured to receive property information from a provider node, provide the property information to a delivery context client interface based context model, and enable access, by a consumer application, to the property via the delivery context client interface based context model to enable provision of consumer data to the property to enable adaptive or customized services to the consumer application via the property. A corresponding method and computer program product are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010669&OS=08010669&RS=08010669
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08010669
owner_city: 
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20081015
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to communication interface technology and more particularly relate to a method apparatus and computer program product for enabling dual mode communication for example via delivery context client interface DCCI models.

The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Computer networks television networks and telephony networks are experiencing an unprecedented technological expansion fueled by consumer demand. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer.

Current and future networking technologies continue to facilitate ease of information transfer and convenience to users. One area in which there is a demand to increase ease of information transfer relates to the delivery of services to a user of a mobile terminal. The services may be in the form of a particular media or communication application desired by the user such as a music player a game player an electronic book short messages email content sharing etc. The services may also be in the form of interactive applications in which the user may respond to a network device in order to perform a task or achieve a goal. The services may be provided from a network server or other network device or even from the mobile terminal such as for example a mobile telephone a mobile television a mobile gaming system etc.

In some situations it may be desirable for an application e.g. a web based application to have the ability to access information or objects from a device providing information to the application. For example context data including device data related to capabilities current operating state and or other device data that may be static and or dynamic may be useful information for the application to access. In this regard context data may be associated with content stored on a device in order to provide information which might assist in identifying data of interest. Context data is data that characterizes a particular situation at any point in time and may be either static or dynamic. Metadata is another form of information which may be associated with content to assist in ordering and identifying the content. Metadata may be considered to be data that provides additional data about data and is generally thought of as being static. When media content is recorded or an application inquires about situational characteristics related to an object the context data associated with the content or object may be referenced. The context data may be used by applications for different purposes such as generating metadata or performing an adaptation based on the context. When used for adaptation purposes no context is typically stored but is instead used dynamically.

Delivery Context Client Interface DCCI is a mechanism through which applications can access device data such as delivery context information using for example a Document Object Model DOM like interface. As such DCCI may act as a consumer interface for web applications consumers and providers of data to a tree like interface. Providers of data can be any static or dynamic sources providing information such as device location device orientation screen brightness battery strength and many others.

Although DCCI may be useful in providing information to applications about device status DCCI may currently only be considered a consumer interface. As such applications e.g. consumers may typically only read data that is provided by providers and thus the applications themselves do not provide information to the information providers. In other words DCCI is typically characterized by a one way flow of information from devices acting as information providers to the web applications acting as consumers. Additionally DCCI currently uses a fixed set of interfaces and thus may not support remote properties but only in device properties.

Accordingly it may be desirable to provide a framework for overcoming at least some of the disadvantages discussed above.

A method apparatus and computer program product are therefore provided for enabling dual mode communication. In this regard a method apparatus and computer program product are provided that may enable an extension of the interfaces available for various properties. As such for example embodiments of the present invention may provide a model via which properties can extend the standard DCCI set of interfaces through a standardized application programming interface API set. Accordingly for example both in device and remote properties may be supported.

In one exemplary embodiment a method of enabling a dual mode communication interface is provided. The method may include receiving property information from a provider node providing the property information to a delivery context client interface DCCI based context model and enabling access by a consumer application to the property via the DCCI based context model to enable possible provision of consumer data to the property to enable adaptive or customized services to the consumer application via the property.

In another exemplary embodiment a computer program product for enabling a dual mode communication interface is provided. The computer program product includes at least one computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code instructions stored therein. The computer executable program code instructions may include program code instructions for receiving property information from a provider node providing the property information to a DCCI based context model and enabling access by a consumer application to the property via the DCCI based context model to enable possible provision of consumer data to the property to enable adaptive or customized services to the consumer application via the property.

In another exemplary embodiment an apparatus for enabling a dual mode communication interface is provided. The apparatus may include a processor. The processor may be configured to receive property information from a provider node provide the property information to a DCCI based context model and enable access by a consumer application to the property via the DCCI based context model to enable possible provision of consumer data to the property to enable adaptive or customized services to the consumer application via the property.

In another exemplary embodiment an apparatus for enabling a dual mode communication interface is provided. The apparatus includes means for receiving property information from a provider node means for providing the property information to a DCCI based context model and means for enabling access by a consumer application to the property via the DCCI based context model to enable possible provision of adaptive or customized services to the consumer application via the property.

Embodiments of the invention may provide a method apparatus and computer program product for employment in web based or other network based operating environment. As a result for example device users may enjoy improved capabilities with respect to applications and services accessible via the device.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted received and or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Moreover the term exemplary as used herein is not provided to convey any qualitative assessment but instead merely to convey an illustration of an example. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention may be employed to for example provide an expanded set of properties e.g. both remote properties and in device properties that may be supported by a set of standard interfaces. Accordingly communication may be provided to enable consumers or applications to request certain services such as property initializations expected data formats granularity of data data abstractions service invocations and or the like.

The mobile terminal may include an antenna or multiple antennas in operable communication with a transmitter and a receiver . The mobile terminal may further include an apparatus such as a controller or other processing element that provides signals to and receives signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system and or may also include data corresponding to user speech received data and or user generated data. In this regard the mobile terminal may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols or the like. For example the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with 3.9G wireless communication protocol such as E UTRAN evolved universal terrestrial radio access network with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols or the like. As an alternative or additionally the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms. For example the mobile terminal may be capable of communication in a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication networks.

It is understood that the apparatus such as the controller may include circuitry implementing among others audio and logic functions of the mobile terminal . For example the controller may comprise a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile terminal are allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The controller thus may also include the functionality to convolutionally encode and interleave message and data prior to modulation and transmission. The controller may additionally include an internal voice coder and may include an internal data modem. Further the controller may include functionality to operate one or more software programs which may be stored in memory. For example the controller may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a conventional Web browser. The connectivity program may then allow the mobile terminal to transmit and receive Web content such as location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like for example.

The mobile terminal may also comprise a user interface including an output device such as an earphone or speaker a ringer a microphone a display and a user input interface which may be coupled to the controller . The user input interface which allows the mobile terminal to receive data may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile terminal to receive data such as a keypad a touch display not shown or other input device. In embodiments including the keypad the keypad may include numeric 0 9 and related keys and other hard and soft keys used for operating the mobile terminal . Alternatively the keypad may include a conventional QWERTY keypad arrangement. The keypad may also include various soft keys with associated functions. In addition or alternatively the mobile terminal may include an interface device such as a joystick or other user input interface. The mobile terminal further includes a battery such as a vibrating battery pack for powering various circuits that are used to operate the mobile terminal as well as optionally providing mechanical vibration as a detectable output.

Although not required in some embodiments the mobile terminal includes a media capturing element such as a camera video and or audio module in communication with the controller . The media capturing element may be any means for capturing an image video and or audio for storage display or transmission. For example in an exemplary embodiment in which the media capturing element is a camera module the camera module may include a digital camera capable of forming a digital image file from a captured image. As such the camera module includes all hardware such as a lens or other optical component s and software necessary for creating a digital image file from a captured image. Alternatively the camera module may include only the hardware needed to view an image while a memory device of the mobile terminal stores instructions for execution by the controller in the form of software necessary to create a digital image file from a captured image. In an exemplary embodiment the camera module may further include a processing element such as a co processor which assists the controller in processing image data and an encoder and or decoder for compressing and or decompressing image data. The encoder and or decoder may encode and or decode according to a JPEG standard format or another like format.

The mobile terminal may further include a user identity module UIM which may generically be referred to as a smart card. The UIM is typically a memory device having a processor built in. The UIM may include for example a subscriber identity module SIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC a universal subscriber identity module USIM a removable user identity module R UIM or any other smart card. The UIM typically stores information elements related to a mobile subscriber. In addition to the UIM the mobile terminal may be equipped with memory. For example the mobile terminal may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The mobile terminal may also include other non volatile memory which may be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively comprise an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like. The memories may store any of a number of pieces of information and data used by the mobile terminal to implement the functions of the mobile terminal . For example the memories may include an identifier such as an international mobile equipment identification IMEI code capable of uniquely identifying the mobile terminal . Furthermore the memories may store instructions for determining cell id information. Specifically the memories may store an application program for execution by the controller which determines an identity of the current cell i.e. cell id identity or cell id information with which the mobile terminal is in communication.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to in which certain elements of an apparatus for enabling the provision of a dual mode communication interface are displayed. The apparatus of may be employed for example on the mobile terminal of . However it should be noted that the apparatus of may also be employed on a variety of other devices both mobile and fixed e.g. computers or servers and therefore the present invention should not be limited to application on devices such as the mobile terminal of . Alternatively embodiments may be employed on a combination of devices including for example those listed above. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may be embodied wholly at a single device e.g. the mobile terminal or by devices in a client server relationship. Furthermore it should be noted that the devices or elements described below may not be mandatory and thus some may be omitted in certain embodiments.

Referring now to an apparatus for enabling the provision of a dual mode communication interface is provided. The apparatus may include or otherwise be in communication with a processor a user interface a communication interface and a memory device . The memory device may include for example volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. volatile memory and or non volatile memory . The memory device may be configured to store information data applications instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. For example the memory device could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively the memory device could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor . As yet another alternative the memory device may be one of a plurality of databases that store information and or media content.

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example the processor may be embodied as various processing means such as a processing element a coprocessor a controller or various other processing devices including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit a FPGA field programmable gate array a hardware accelerator and or the like. The processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device or otherwise accessible to the processor .

Meanwhile the communication interface may be embodied as any device or means embodied in either hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network and or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus. In this regard the communication interface may include for example an antenna and supporting hardware and or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network. In fixed environments the communication interface may alternatively or also support wired communication. As such the communication interface may include a communication modem and or other hardware software for supporting communication via cable digital subscriber line DSL universal serial bus USB or other mechanisms.

The user interface may be in communication with the processor to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface and or to provide an audible visual mechanical or other output to the user. As such the user interface may include for example a keyboard a mouse a joystick a touch screen display a conventional display a microphone a speaker or other input output mechanisms. In an exemplary embodiment in which the apparatus is embodied as a server or some other network devices the user interface may be limited or eliminated. However in an embodiment in which the apparatus is embodied as a mobile terminal e.g. the mobile terminal the user interface may include among other devices or elements any or all of the speaker the microphone the display and the keyboard .

In an exemplary embodiment the processor may be embodied as include or otherwise control an interface processor . In some embodiments the interface processor may be in communication with one or more applications e.g. application that may act as consumers with respect to device context information provided e.g. via DCCI by the interface processor . Application may be a web application or some other network application for which information about properties associated with the apparatus of may be useful. As such in some cases the application may be in communication with the interface processor via the communication interface and or via the processor .

The interface processor may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to perform the corresponding functions of the interface processor as described below. The interface processor may be configured to process property extensions for local and or remote properties as described herein. In some cases the interface processor may further be configured to define property changes. The definition of property changes may include defining additional properties and or processing additional properties defined by other nodes. Defining property changes may also encompass defining new types of properties or defining value changes for new or existing properties or other topology changes such as removal of properties. The interface processor may therefore be configured to enable dual mode communication between provider nodes e.g. sources or in device and or remote properties and consumer applications. In this regard for example contrary to prior DCCI communications which were essentially unidirectional in that consumers read context information from providers the interface processor of embodiments of the present invention enables the provision of adaptive services and or customized services by providing a mechanism by which consumers may provide information to providers. The information provided to a provider may then be used by the provider to provide an adaptive service and or customized service to the consumer.

In an exemplary embodiment the interface processor may be implemented at the mobile terminal . However the interface processor may also or alternatively be implemented at any of a number of other devices both mobile and fixed and thus is not limited to implementation at a mobile terminal. By employing embodiments of the present invention a user may utilize the mobile terminal to provide adaptive and or customized services with respect to external devices via the DCCI interfaces. For example a user may walk into a room and the browser application of the user s mobile terminal which may be playing a particular song on its media player and the web browser may communicate with an application controlling lighting in the room in order to dim the lights based on the mood of the particular song. As such unlike standard DCCI interfaces which essentially supported proactive nodes that push data into the DCCI model embodiments of the present invention may further support reactive nodes that process an input in order to deliver an output based on the input. Thus as another example a provider node e.g. a printer may expose a current value of active or not active . The printer may additionally provide an interface allowing an application e.g. a consumer to set print parameters such as blackness level mode of printing and or the like. If the consumer uses the interface the consumer may be requesting a customized service e.g. in relation to print parameter options . As another example a location based application may request the provision of location data from a location provider under a particular circumstance or set of circumstances e.g. when the user has moved at least 10 meters every 5 seconds every time the user moves etc. . The request may translate how the location property is initialized e.g. based on a spatial parameter e.g. every 10 meters or a temporal parameter e.g. every 5 seconds .

As can be seen from the examples above the interface processor by virtue of enabling dual mode communication between providers and consumers may enable the provision of adaptive and or customized services to accommodate reactive and proactive nodes. The ability to provide such adaptive and or customized services may at least in part be attributed to the fact that the interface processor supports both in device properties and remote properties. In device properties may include such properties as battery life calendar information network signal strength information from local widgets or programs and or numerous other proactive and reactive nodes. Remote properties may be properties related to other devices and or services that may be accessible or available to the device hosting the interface processor e.g. the mobile terminal . For example in a smart space in which other devices or services in the smart space may be accessible to the mobile terminal properties related to one or more of the remote devices or services accessible to the mobile terminal may be considered remote properties.

When used for defining additional extensions with respect to properties of standard DCCI interfaces the interface processor may utilize the DCCI field propertyType which may be defined as a DOMString. In other words the propertyType field may identify the corresponding property identified by the interface. As such in general terms the interface processor may be configured to enable the provision of additional extensions for corresponding additional properties supported using a property identification field e.g. the propertyType field . In an exemplary embodiment the property identification field may include a name of the property followed by a . and a string of namespaces for extensions. Thus as an example a GPS property may have a property identification field of GPS.ext.nokia.com indicating to any calling application e.g. application that the property GPS in a DCCI tree has a proprietary interface extension that can be resolved within the ext.nokia.com namespace. Thus the interface processor may enable the definition of additional properties for which device information may be provided via DCCI.

For DCCI properties that host the property identification field e.g. the propertyType field with an extension there may be an additional method called. The method may have any method name desirable such as for example submitExtensionCall DOMString methodName type any parameterList . As such the metadata interface of such properties may expose an additional interface called extensions that may host a set of method structures. Each structure may be identified by a method name followed by a parameter name and type or class of parameter. As such the interface processor may provide support for additional methods and or calls for use in connection with adaptive and or customized service provision. Thus for example the interface processor may be used to determine whether a particular call is to be sent to a local node or remote node.

In an exemplary embodiment nodes such as consumers or applications e.g. application may be made aware of the addition of new properties new types of properties and or value changes to new or existing properties in a number of different ways. In some cases the interface processor may be further configured to generate an event notification e.g. a property added notification to indicate that a new property has been added. Notably in the context used herein the word new should be understood to mean most recent or currently added with respect to the entity adding the property and not necessarily newness relative to the name or identity of the new property having not been used previously in connection with other nodes. As such for example the same property name may be provided in connection with different nodes and or different namespaces.

The event notification may include an identification of the new property added or identification of a property changed by a target node firing or initiating the event notification e.g. the node associated with the interface processor . In some instances applications or consumers may subscribe to a particular service in order to receive the event notification. In this regard for example an application e.g. application may subscribe to receive event notifications by adding an event listener at any node including in this instance at the node associated with the interface processor . In some embodiments an application may provide an event listener at a root node in order to receive all notifications associated with the corresponding root node including new properties added new types of properties value changes for new or existing properties and or other topology changes such as removal of a property. When the event notification is fired or generated the corresponding event may captured by the event listener to indicate that the new or changed property associated with the corresponding event is available.

Property activation may be accomplished in different ways as well. As an example according to a first exemplary embodiment when an event notification is generated by the interface processor the event notification may be indicative of an already active property that can be directly used by the consumer. In an alternative embodiment the event notification may simply signal availability of the corresponding property but not necessarily that the corresponding property is active. In such a situation when the consumer adds a new event listener e.g. for changes such as value changes to the corresponding property at the node corresponding to the property the provider e.g. the node may start sourcing data regarding its object representation. As such properties may only start sourcing information if there is a consumer that actually requests such information e.g. as indicated by the consumer adding a new event listener at the node corresponding to the property . Notably the new event listener may be a different event listener from that described above in relation to listening for the event notification. In this regard the new event listener may be a listener that only listens for value changed events.

With respect to local properties each local property may use the provider interface to get an entry within the DCCI tree of the DCCI model . The entry may be determined based on security and ontology properties. Local properties may be invoked directly via the local interface processor via the provider interface . When a new property is added the property may call a method e.g. an addExtensions method of the provider interface that may pass a list of method names and an associated parameter list. The provider interface may convert these method names and the parameter list into an appropriate metadata structure and also create an instance for the property within the DCCI tree adding the new property identification e.g. propertyType that is provided by the provider. The consumer application e.g. application may look up the metadata structure to learn the method names and parameter list. The consumer application may then call the new DCCI method e.g. submitExtensionCall passing the method name and the parameter list. The provider interface via the call may then convert the data passed into a DOMString serialization and pass the DOMString serialization to the local interface processor . The local interface processor may maintain an internal lookup table e.g. in the memory device regarding property invocation and method lists. The local interface processor may convert the received DOMString from the provider interface to find an appropriate provider and method call. The method call may then be made dynamically through direct invocation or through another mechanism such as serializing the same DOMString over D Bus communication stream to the provider. In this regard the D Bus may be an example of a device inter process communication channel used to send information between applications. As such method calls made over the D Bus may be serialized as a message addressed to a particular application. The particular application may then listen and perform the service requested and place an output back on the D Bus addressed to the browser application .

With respect to remote properties the operation of the remote interface processor may be similar to that described above in relation to the local interface processor . However in some cases additional stacks may be supported by remote properties. Thus for example converting the DOMString from a remote provider to protocol specific entries may be handled by the stacks . In any case processed output from the providers may be exposed back via a value interface of DCCI.

Accordingly in embodiments of the present invention a device or service may provide an input in the form of property information e.g. application state information initialization values settings information requests for information and or the like to a consumer and the provider may provide adaptive services and or customized services to the consumer based on the property information. In this regard adaptive services may include services provided in dependence upon current context for which the services provided are adapted to user device current context. Customized services may include services that are properly customized and not necessarily adapted according to provided parameters such as user context. As such in some cases customized services may include the supplying of initialization parameters instead of context data. The provision of the information above may be handled by the interface processor . Some embodiments may further provide for the creation of new extensions to extend the set of interfaces available to support both in device or local and remote properties via the interface processor . Moreover in some embodiments the interface processor may be further configured to generate an event notification to provide an indication that a new property is either active or available for activation by a consumer. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may provide for dual mode communication between consumers and providers with respect to DCCI so that an application doesn t need particular protocols in order to communicate with remote devices but instead may communicate with such devices via an extension to standard API interfaces provided as described above.

Accordingly blocks or steps of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks or steps of the flowchart and combinations of blocks or steps in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In this regard a method according to one embodiment of the invention as shown in may include receiving property information from a provider node at operation . The received property information may be new property information information about a new type of property a value change to a new or existing property or another topology change. The method may further include providing the property information to a context model e.g. a delivery context client interface model at operation . The provision of the property information to the context model may be accomplished by the new property calling a provider interface function to add an extension. As a result of the call the provider interface may create required metadata structures e.g. method and parameters for the new property and create an instance of the new property for example with the name of the property followed by a domain name. The method may further include enabling access by a consumer application to the property via the context model to enable the possible provision of consumer data to the property to enable services e.g. adaptive services and or customized services to the consumer application via the property at operation . Operation may include enabling the consumer application to lookup the property metadata structures and call the method relevant to the new property with its associated parameter list. On receipt of the call the provider interface may perform its respective functions to provide the consumer application with the output of the method. The provider node may be for example an application or device e.g. a user interface or other device that may be local or remote with respect to a device practicing the method e.g. the mobile terminal . In the context used herein the term local may be understood to relate to situations where the consumer and provider are on the same device while the term remote relates to situations where the consumer and provider are on different devices.

In an exemplary embodiment the method may include further optional operations as well examples of which are shown in in dashed lines. Of note any or all of the optional operations of may be included in various combinations. Additionally the ordering of the optional events need not necessarily be as provided in the example of . In an exemplary embodiment the method may further include enabling definition of an additional extension with respect to a property associated with the delivery context client interface model at operation . The method may further include generating an event notification to indicate that a new property has been added including an additional extension to standard interfaces of the delivery context client interface model at operation .

In some embodiments certain ones of the operations above may be modified or further amplified as described below. It should be appreciated that each of the modifications or amplifications below may be included with the operations above either alone or in combination with any others among the features described herein. In this regard for example enabling definition of the additional extension may include enabling provision of the additional extension for a corresponding additional property identified using a property identification field or providing a corresponding method identified by a method name a parameter and an indication of a class of the parameter. As another example generating the event notification may include providing the event notification to the application in response to the application subscribing to receive event notifications from the provider node. In some cases in response to a listener detecting the event notification an active property added may be activated or an available property added may be activated if it had not yet previously been activated. In some embodiments the provision of properties may include the provision of local properties or remote properties.

In an exemplary embodiment an apparatus for performing the method of above may comprise a processor e.g. the processor configured to perform each of the operations described above. The processor may for example be configured to perform the operations by performing hardware implemented logical functions executing stored instructions or executing algorithms for performing each of the operations. Alternatively the apparatus may comprise means for performing each of the operations described above. In this regard according to an example embodiment examples of means for performing operations to may comprise for example the processor and or the interface processor or an algorithm executed by the processor for controlling the flow of information as described above.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

