---

title: Wireless communication device that prioritizes access probe handling using a predetermined transmission delay
abstract: A wireless communication device that prioritizes the receipt of access probes within the slots of a base station having a slotted access protocol for incoming communications from wireless communication devices, where the slotted access protocol includes a plurality of discrete slots in which communication packets from wireless communication devices are received and communication packets arriving earlier in a slot are handled first by the base station. The wireless communication device can statically or dynamically change a predetermined delay in sending the access probe to insure it arrives earlier or later in a slot so as to cause a priority of handling by the base station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583117&OS=08583117&RS=08583117
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08583117
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080722
---
The present invention relates to mobile communications. More specifically the present invention relates a wireless communication device that prioritizes the handling of access probes from wireless communication devices sent to a base station preferably in a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA wireless communication network.

In computer networks both wired and wireless a problem arises in contention management which is when data collisions occur in a shared medium for transmission when two client machines both attempt to send data at the same time. Networking protocols include mechanisms to detect and correct for the data collisions created such as Carrier Sense Multiple Access With Collision Detection CSMA CD used by Ethernet and the Aloha protocol for wireless networks. Aloha is an OSI layer 2 protocol for networks with broadcast topology. One major difference between Aloha and Ethernet protocols on a shared transmission medium is that Ethernet protocol uses CSMA CD which broadcasts a jamming signal to notify all computers connected to the channel that a collision occurred forcing computers on the network to reject their current packet or frame. The basic Aloha protocol simply notifies the computers of the collision and requests that they send their data again later with no specific generally accepted methodology to determine the delay.

An improvement to the original Aloha protocol was Slotted Aloha which introduced discrete timeslots in which a data could be received. To implement the protocol a centralized clock sends out data to the outlying clients to inform of the timing for the slots and the clients are only allowed to send their packets immediately after receiving slot time data. A client can send only at the beginning of a timeslot and thus collisions are reduced because the windows for a collision are greatly reduced.

Most CDMA wide area access networks use a variant of the Slotted Aloha protocol as an Access Channel AC multiple access protocol. An access channel is typically a mobile device to base station communications channel used primarily for control and sending short messages such as call origination page response and registration. Individual access messages are contained in short bursts of data called probes and the probes are handled based upon when they are received in the timing slots at the base station.

Thus the access probes from the wireless communication device can collide within the timing slots at the base station and the data first received in the slot will be handled to the detriment of the other devices sending colliding data. It is thus to the provision of a wireless communication device and method that prioritizes the handling of received access probes that the present invention is primarily directed.

Briefly described the present invention includes a system method and wireless communication device that prioritize the receipt of access probes within the slots of a base station having a slotted access protocol for incoming communications from wireless communication devices where the slotted access protocol includes a plurality of discrete slots in which communication packets from wireless communication devices are received and communication packets arriving earlier in a slot are handled first by the base station. The wireless communication device can statically or dynamically change a predetermined delay in sending the access probe to insure it arrives earlier or later in a slot so as to cause a priority of handling by the base station for any collision that might occur from the sent probe. There may be additional delays in use by the wireless communication device in sending access probes such as PN randomization to avoid data collision and temporal advantages in proximity to the base station.

In one embodiment the wireless communication device selectively communicates with a base station that includes a slotted access protocol for incoming communications from wireless communication devices the slotted access protocol including a plurality of discrete slots in which communication packets from wireless communication devices are received and communication packets arriving earlier in a slot being handled first by the base station the wireless communication device including a computer platform configured to substantially synchronize communications from the wireless communication device with the slotted access protocol of the base station. A first communication device is on or accessible to the computer platform and is configured to request resources from the base station by sending an access probe thereto typically on an access channel. A second communication device is also on the computer platform and is configured to send any access probe to the base station and the second communication device is configured to prioritize the receipt of access probes within the slots at the base station through including a predetermined delay in the transmission of the access probe from the wireless communication device to the base station thereby causing higher priority access probes to be received earlier in a slot at the base station.

In one embodiment the method for prioritizing access probes from a wireless communication device that selectively communicates with a base station having a slotted access protocol for incoming communications from wireless communication devices with the slotted access protocol include a plurality of discrete slots in which communication packets from wireless communication devices are received and communication packets arriving earlier in a slot being handled first by the base station the method includes the steps of synchronizing communications from the wireless communication device with the slotted access protocol of a base station then prioritizing the receipt of access probes within the slots at the base station through including a predetermined delay in the transmission of the access probe to the base station thereby causing higher priority access probes to received earlier in a slot at the base station and sending the access probe to the base station to send data and or request resources therefrom.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that they provide a mechanism that can penalize a low priority access probe only when it otherwise competes with a higher priority probe in the same access channel slot at the base station. A more aggressive access parameter can easily be applied to higher priority access probes than to lower priority access probes even if other collision avoidance mechanisms are in use. The prioritization of access probe receipt is particularly advantageous in timing critical communications such as PTT group communication setup and transmission.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

The present system and method allows all wireless communication devices to have the same persistence probability yet still implement different priority levels of different access probes by leveraging a property of the CDMA standard. In CDMA systems an access probe can be successfully decoded by the base station even when it collides with one or more other access probes of similar received power level if the access probe arrives at the base station earlier than any other access probes by a certain number of chips. Typically the duration of a chip in CDMA systems is sufficiently smaller than the duration of an information bit. This implies that the base station can successfully decode an access probe even when it collides with another access probe which is separated in time by a very short period. In order to make higher priority access probes arrive at the base station earlier the wireless communication device can delay the transmission of its access probe by a specified number of chips according to the priority level of the access probe. No chip level delay is applied to the highest priority access probes d 0 d chip delay is applied to the next highest priority level access probes and so forth. In general N priority levels can be defined by using d d . . . dN d

In a lx EV DO network different persistence probabilities A Persistence are defined for different access terminal classes. A standard practice for assigning different priorities to different wireless communication devices is to define multiple classes of devices and apply different access parameters according to the class. For example devices belong to a high priority class such as emergency personnel can transmit an access probe quickly since they have a favorable persistence probability. Devices in a low priority class experience longer access channel transmission delays since they need to go through a longer persistence test. A less favorable persistence probability is preferably applied to them irrespective of the access channel traffic load. In an alternate embodiment if prioritization is needed per access probe basis rather than per wireless communication device basis different persistence priorities can be applied to different access probes from the same wireless communication device .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store can also present on the server side LAN for selectively storing any data regarding the group communications. It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In additional to half duplex voice communications there can be group directed media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . The group directed media can also be streaming media or an interactive session on another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a game hosted on data store or private bulletin board. Also the group directed media could be half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication computer device at the time of requesting the group directed communication to be sent e.g. send a target list. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending group directed communications the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the group communication computer device and the group communication computer device can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device .

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

It should be noted that a low priority access probe is likely to be lost since it arrives at the base station later than the higher priority access probe. If the base station is capable of decoding two or more simultaneous access probes which are separated by a certain number of chips both access probes can be successfully decoded in the sequence received.

It can be seen that system provides an inventive method for prioritizing access probes from a wireless communication device that selectively communicates with a base station having a slotted access protocol for incoming communications from wireless communication devices as shown in with the slotted access protocol include a plurality of discrete slots in which communication packets from wireless communication devices are received and communication packets arriving earlier in a slot being handled first by the base station including the steps of synchronizing communications from the wireless communication device with the slotted access protocol of a base station prioritizing the receipt of access probes within the slots at the base station through including a predetermined delay in the transmission of the access probe to the base station thereby causing higher priority access probes to received earlier in a slot at the base station and sending the access probe to the base station to send data and or request resources therefrom.

In one embodiment the computer platform can include a clock cycle wherein each cycle is shorter in duration than the duration of a slot of the base station and including a predetermined delay in the transmission of the access probe to the base station including a predetermined number of clock cycles chip delay etc. . The base station can further selectively ignore the priority in which the access probe is received in a slot. Further the wireless communication device can selectively change the predetermined delay based upon predetermined criteria such as the wireless communication device or the type of access probe being sent. One or more additional predetermined delays to an access probe can be implemented by the wireless communication device . Furthermore sending the access probe to the base station to request resources therefrom can be requesting a traffic channel or any other resource as would be known to one of skill in the art.

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

