---

title: Composite armor having a layered metallic matrix and dually embedded ceramic elements
abstract: According to typical inventive practice, a first metallic material is poured into a mold including a bottom inside surface having regularly arrayed rises (truncated spherical convexities). The molten first metallic material cools and solidifies to include a surface correspondingly having regularly arrayed dents (truncated spherical concavities). The resultant “inner casting” is removed from and repositioned in the mold so that the inner casting's dent-laden surface faces upward. Ceramic spheres are placed in the dents. A second metallic material (having a higher melting point than the first metallic material) is poured into the mold with the inner casting and spheres in place. The molten second metallic material cools and solidifies as an “outer casting” surrounding the inner casting and the spheres. The resultant integral armor structure includes the inner casting, the outer casting, and the spheres, each sphere embedded partially in the inner casting and partially in the outer casting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07833627&OS=07833627&RS=07833627
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07833627
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080327
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to ballistic armor systems more particularly to composite ballistic armor systems that include a metallic matrix and one or more metallic or non metallic elements contained therein.

Military armor applications include land air and sea vehicles stationary structures and personnel. The need for lighter weight and more effective armor plating for protecting various military vehicles is ongoing especially as enemy munitions become increasingly powerful. Protection of the vehicles and their occupants is needed against impact by a projectile such as a ballistic body e.g. small arms fire or an explosive fragment e.g. shrapnel from a bomb blast . Conventional metal vehicle armor systems basically consist of metal alloy plates principally steel. These conventional armor systems are becoming prohibitively heavy in order to protect vehicles from increasingly formidable attack capabilities.

A metal matrix composite MMC material is a composite material having a metallic matrix and one or more elements metallic or non metallic contained in the metallic matrix. One approach that has been considered for constructing an armor system that is both strong and lightweight involves the utilization of one or more hard solid elements and a relatively lightweight metallic material elemental metal or metal alloy as a matrix material for containing the elements. Generally speaking according to the theory of operation of a metal matrix composite armor system an element or elements contained in a metallic matrix serve to absorb the energy of an impinging projectile by dissipating the energy into a volume surrounding the penetration point.

For instance hard spheres e.g. ceramic spheres of uniform size have been considered for embedment within a lightweight metal such as an aluminum alloy. For optimal efficiency of energy dissipation of an impinging projectile the embedded spheres should be arranged in a regular array so that the spheres are not in contact with each other and so that there is a good bond between the spheres and the metal matrix. Fabrication of a metal matrix composite armor system containing spherical elements has been problematical insofar as achieving these objectives.

Aluminum oxide commonly called alumina silicon carbide boron carbide and titanium carbide are ceramic materials that are known to be suitable for armor applications. These conventional armor ceramics have been used in conventional practice of armor systems.

In view of the foregoing an object of the present invention is to provide a metal matrix composite armor system that is durable and lightweight and that affords effective performance in resisting projectile impact.

A further object of the present invention is to provide an efficient and cost effective method of producing such a metal matrix composite armor system.

According to a typical inventive method for making a composite armor system a mold includes a base portion having a mold surface characterized by plural elevations. A liquid first metallic material is poured into the mold. The first metallic material has a lower melting point than has the material typically metallic e.g. steel of which the mold is composed. The base portion is heated for a period of time during and after the pouring of the liquid first metallic material into the mold. Typically the heating of the mold is ceased several minutes after the pouring of the first metallic material is commenced and completed. The poured first metallic material gradually cools after the heating of the mold is ceased as the mold gradually cools. A first casting is removed from the mold. The first casting is composed of the first metallic material solidified. The first casting has a casting surface characterized by plural depressions corresponding to the plural elevations of the base portion s mold surface.

The first casting is positioned in the mold upon the mold surface so that the first casting s casting surface faces upward. Plural embedment elements are placed in the depressions of the casting surface. A liquid second metallic material is poured into the mold with the first casting thus positioned upon the mold surface. The second metallic material has a lower melting point than has the first metallic material. The base portion is heated for a period of time during and after the pouring of the liquid second metallic material into the mold. The second metallic material is permitted to infiltrate with heating persisting for a suitable period of time to promote coverage and bonding among all of the adjacent surfaces of second metallic material the first casting and the embedment elements. Typically the heating of the mold is ceased several minutes after the pouring of the second metallic material is commenced and completed. The poured second metallic material gradually cools after the heating of the mold is ceased as the mold gradually cools. An integral structure is removed from the mold. The integral structure includes the first casting the embedment elements and a second casting. The second casting is composed of the second metallic material solidified.

The inventive fabrication method described in the two preceding paragraphs represents a kind of dual casting methodology. In accordance therewith a first inner metallic component of the inventive armor product is cast using a mold. The mold together with the first inner metallic component and plural embedment elements is subsequently used again to cast a second outer metallic component thereby forming the inventive armor device comprising the first inner metallic component the embedment elements and the second outer metallic component. According to an alternative inventive approach to making an inventive armor device the inventive practitioner does not cast the first inner metallic component. Rather the inventive practitioner provides the first inner metallic component by first obtaining a metallic e.g. titanium plate that is smooth on both faces and then creating indentations in one of the faces such as via embossing or another known technique for dimensionalizing a smooth metal surface.

The present invention s integral armor structure is typically configured in terms of its proportions as an armor plate having small through plane thickness relative to its in plane length and width. The inventive integral structure represents a composite armor system including metallic matrix material and plural embedment elements embedded in the metallic matrix material. The present invention s composite armor system includes a layered configuration whereby the embedment elements are situated at an interface between the first casting and the second casting. To enhance the strength e.g. delamination resistance of the integral structure the second casting should be rendered completely exteriorly with respect to the first casting and the embedment elements. Each embedment element of the composite armor system is partially embedded in the first casting and partially embedded in the second casting. According to frequent inventive practice the embedment elements are spherical. Each spherical embedment element is embedded in the first casting between approximately one third and one half of its diameter and is embedded in the second casting between approximately one half and two thirds of its diameter.

The present invention lends itself to varied practice in several respects. Numerous metals and metal alloys can be used for the mold material the first inner casting material and the second outer casting material. The present invention s mold is typically made of steel but can be made of another typically metallic suitable material. The mold can be designed and constructed to be re usable by an inventive practitioner. Good casting materials should be used for the first inner and second outer castings especially for the second outer casting generally there are many metallic materials that are known to be suitable casting materials and these can be considered for inventive practice. Steel is a preferred material for the mold but other suitable mold materials can be used. A preferred first inner casting material is a titanium alloy. A preferred second outer casting material is an aluminum alloy e.g. A356 . A typical aluminum alloy is lightweight and strong and not many other metallic materials meet both criteria as well. Some aluminum alloys and some other alloys are precipitation hardened and thus may represent a stronger metallic material.

In inventive testing the present inventor used a titanium alloy as the first inner casting material and A356 aluminum alloy as the second outer casting to fabricate a small inventive prototype exhibiting excellent material properties. An aluminum alloy and a titanium alloy may afford combined attributes of light weight and strength. Another option for the first inner casting material that may be suitable for some inventive embodiments is Al 25 Mn alloy an aluminum alloy composed of twenty five percent manganese however a titanium alloy has less porosity and hence may be more suitable than an Al 25 Mn alloy. Steel an alloy of iron and carbon may be another option for the first inner casting material but its drawback may be its heavy weight.

Particularly important in inventive practice are the requirements for selecting materials that are suitable in terms of the relative melting temperatures of the materials. The mold material must have a higher melting temperature than the first inner casting material. The first inner casting material must have a higher melting temperature than the second outer casting material. Similarly the embedded element material e.g. ceramic must have a higher melting temperature than the second outer casting material. The first inner casting material should not have any low temperature eutectic point. Materials should be selected to suit the particular armor applications for which the inventive embodiments are intended. Generally speaking the metallic casting materials should be strong and lightweight. Materials should be selected in terms of compatibilities not only with respect to melting temperatures but also to promote wetting of solid casting materials by liquid casting materials. No pyrophoric materials e.g. magnesium should be used in inventive fabrication a pyrophoric material is commonly regarded in a general sense as a material that automatically or spontaneously ignites or bursts into flames on contact with or exposure to air or another oxygen containing substance.

The term wetting is conventionally understood to refer to contact between a liquid material and a solid material. Wetting is associated with intermolecular interactions between the liquid and solid materials that are brought together. Generally speaking the amount of wetting relates to the contact angle between the liquid gaseous interface and the solid liquid interface. The smaller is the contact angle the greater is the wetting. Furthermore the greater is the wetting the greater is the tendency of the liquid to spread over a larger area of the solid surface and hence the better is the adherence bonding between the liquid material and the solid material. A high degree of wetting and hence of adherence bonding is desirable in the first casting process and especially in the second casting process of the inventive fabrication methodology. In the present invention s first casting process extensive wetting is preferred of the mold by the liquid first casting material. In the present invention s second casting process extensive wetting is preferred of the solid first casting material and the solid spheres by the liquid second outer casting material.

In both the first and second casting processes the heat should continue to be applied for several minutes after pouring so that the metallic casting material remains molten for several minutes after pouring thereby ensuring bonding of all surfaces at an appropriate point the heat can be turned off so that the mold gradually cools down. In other words the mold should be heated for a suitable period for the first casting process and re heated for a suitable period for the second casting process. The temperature of the mold should be at or near the melting point of the metallic casting material used to pour into the mold.

In order to optimize bonding inventive practice frequently prefers that the second outer casting totally surround the first inner casting. If the first inner casting material and the second outer casting material merely describe discrete adjacent layers with no surrounding of the first inner casting material by the second outer casting material the risk of delamination will be greater. During the second casting process some of the second outer casting material which is typically very fluid flows around the first inner casting and between the first inner casting and the mold that is the second outer casting material crawls below the first inner casting and above the topside dimpled surface of the mold. Enough second outer casting material should be poured to completely cover coat the spheres and leave some degree of thickness above the spheres.

The desired thickness of the second outer casting material above the embedment elements may depend on the contemplated armor application of the inventive armor product. Generally in the case of spherical embedment elements in furtherance of bonding of the liquid second outer casting material to surfaces of the spherical elements and the solid first inner casting inventive practice calls for a thickness above the spherical elements of the second outer casting material that is in the approximate range between one quarter and one third of the diameter of the spherical elements. The inventive practitioner can weigh the armor related benefit of additional above spheres thickness of the second outer casting material versus the detriment thereof in terms of the additional weight associated with the additional volume of the second outer casting material.

It is emphasized that an inventive armor product following the second casting process can be subjected to further inventive processing such as being machined and or shaped and or bent and or combined with another structure to suit one or more contemplated armor applications. Of particular note two or more inventive armor structures can be combined to form a larger inventive armor device comprising the smaller inventive armor structures. For instance plural inventive armor structures each characterized by planar layers including a planar layer of embedment elements can be stacked to form a multi layered armor device having plural planar layers of embedment elements. Additionally or alternatively plural inventive armor structures can be arranged side by side to form an armor device having a larger planar area thus presenting a larger strike face for defending against projectiles.

The embedment elements can be made of any hard and relatively tough material such as a metallic material a polymeric material a glass material or a ceramic material. Examples of suitable ceramic materials include silicon carbide SiC boron carbide BC titanium carbide TiC aluminum oxide AlO boron nitride BN etc. Ceramic balls suitable for inventive practice are commercially available primarily manufactured for bearing applications. For instance for his inventive testing the present inventor obtained hard silicon nitride SiN spheres from Saint Gobain Ceramics CERBEC USA East Granby Conn. 06026 www.cerbec.com.

According to frequent inventive practice prior to being placed in the indentations the embedment elements are coated with another material to provide a surface that promotes wetting by the second outer metallic casting material. For instance a silver surface can be provided for the embedment elements to promote bonding of the embedment elements to the second outer casting material e.g. a suitable aluminum casting alloy. For instance the present inventor obtained from the aforementioned manufacturer Saint Gobain Ceramics ceramic SiN spheres each having a mirror smooth surface. The present inventor placed the SiN spheres along with boron carbide powder BC 325 mesh in a ball mill and milled the SiN spheres and BaC powder together for several hours. The BC powder was found with some searching by the present inventor to be the only material available that was harder than the SiN of the spheres. As a result of the milling the surfaces of the ceramic spheres were abraded. The ceramic spheres were then coated with silver in accordance with the method disclosed by the present inventor at U.S. Pat. No. 5 091 362 issued date 25 Feb. 1992 invention title Method for Producing Silver Coated Superconducting Ceramic Powder incorporated herein by reference. The method of Ferrando U.S. Pat. No. 5 091 362 involves decomposition of a silver containing compound to form a thin uniform coating of silver metal on the surface of a particle.

According to many preferred inventive embodiments the embedment elements are spherical. For instance spherical embedment elements can all be congruent geometric spheres with equal diameters and can be arranged in a regular pattern to be embedded thusly. Nevertheless multifarious shapes sizes and distributions of the embedment elements can be inventively selected and effected with the ultimate armor objectives such as deflections of particular projectiles kept in mind by the inventive practitioner. For instance embedment elements of varying shapes and or sizes can be used within a single array of embedment elements essentially describing a single geometric plane. If embedment elements all of the same shape e.g. spherical are used they can be of the same size or different sizes. Additionally or alternatively the coplanar embedment elements can be arranged in any of a variety of one dimensional patterns. Moreover instead of spherical the embedment elements can be prolate spheroidal e.g. egg shaped elements having parallel longitudinal axes or cylindrical e.g. short rod shaped elements having co planar longitudinal axes .

It is generally preferred inventive practice that the embedment elements be spaced apart i.e. not touch each other when they are placed in the indentations of the first inner casting so that they will be spaced apart accordingly when they are completely embedded in dichotomized metallic materials via the second inventive casting process. At least slight separations between the embedded elements are preferred because the inventive armor product will thus be more effective in defending against projectiles. For instance if spherical embedded elements are at least slightly separated from each other they will transfer energy directly from one ball to another upon impact by a projectile. Therefore the design of the original mold particularly with respect to its pimpled surface is significant. The protuberances of the original mold s bottom inner surface should be arranged in such a way that the embedded elements when placed in the first inner casting s indentations corresponding to the mold s protuberances are completely separated from each other.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to and steel tray like mold includes a horizontal base plate portion and four vertical wall portions . The inside surfaces of mold include the pimpled upper surface of horizontal base plate portion and the respective smooth even side surfaces of vertical wall portions . The pimpled upper surface of base plate portion is characterized by a regular pattern of congruent elevations each of which describes the geometric shape of a sphere that is horizontally truncated below its apex at or above its horizontal planar bisector. Associated with mold for instance coupled with base plate portion are heating devices .

With reference to through the interior surfaces including upper surface and side surfaces of mold are coated as appropriate with a mold release agent e.g. zirconium oxide or zirconia . Heating devices serve to extremely raise the temperature of mold and thereby facilitate casting processes in accordance with the present invention. Heating devices are activated to prepare for a first inventive metallic casting process. The melting point of mold must be higher than the melting point of the first metallic casting material which is designated herein L when in liquid form and S when in solid form.

As illustrated in and hot liquid titanium or titanium alloy material L is poured into mold . For convenience the titanium or titanium alloy is referred to herein simply as titanium. Enough molten metallic material L should be poured not only to completely cover the pimpled upper surface but also to provide an additional thickness of the molten metallic material L above the elevations . The amount poured of the molten metallic material L which determines the additional thickness of the solidified metallic material L may depend on the contemplated application s of the completed inventive armor .

Mold should be heated via heating devices to a temperature at or near the melting point of the first metallic casting material for a suitable period of time e.g. for several minutes to ensure complete settling of the first liquid metallic casting material L within mold . Several minutes after the first metallic material L is poured the heating devices are inactivated. The molten titanium L is permitted to cool and solidify for several hours to form a first inventive metallic casting S which is a solid titanium piece.

First metallic casting S is removed from mold . First metallic casting S is a metallic plate having two opposite faces namely a smooth even surface and a dimpled surface . Dimpled surface represents a kind of egg crate configuration. Dimpled surface is characterized by a regular pattern of congruent depressions each of which describes the geometric shape of a sphere that is horizontally truncated above its nadir at or below its horizontal planar bisector. The congruent depressions of dimpled surface correspond to the congruent elevations of pimpled surface .

Before first metallic casting S is situated in an inverted horizontal position within mold an optional and sometimes preferred embellishment in inventive practice is to machine vertical grooves such as shown in around the periphery of first metallic casting S. Grooves will serve as flow channels for facilitating the downward gravitational flow of the second liquid metallic casting material L during a second inventive metallic casting process.

Now referring to through the interior surfaces including upper surface and side surfaces of mold are coated again as appropriate with a suitable mold release agent e.g. zirconium oxide or zirconia . The first metallic casting S is positioned in mold in an inverted orientation i.e. with the depressions facing upward as shown in through . In other words first metallic casting S is inverted vis vis its orientation when cast in mold as shown in and . The periphery of the first metallic casting S abuts the inwardly facing side surfaces of the mold s vertical wall portions .

Spherical elements are placed in the upward facing depressions of the first metallic casting S one spherical element per depression . Spherical elements should be characterized by an at least slightly smaller diameter than are the depressions in order that the spherical elements can be placed in the depressions and remain in place. Preferably for many inventive embodiments spherical elements are slightly smaller in diameter than depressions in order that the spherical elements fit snugly when placed in the depressions . Frequently preferred inventive practice utilizes spherical elements each having a ceramic core and a silver coating such as depicted in the silver coating having been provided in accordance with the afore noted methodology taught by Ferrando U.S. Pat. No. 5 091 362.

As shown in through elevations geometrically constitute a truncated sphere having slightly less than one half of the diameter of an entire sphere. Since the depressions of first metallic casting S are cast from the elevations of mold depressions likewise geometrically constitute a truncated sphere having slightly less than one half of the diameter of an entire sphere as shown in and . Therefore as shown in and through FIG. and there is some approximation here because each spherical element is shown to be slightly smaller than its corresponding depression each spherical element is recessed within a depression to a corresponding depth of slightly less than one half of the diameter of the spherical element . According to typical inventive practice each spherical element is recessed within a depression to a depth in the approximate range between one third and one half of the diameter of the spherical element . As the present invention is frequently practiced congruent spherical elements are all recessed within their corresponding depressions to the same or approximately the same depth. In accordance with the spacing of the mold s elevations and hence of the first metallic casting S s depressions the spherical elements when placed in the depressions are spaced apart from each other.

Heating devices are activated again to prepare for the second inventive metallic casting process. The melting point of mold must be higher than the melting point of both the first metallic casting material and the second metallic casting material . Further the melting point of the first metallic casting material must be higher than the melting point of the second metallic casting material which is designated herein L when in liquid form and S when in solid form .

As illustrated in and hot liquid aluminum or aluminum alloy material L is poured into the mold assembly which includes mold first metallic casting S and spherical elements . For convenience the aluminum or aluminum alloy is referred to herein simply as aluminum. Enough molten metallic material L should be poured not only to completely cover the dimpled surface and spherical elements but also to seep around and below the first metallic casting S as well as to provide an additional thickness of the molten metallic material L above the spherical elements . The amount poured of the molten metallic material L which determines the additional thickness of the solidified metallic material L may depend on the contemplated application s of the completed inventive armor .

Mold should be heated via heating devices to a temperature at or near the melting point of the second metallic casting material for a suitable period of time e.g. for several minutes to ensure complete flow of the second liquid metallic casting material L within mold assembly and circumscriptive of first metallic casting S and spherical elements in particular complete bonding should be achieved of the second liquid metallic casting material L with respect to the adjoining outside surfaces of the first metallic casting S and the spherical elements .

Several minutes after the molten second metallic material L is poured the heating devices are inactivated. The molten aluminum L is permitted to cool and solidify for several hours to form a second metallic casting S which is integrated with the first metallic casting S and the spherical elements . As depicted in through the first metallic casting S the spherical elements and the second metallic casting S together constitute a solid composite piece more specifically an inventive ceramic embedded dual metal matrix composite system a device suitable for armor applications.

A straight planar inventive embodiment is depicted in through . A curved contoured inventive embodiment is depicted in . Both straight planar and curved contoured inventive embodiments can be made in accordance with inventive fabrication methodology such as described herein with reference to through . A curved contoured inventive embodiment would typically require an additional production phase involving bending or shaping of a straight planar product of the inventive fabrication methodology.

The inventive composite armor system shown in to be removed from the mold is an integrated product that includes three components viz. the first metallic casting S the spherical elements and the second metallic casting S. Since the second metallic casting component circumscribes or nearly circumscribes the first metallic casting component and the spherical elements component the first metallic casting component and the second metallic casting component may be described as the inner casting and the outer casting respectively.

Note that the second metallic casting S component of the inventive composite armor system includes an upper second metallic casting layer a lower second metallic casting layer and four peripheral second metallic casting layers . The lower second metallic casting layer covers the first metallic casting S s smooth even surface . The upper second metallic casting layer covers the upper portions of the spherical elements the smooth even portions of the first metallic casting S s dimpled surface that are between the spherical elements the interface between the depressions and the lower portions of the spherical elements . The four peripheral second metallic casting layers cover the first metallic casting S s periphery .

Typically during an inventive fabrication process some liquid second metallic casting material L seeps around the first metallic casting S s periphery and settles below the first metallic casting S s smooth even surface eventually covering the entire surface . The peripheral second metallic casting layers and the lower second metallic casting layer layer correspond respectively to the lateral downward gravitational flow of the highly fluid second metallic material L around the first metallic casting S and to the continued flow thereof beneath the first metallic casting S. Also typically during an inventive fabrication process some liquid second metallic casting material L seeps around and settles below the spherical elements with the result that some of the upper second metallic casting layer is situated between the depressions and the lower portions of the spherical elements .

With reference to and in armor application an inventive composite armor system lends itself to either of two basic dispositions relative to a projectile . As portrayed in the inventive composite armor system is oriented with its smooth surface as the strike face. In contrast as portrayed in the inventive composite armor system is oriented with its dimpled surface as the strike face.

Reference now being made to through a different mode of inventive practice involves the boring e.g. drilling of horizontal and vertical holes e.g. cylindrical channels in a solid metallic block . The horizontal set of holes and the vertical set of holes are each bored at least partially through solid metallic block . The horizontal holes describe at least one horizontal geometric plane and have the same horizontal hole diameter. The vertical holes describe at least one vertical geometric plane and having the same vertical hole diameter which is smaller than the horizontal hole diameter. The horizontal holes and the vertical holes are arranged so as to form intersections each intersection being of a horizontal hole and a vertical hole . Each horizontal hole intersects at least one vertical hole and each vertical hole intersects at least one horizontal hole

Plural spherical elements are situated in the horizontal holes . Each spherical element has a spherical element diameter that is larger than the vertical hole diameter but smaller than the vertical hole diameter. Each spherical element is situated at an intersection between a horizontal hole and a vertical hole for instance rolled and or pushed along a horizontal hole so as to rest upon and partially within a vertical hole . Each intersection at which a spherical element is placed is referred to herein as a drop in location. As shown in and a metallic material in hot liquid form is cast in association with the bored metallic block and the spherical elements . According to typical inventive practice the block metallic material and the metallic material are different metallic materials the latter having a lower melting point than the former. The metallic material S in cooled solidified form encompasses block infiltrates horizontal holes and vertical holes and sets spherical elements .

The resultant composite structure is an armor device such as depicted in and . The armor device shown in is inventively produced similarly as the armor device shown in . In both and the vertical holes are shown to be aligned with the horizontal holes however the vertical holes are arranged differently in versus . As shown in the drop in locations are aligned in two perpendicular directions. As shown in the drop in locations are aligned in one direction along the horizontal channels and are staggered in the perpendicular direction. and can be understood to illustrate how the mode of inventive practice illustrated in through can also lend itself to variation in terms of arrayal of the embedded spherical elements .

In inventive testing the present inventor made a prototype inventive armor structure and observed some casting voids e.g. shrinkage porosity in the solidified metallic material S. This problem may be correctable by designing more favorable configurations of blocks having holes such as being characterized by single layer arrangements of the spherical elements . More open geometries of the holes may also reduce propensities to casting voids. In addition adjustments of the heating temperatures may reduce such propensities in the inventive armor product .

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

