---

title: Multi-mode viewer control for viewing a series of statistical values
abstract: Methods, systems, and techniques for presenting a series of values of statistical data using numeric data and interpretive information are provided. Example embodiments provide a stat viewer control that allows a user to toggle seamlessly between a numeric view of the data and an interpreted view, the interpreted view presenting value judgments associated with the data. In one embodiment, the interpreted view is based at least in part upon one or more rules for interpreting the numeric data as belonging to one or more zones, each zone corresponding to a background emanating from a ring of an archery target representation. This abstract is provided to comply with rules requiring an abstract, and it is submitted with the intention that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117557&OS=08117557&RS=08117557
owner: People Driven Performance, Inc.
number: 08117557
owner_city: Madison Lake
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081230
---
The present disclosure relates to methods systems and techniques for presenting and managing data and in particular techniques for the viewing and management of statistics using a user interface control adapted to same.

Oft times users wish to view different types of data in comparison to other data. For example managers who wish to view different aspects of a manufacturing process over time may wish to view a day s data along with last month s data. In addition such users may invoke various statistical tools to help analyze the data especially as it becomes large. One problem with many such tools is that they tend to be either graphical in nature or numeric. Also many tools cannot be combined with other tools and thus various dashboards or user interfaces may be used to present suites of different tools to users.

For example such information may be presented to users using various types of graphical diagrams such as using charts and graphs. In some cases pie charts may be used to present a comparison of quantitative information by dividing a circle into multiple sections with the relative size of each section reflecting a proportion of a corresponding quantity relative to the other quantities. In other cases bar charts may be used to present a comparison of quantitative information with respect to a common metric e.g. a amount of sales costs incidents etc. by using parallel bars of varying lengths with the relative length of each bar corresponding to a relative quantity. Another form of bar chart is a Gantt chart which may be used to present progress of a project with multiple tasks relative to time.

Embodiments described herein provide enhanced computer and network based methods systems and techniques for displaying a series of statistical data values in a manner amenable to easy interpretive judgment without loss of numeric information. Example embodiments provide a statistics viewer user interface control referred to as a stat viewer or stat viewer control which enables users to define one or more statistics and to illustrate the data values of the respective statistics against defined interpretive rules for quick perusal and or judgment of performance. In overview the stat viewer control provides a raw data mode and an interpreted data mode which can be used together to aid users in understanding the significance of raw data without a lot of additional information.

The stat viewer is a user interface control that allows users to view a series of values for a statistic stat such as values for a selected statistic over time or frequency e.g. a time series of values for a statistic . The stat viewer can be used to view values that change over other parameters however time based values are illustrated to provide a comprehensive example. A user can elect to view the time series values as raw numerical measurements e.g. in a numeric view or in an interpreted view where each raw measurement has been pre judged relative to a scale for example from good to bad. A predefined judgment rule is used to convert a raw numerical measurement to an interpreted value e.g. a good bad scale value . The interpreted view has the advantage that the user need not be familiar with the details of the measurement to know if a displayed value is good or bad the user can observe this directly from the displayed graphic. The user is also able to see a visual representation of the judgment rule that was used to convert the measurement from the numeric scale to the good bad scale.

In a typical embodiment the stat viewer control can be used with additional user interface controls that help a user choose a particular time period and a particular statistic to view. is an example screen display that illustrates an example stat viewer control used in an example context. The stat viewer control can also be used in other contexts and with other types of user interface controls. In the illustrated example the user has chosen the year 2007 using the period selector as the period of interest and has chosen an on time delivery stat as the statistic to view using the stat selector control . The stat viewer control is currently shown displaying the values of on time delivery for each month over the year 2007. The details of this view are further described with respect to . Other statistics are available and the user can choose any available stat to view using the stat selector control . In the example illustrated in the user has selected a stat for display by clicking on the stat s title e.g. on time delivery in the target graph displayed by the stat selector control .

The view selector allows the user to toggle between a raw numeric view and an interpreted view. In the stat is currently shown in interpreted view. In interpreted view stats are displayed according to a judgment scale of some nature such as a good bad value scale. Previously someone or some system has made a judgment interpretation about how the various raw numeric values should be translated to the judged e.g. good bad values. Accordingly the raw numeric values currently displayed in are displayed consistent with this interpretation. In interpreted view every stat is shown against the same value scale e.g. good bad background for example of colored zones good being towards the top of the axis. Notice that the stat s raw numeric value is also displayed at the top of the graph immediately above its associated data dot.

In the particular embodiment of the stats are displayed against a value scale background using the colors associated with an archery target with its standard 5 zones and standard 5 colors. The archery target metaphor is used because the symbol is a familiar visual object that people likely have seen before and can likely immediately recognize. People who know what an archery target represents will intuitively grasp that values emanating from the center are better than values emanating from the outer rings. The interpreted view of a stat viewer control displays statistics as part of a scoreboard or dashboard that makes it easy for people to understand at a glance how well things have gone over successive periods of time. Other visual objects or images may be similarly incorporated to place and display numeric values on a judgment scale.

Additional information may also be displayed relative to an interpretive view. For example the zones rings of the interpreted view can be labeled. An example of zone labeling from the top down or the inner ring toward the outside is outstanding excellent good fair and poor. The number of zones and the colors assigned to each can be configured as desired. In addition other systems of backgrounds may be used with the interpreted view. For example one could configure the background as a rectangle with colored horizontal bands patterned bands or using other metaphors.

In the interpreted view it is easy for a user even someone unfamiliar with a particular statistic to tell whether it was a good month or a bad month by simply glancing at the graph the display of the stat viewer control . Even for someone familiar with the particular statistic the interpreted view can convey an immediate understanding of the significance of the data being displayed.

In some situations some stats may not be amenable to display in an interpreted view in which case raw numeric values are displayed at the top of the graph but no interpreted data dots are plotted in the respective zone area.

As mentioned in addition to selecting the period to display the user can choose a granularity in which to view the period for example using granularity selector button of . illustrates example values for an example statistic over the year broken out by quarter month week and day. In particular stat viewer display shows a single aggregate value for the year e.g. 2007 stat viewer display shows 4 aggregate values for each of the four quarters of the selected year stat viewer display shows 12 aggregate values for each of the twelve months of the selected year stat viewer display shows 52 aggregate values for each of the fifty two weeks of the selected year and stat viewer display shows 365 days worth of values for each day of the selected year. Accordingly the user can adjust the view of the data being displayed e.g. the data dots by adjusting the granularity e.g. using selector button of without additional user actions.

In some situations it may be appropriate to change the interpretation rule for a stat during a course of time. For example suppose a major change has been made in a company s production methodology and now it is easier for the company to produce a higher number of items in a given amount of time. illustrates example displays that occur when a rule change is implemented. For example stat viewer control display shows how such a rule change is presented in a raw numeric view and stat viewer display shows how such a rule change is presented in an interpreted view. In this example a change of rule is made between May and June as indicated by the vertical gray line rule change markers and . If the user selects the information request button below the rule change marker button or an explanation of and justification for the rule change may be displayed. Other indications of rule changes can be similarly accommodated.

In some embodiments the user can also elect to view a statistic s data values in a histogram view. illustrates different histograms for a time series of example stat values for a selected example period. Stat viewer display shows a histogram plotted in an interpreted view and stat viewer display shows a histogram plotted in a raw numeric view of the same statistic. A user control for evoking the histogram view is not shown.

Note that a user can easily switch among any of these views with one or two input device actions such as mouse clicks.

In some embodiments a comparison feature is available that allows a user to compare statistical values from one time period with those of another. Specifically once stat values from one period a focus period are displayed the user can select a second period as a compare to period. illustrates stat values for a selected year period e.g. 2007 compared to a selected compare to period e.g. 2006 by month. In one embodiment the values for the original focus period are shown with different shapes colors or other indications than the values for the compare to period. For example in stat viewer display the values from the compare to period are displayed as square data dots while the values for the focus period continue to display as round data dots. Further in one example embodiment the length of the colored line that connects a round data dot associated with the focus period with its corresponding square data dot associated with the compare to period represents the difference in value between the two periods whereas the color of the line represents whether the change was for good or for bad. For example in the example illustration cyan represents a good change e.g. line and magenta a bad change e.g. line . From the visual feedback the user is then able to focus on the line lengths and colors to get a quick impression of the differences between the two periods. Other indicators for differences in value and for indicating judgment can be similarly incorporated.

Also as shown in stat viewer display in the user can elect to turn the data dots off and simply view the comparison lines. A user control for turning dots on and off is not shown. Turning the dots off reduces screen clutter and makes it easier to focus on the differences between compared values the lines . Also a comparison mode can be applied to the raw numeric view not shown in a similar manner. The user can still elect to view the raw numeric dots and or background in colors representing the interpreted zones within which the dots fall.

The examples described demonstrated data dots as either colored squares or circles. Of note data dots can be configured in many different ways to add additional or different meaning. For example data dots with hollow centers could be used to indicate that no data is available. Also for example dots can take on other shapes for other meanings. Other configurations include enhancements such as coloring the rim around a data dot and flagging data dots with a color icon shape graphic etc. to signify particular properties. In some embodiments a character may be placed in the center of the dot to indicate that additional information is available. For example a C could be used to indicate that there is a comment about this particular data dot and the user can get access to the comment by clicking on the data dot. illustrates some of these dot enhancements and other configuration attributes.

A computing system used to implement a stat viewer control may comprise one or more server and or client computing systems and may span distributed locations. In addition each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. Moreover the various blocks of the application or other code module or logic incorporating a stat viewer control may physically reside on one or more machines which use standard e.g. TCP IP or proprietary interprocess communication mechanisms to communicate with each other.

In the embodiment shown computer system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more Central Processing Units CPU Input Output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display etc. other computer readable media and one or more network connections . An example application code module or other programming logic that incorporates one or more stat viewer controls is shown residing in memory . In other embodiments some portion of the contents some of or all of the components of the application or the stat viewer control may be stored on or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The components of the application including the code used to implement the stat viewer control preferably execute on one or more CPUs and manage the presentation of data as described herein. Other code or programs and potentially other data repositories such as data repository also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more CPUs . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation.

In a typical embodiment the application includes one or more components including the application logic and data used to implement stat viewer control . Other and or different components and or modules may be implemented. In addition components of the application may interact via a network with application or client code one or more client computing systems and or one or more data provider systems for example to supply the data presented by the stat viewer control . Also of note one or more data repositories that contains the source data used to generate data displayed by the stat viewer control may be provided external to the stat viewer control for example in a knowledge base accessible over one or more networks .

In an example embodiment the logic of the stat viewer control is implemented using standard programming techniques. However a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Smalltalk etc. functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme etc. procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula etc. scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript etc. declarative e.g. SQL Prolog etc. etc.

The embodiments described above may also use well known or proprietary synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. However the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques as well for example as an executable running on a single CPU computer system or alternately decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques known in the art including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more CPUs. Some embodiments are illustrated as executing concurrently and asynchronously and communicating using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments may also be supported.

In addition programming interfaces to the stat viewer control can be made available by standard means such as through C C C and Java APIs libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The data repositories and may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other method known in the art for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementation using distributed computing techniques.

Also the example application may be implemented in a distributed environment comprising multiple even heterogeneous computer systems and networks. For example in one embodiment some or all of the application logic the stat viewer control the stat viewer control API the other components and the data are located in physically different computer systems. In another embodiment various modules of the application are hosted each on a separate server machine. Also one or more of the modules may themselves be distributed pooled or otherwise grouped such as for load balancing reliability or security reasons. Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques of described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP etc. etc. Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions of a stat viewer controller.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the logic of the stat viewer control may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the programming logic and or data structures may also be stored as contents e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium e.g. a hard disk a memory a network or cellular wireless network or other data transmission medium or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection such as a DVD or flash memory device so as to enable or configure the computer readable medium and or one or more associated computing systems or devices to execute or otherwise use or provide the contents to perform at least some of the described techniques. Some or all of the logic and data structures may also be transmitted as contents of generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or otherwise included as part of an analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums such as media including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

In blocks the routine executes a loop to process each numeric value from a series of numeric values of a statistic over a designated period for display on the visual roll out. Specifically in block the routine gets a next numeric value to display from the series and in block determines whether there are any more numeric values to process. If there are no more numeric values available in the series to process the routine continues to block to optionally perform other actions otherwise the routine continues to block . In block the routine determines an interpretive zone to associate with the current numeric value as described elsewhere. In block the routine displays a symbolic representation e.g. a dot and or other indicator as described elsewhere of the current numeric value on the displayed visual roll out within a band that corresponds to the interpretive zone determined at block and in a location along the x direction of the visual roll out e.g. such as in a position along the x direction that corresponds to a particular time or sub period within the period associated with the numeric value .

If instead at block it was determined that there are no more numeric values to process the routine continues to block to optionally perform other operations. After block the routine ends. It will be appreciated that in other embodiments various additional and or other information may be presented on the visual roll out e.g. comparison mode etc. such as described elsewhere.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet including but not limited to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 010 122 entitled Multi mode Viewer Control for Viewing a Series of Statistical Values filed Jan. 4 2008 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 009 960 entitled Method and System for Viewing and Managing Groups of Statistics Using a Multi mode Viewer Control filed Jan. 3 2008 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 009 991 entitled Nesting Navigator User Interface Control filed Jan. 4 2008 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the methods systems and techniques for presenting a series of values of a statistic using numeric data and interpretive information discussed herein are applicable to other architectures. Also the methods and systems discussed herein are applicable to differing protocols communication media optical wireless cable etc. and devices such as wireless handsets electronic organizers personal digital assistants portable email machines game machines pagers navigation devices such as GPS receivers etc. .

