---

title: Heating architecture for a composite fairing
abstract: A composite fairing with embedded heating architecture for ice protection includes heating elements arranged on various fairing plies for heating substantially all of the composite fairing. The heating elements are positioned to provide ice protection to substantial portions of the external surface of the composite fairing. Junctions, busbars, and plated through holes are used for delivering electric current to the heating elements on the various fairing plies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08006934&OS=08006934&RS=08006934
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08006934
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

Operation of aircraft engines in adverse weather conditions or at high altitudes can sometimes lead to ice forming on the exposed surfaces of engine inlets. The build up of ice on engine inlet surfaces limits the quantity of air being fed to the engine. This reduction in inlet airflow can result in a reduction of power output and efficiency of the engine. Systems used to prevent or remove ice formation on aircraft nose cones and wing leading edges are well known. Engine inlet anti icing systems are also used and commonly employ a thermal source such as hot air bled from the engine core which is applied to the engine inlet to melt or evaporate ice build up on the external surfaces thereof. However hot air bled from the engine core reduces overall engine performance.

Electrothermal devices have also been used to prevent ice formation and remove ice from aircraft. Commonly employed electrothermal deicers use heating elements that are mounted on a flexible backing. These heating elements can then be attached to aircraft structures with an adhesive. Coatings containing heating elements have also been used. Previous structures employing heating elements in coatings have compromised the strength and integrity of the structures however. Electrical components in these structures may be encapsulated by an insulating layer such as Kapton. These insulating layers typically do not bond well within a structure and reduce the strength of the structure because they take up space that could be used for means of strengthening the structure.

Thus there exists a need for engine inlet components with anti icing features that do not sacrifice structural integrity for anti icing capabilities.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention is a composite fairing with ice protection having a plurality of plies. The composite fairing includes at least one heating element configured to heat a first zone of the fairing a second heating element configured to heat a second zone of the fairing a plated through hole extending through all fairing plies pluralities of junctions and junction busbars for conducting electric current to the first heating element and to the plated through hole and at least one busbar for conducting electric current from the plated through holes to the second heating element.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a composite fairing with ice protection and a plurality of plies includes first second and third heating elements configured to heat separate zones of the fairing plated through holes extending through all fairing plies pluralities of junctions and busbars for conducting electric current to the first heating element and to the plated through holes and busbars for conducting electric current from the plated through holes to the second and third heating elements.

Another exemplary embodiment is a composite fairing with ice protection having a plurality of plies including first and second plies. The first ply includes a first heating element a plated through hole for conducting electric current to other fairing plies and pluralities of junctions and busbars for conducting electric current to the first heating element and to the plated through hole. The second ply includes a second heating element the plated through hole of the first ply and a busbar for conducting electric current from the plated through hole to the second heating element.

Further exemplary embodiments include a method of making a composite fairing with embedded heating elements and having ice protection. The method includes depositing a first heating element on an inner surface of a first fairing ply providing junctions and busbars on the inner surface of the first ply for conducting electric current to the first heating element and providing a through hole area. The method also includes depositing a second heating elements on an inner surface of a second ply providing a through hole area and providing busbars on the inner surface of the second ply for conducting electric current from the through hole area to the second heating element. The method further involves shaping the plies of the composite fairing to their desired configuration co molding the plies together to form the composite fairing drilling at least one through hole extending through all plies of the composite fairing in the through hole area and electro plating the through hole to form a plated through hole.

The present invention relates to an improved architecture for embedded heating elements in a composite fairing that provides the fairing with ice protection while maintaining the integrity of the composite fairing compared to currently available fairings with ice protection capabilities. Previous composite fairings with embedded heating elements employed materials such as Kapton polyimide to encapsulate return circuits for the heating elements. Return circuits were encapsulated because they overlapped the heating elements within a fairing ply and needed to be insulated from the heating elements to function as return circuits. The use of Kapton and similar materials resulted in less efficient bonding of fairing plies. Layers of Kapton also occupied space within the plies of the fairing negatively affecting the strength of the fairing. A Kapton layer is generally about 0.001 inches 0.04 mm thick. Return circuits encapsulated in Kapton generally took up about 0.004 inches 0.16 mm of a fairing ply. Generally a fairing ply is about 0.009 inches 0.23 mm thick. Thus the return circuit and Kapton layers occupied approximately half of the fairing ply thickness.

The present invention eliminates the need for Kapton layers within the composite fairing while still offering ice protection. The present invention provides heating elements and return circuits in a non overlapping configuration on the same fairing ply. With this configuration it is possible to provide ice protection for substantially all of the composite fairing by using ice protection heating elements at various depths of the fairing. This configuration allows the heating elements to prevent or reduce ice formation while maintaining the integrity to the composite fairing.

Each composite fairing is made up of several layers or plies of material. Lightweight and sturdy materials such as fiberglass generally constitute a large part of the several layers of the composite fairing. In one exemplary embodiment a composite fairing will have ten layers or plies. Fairings according to the present invention may also have fewer or a greater number of plies however. Composite fairings according to the present invention may have eight plies or fewer or twelve plies or more. Generally a single fairing ply is about 0.009 inches 0.23 mm thick.

One embodiment of a composite fairing according to the present invention is shown in . The fairing has an upstream end downstream sides A B and downstream ends A B. The fairing is bonded to an inner strut not shown along the inner surfaces of the downstream sides A B. The inner struts extend radially from the inner ring of the engine inlet to the outer ring . The fairing extends substantially the length of an inner strut so that an inner end of the fairing is near the inner ring of the engine inlet and an outer end is near the outer ring of the engine inlet.

The run back heating element is depicted in as a serpentine path with substantially right angles. This illustration depicts the general location of the heating elements and does not limit the geometries nor the size of the run back heating element but rather illustrates the general area the run back heating element occupies. The shape and coverage of the run back heating element may vary depending on the type of engine the location of the fairing within the engine inlet and the ice protection necessary for the engine s intended use. When an electric current is provided to the run back heating element it heats the composite fairing to prevent or reduce ice formation along the downstream sides A B of the fairing. The run back heating element may be made of copper or other materials suitable for heating the composite fairing . The run back heating element is generally sprayed onto a fabric layer of the fairing ply during manufacture but other suitable methods for providing the heating element onto a fairing ply may be used.

Electric current is provided to the composite fairing by an external power source not shown . The external power source is not part of the composite fairing but is located proximate to the fairing. A socket delivers electric current from the external power source to the composite fairing . In an exemplary embodiment the socket resides within the composite fairing and is in contact with each of the inner downstream sides A B of the fairing. In the socket is located within the body of the composite fairing towards the upstream and outer ends of the fairing. Other locations and configurations for the socket are possible but the socket or other means for delivering electric current is generally enclosed by the composite fairing body. Junctions are located within the composite fairing . These junctions provide a path for conducting electric current from the socket to various elements of the composite fairing. The junctions may traverse multiple plies of the composite fairing to reach the socket . In the embodiment described in the junctions are located on the second innermost fairing ply and also extend through the innermost fairing ply to reach the socket . The junctions may traverse more than one fairing ply to connect the socket to the elements of the composite fairing however.

While depicts three junctions between the socket and the composite fairing the present invention is not limited to this number of junctions. For example depicts five junctions . Greater and lesser numbers of junctions may also be suitable in the present invention depending on the number of components in the composite fairing that require electric current to function. According to one junction is connected to the run back heating element and conducts electric current from the socket to the run back heating element . In embodiments where the run back heating element is not connected directly to a junction a busbar may be used to connect the run back heating element to the junction . One junction located towards the outer end of the composite fairing conducts electric current from the socket to a busbar . The busbar conducts the electric current to a plated through hole . While depicts a single plated through hole and a single corresponding busbar the present invention is not limited to this number of plated through holes and busbars. As illustrated in additional plated through holes may be used to provide electric current to additional elements or other plies of the composite fairing . One or more junctions may also travel towards the inner end of the composite fairing and conduct electric current from the socket to one or more sensors not shown .

As illustrates a busbar is located on the same ply as the run back heating element . The busbar conducts electric current from a junction to the plated through hole . The busbar may be made of copper or other materials suitable for conducting electric current within the composite fairing . The busbar may be sprayed onto a fabric layer of the fairing ply during manufacture other suitable methods for providing busbars onto a fairing ply may also be used. The busbar travels from a junction towards the outer end of the composite fairing and then turns ninety degrees and travels towards the downstream end of the composite fairing until it reaches plated through hole . The busbar is configured in this fashion to connect junction and plated through hole while permitting as much surface area as possible on the fairing ply for the run back heating element . Other configurations and busbar paths are also possible such as a straight linear path from a junction to the plated through hole but exemplary embodiments will provide for space on the fairing ply for a large and uninterrupted area for the run back heating element . A network of busbars and plated through holes serve to provide a complete circuit between the socket and the various components of the composite fairing that require electric current.

As further illustrates a plated through hole is also located on the same ply as the junctions and the run back heating element . To provide as much room as possible for the run back heating element in an exemplary embodiment the plated through hole is located near the outer end of the composite fairing . The plated through hole may be located in other appropriate areas of the composite fairing as well. The plated through hole generally traverses all of the plies of the composite fairing . Since the plated through hole generally occupies each ply electric current may be delivered to each fairing ply via the plated through hole. A through hole is generally drilled once the entire composite fairing has been assembled. The hole may be potted with silicone following plating to prevent surface dimpling. The through hole is generally plated with copper by electroplating although other suitable conductive materials such as non copper metal elements or brass may also be used.

A busbar connects the anti ice heating element to the plated through hole . Electric current is conducted to the anti ice heating element by the plated through hole and busbar . To reach these heating elements electric current travels from the socket to the junctions to the busbar on the more inward fairing ply to the plated through hole to the busbar on the outer fairing ply to the anti ice heating element .

As illustrates the anti ice heating element is positioned at the upstream end of downstream side A of the fairing ply. This is in contrast to the location of the run back heating element which is positioned farther downstream on the downstream side A as shown in . This configuration allows the anti ice heating element to heat the upstream end of downstream side A and the run back heating element to heat the downstream end of downstream side A. The two heating elements while on different fairing plies cover different zones of the fairing to provide for ice protection coverage across substantially all of the external surface of the composite fairing. The anti ice heating element provides ice protection in the area of the composite fairing in which the run back heating element does not. The heating elements are located in the axially central region of the fairing because ice protection in this area is most important. Ice protection at the inner end and outer end of the fairing is not as critical for acceptable engine performance.

In exemplary embodiments at least about seventy percent of the external surface of the composite fairing will have ice protection coverage. Ice protection coverage at the external surface of the fairing is provided by the heating elements in the various plies of the composite fairing. In even more exemplary embodiments at least about eighty percent of the external surface of the composite fairing will have ice protection coverage.

While illustrate an embodiment of a composite fairing with a single plated through hole and two heating elements other configurations are possible. illustrate various fairing plies near the outer end of another exemplary embodiment of a composite fairing with embedded heating elements. The embodiment shown in has two plated through holes A B and three separate heating elements. shows two junctions connecting socket to two busbars A B. Busbar A travels from a junction towards the outer end of the composite fairing and then turns ninety degrees and travels towards the downstream end of the composite fairing until it reaches plated through hole A. Busbar B travels upstream turns ninety degrees and travels towards the outer end of the fairing and then turns ninety degrees and travels towards the downstream end of the fairing until it reaches a plated through hole B. Other configurations and busbar paths are also possible such as straight linear paths from junctions to the plated through holes but exemplary embodiments will provide for space on the fairing ply for a large and uninterrupted area for the run back heating element . A network of busbars and plated through holes serve to provide a complete circuit between the socket and the various components of the composite fairing that require electric current.

Also according to busbar A connects plated through hole A to the de ice heating element . Busbar B connects plated through hole B to the anti ice heating elements . Electric current is conducted to the anti ice heating elements and the de ice heating elements by the plated through holes and busbars . To reach these heating elements electric current travels from the socket to the junctions to the busbars on the more inward fairing ply to the plated through holes to the busbars on the outer fairing ply to the anti ice and de ice heating elements .

As illustrates the anti ice heating element and de ice heating element are positioned at the upstream end of downstream side A of the fairing ply. This is in contrast to the location of the run back heating element which is positioned farther downstream on the downstream side A as shown in . This configuration allows the anti ice heating element and de ice heating element to heat the upstream end of downstream side A and the run back heating element to heat the downstream end of downstream side A. The three heating elements while on two different fairing plies span multiple areas of the fairing to provide for ice protection coverage across substantially all of the composite fairing. The anti ice heating element and de ice heating element provide ice protection in the areas of the composite fairing in which the run back heating element does not.

In an exemplary embodiment through holes drilled into the composite fairing have a diameter of about 0.09 inches 2.3 mm and the plating layer has a thickness of about 0.007 inches 0.18 mm . The composite fairing is electrically insulated from other engine inlet components by insulating materials such as silicone. In an exemplary embodiment a silicone erosion coating is applied to the outer surface of the composite fairing . This coating covers the entire outer surface of the composite fairing including the plated through holes and is about 0.01 inches 0.25 mm thick. Additionally silicone material is used to bond the inner surface of the composite fairing to the inner strut it engages. In an exemplary embodiment the silicone bond layer between the fairing and inner strut is about 0.015 inches 0.38 mm thick. The silicone bond traverses a substantial area where the composite fairing and inner strut engage as shown in . Together the silicone coating and silicone bond electrically isolate the composite fairing from other engine inlet components.

In some exemplary embodiments of the present invention the composite fairing may also include sensors such as those used for determining temperature. Temperature sensors such as devices that determine temperature based on measured resistance may be present in various plies of the composite fairing. illustrates a fairing ply having sensor busbars connected to junctions . In this embodiment the sensor busbars traverse the fairing ply from the junctions to an area near the radially inward end inner end of the fairing ply. The ends of the sensor busbars connect to sensors not shown on different plies of the composite fairing. These connections can be made by junctions extending through multiple fairing plies or by use of plated through holes discussed in detail above.

The present invention also provides for a method of making a composite fairing having the heating architecture described above. The composite fairing includes a plurality of individual fairing plies bonded together. Heating elements and other fairing components are added to or deposited on the individual fairing plies. In one method of forming a composite fairing a layer of thermoset adhesive is applied to a ply of high density material that forms a fabric layer. Heating elements are then positioned on the layers of thermoset adhesive and positioned with respect to one another as desired. High temperature resin is then injected into the material thereby impregnating the material with the resin and forming a fabric layer. The resin and thermoset adhesive are then cured and as a result the heating elements adhere to the fabric layer after the curing step to form a fairing ply. A more complete description of the method of forming a fairing ply with embedded heating elements can be found in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0187381 assigned to United Technologies Corporation. Busbars and other components of the fairing plies may be introduced into a fairing ply in similar fashion.

Once the individual fairing plies have been formed they are bent or shaped to the desired configuration. Once shaped the fairing plies are bonded together to form the composite fairing . The through holes are then drilled in the desired location or locations and the through holes are then electroplated as described above. Optionally the through holes are potted with silicone after they are electroplated. An insulating silicone coating is then applied to the outer surface of the composite fairing . The composite fairing is then bonded to an engine inlet inner strut with silicone materials as described above.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

