---

title: Providing access control to user-controlled resources in a cloud computing environment
abstract: A cloud computing environment can be configured to allow third party, user-controlled resources to be included in the pool of resources available in the cloud. The user-controlled resources can include a cloud application to communicate with a cloud management system to coordinate access to the user-controlled resources. The cloud application allows the user to specify the specific set of resources that the cloud can access, such as specific hardware and software resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984505&OS=08984505&RS=08984505
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08984505
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

In application specific computing environments individual users may be able to add their particular computing resources to the perform computing processes. For example the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence SETI program allows individual users to contribute the processing power of their personal systems for performing mathematical computations on experimental data. In these application specific computing environments the user lacks the ability to limit access to their personal system if they participate in the computing environment.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for extending cloud resources to third party resources. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud computing environment can be granted access to user controlled resources such as computing or storage resources of a networked user system.

According to embodiments a cloud computing environment can be configured to allow third party user controlled resources to be included in the pool of resources available in the cloud. To achieve this the user controlled resources can be configured to include a cloud application. The cloud application can be configured to communicate with a cloud management system to coordinate access to the user controlled resources. The cloud application can be configured to identify and allocate a set of resources to be utilized by the cloud.

According to embodiments the cloud application can be configured to allow the user to specify the specific set of resources that the cloud can access. For example the user can specify hardware and software resources such as a particular memory range a particular processor one or more storage devices and the like. Likewise the cloud application can be configured to allow the user to specify particular clouds and cloud management systems that can access the user controller resources and can be configured to allow the user specify particular cloud processes that can be performed on the user controlled resources.

By allowing the user to designate specific resources for contribution to the cloud a user can participate in the cloud environment while maintaining access control over their system. As such the user can enhance the flexibility and power of the cloud environment without surrendering control and security of their individual computing systems.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system because the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in a set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other number of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or farther cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments the user controlled resources can be any type of computer system under the control of a user independent of the owner or operator of the cloud . For example the user controlled resources can be one or more personal computers desktop laptop etc. one or more server computers and the like which are under the control of individuals companies and the like. The user controlled resources can include hardware resources such as processors memory network hardware and bandwidth storage devices and the like and software resources such as operating systems OS application programs and the like. The user of the user controlled resources can desire to make the user controlled resources available to the cloud . As such the cloud management system can utilize the user controlled resources in the pool of resources of the cloud to host applications appliances virtual machines and the like.

In embodiments as shown to make the resources available the user controlled resources can include a cloud application . The cloud application can be configured to allow the user to make a set of the resources of the user controlled resources available to the cloud and configured to allow the cloud management system to request resources from the set of resources. In response to requests the cloud application can be configured to provide access to the set of resources for use by the cloud . As shown the cloud application can be configured to include a control module one or more application programming interfaces APIs and an access control record .

In embodiments the control module can be configured to contain control logic for identifying and providing accesses to a set of resources of the user controlled resources and for communicating with the clouds and APIs . The control module can be configured to communicate with APIs in order to receive requests from the cloud management system for access to resources.

Likewise in embodiments the control module can be configured to communicate with APIs to identify and allocate the set of resources accessible to the cloud . APIs can be configured to contain logic for communicating with the hardware resources of the user controlled resources e.g. processor memory storage devices network interfaces etc. and software resources of the user controlled resources operating systems application programs etc. . For example the control module can be configured to communicate with the OS to identify and allocate resources accessible by the cloud .

In embodiments the cloud application can be configured to allow the user to specify a particular set of resources accessible by the cloud . For example the user may desire to allow only certain resources to be accessible by the cloud such as a particular memory range a particular processor one or more storage devices and the like. Likewise the cloud application can be configured to allow the user to specify particular clouds and cloud management systems that can access the user controller resources and can be configured to allow the user specify particular cloud processes that can be performed on the user controlled resources .

In embodiments to specify the set of resources the control module can be configured to communicate with the user via APIs . APIs can be configured to generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes or web pages as required by the cloud application and to provide an interface for the user to select the particular set of resources to make available to the cloud and to select the clouds and processes that can access the set of resources. For example the cloud application can include in the interface the resources that are available and the cloud application can allow the user to select the set of resources from the available resources. As such the control module can be configured to access the hardware and software resources of the user controlled resources to identify the available resources.

In embodiments once selected by the user the control module can be configured to store the selected set of resources available to the cloud and the selected clouds and processes that can access the set of resources in the access control record . The access control record can be configured as any type of data structure for storing the particular set of resources selected by the user. The control module can be configured to maintain the access record in the cloud application or any any other memory or storage device of the user controlled resources .

In embodiments the cloud application can be configured to control the access to the particular set of resources utilizing any type of access control protocol. For example the cloud application can be configured with a proprietary protocol that communicates with the hardware and software resources of the user controlled resources to allow access to the set of resources and limit access to the remaining resources. Likewise the cloud application can be configured to operate in conjunction with other access control programs such as Security Enhanced Linux SELinux to allow access to the set of resources and limit access to the remaining resources.

In embodiments once the user has selected the particular set of resources the cloud management system can request the set of resources for cloud processes. For example the cloud application can be configured to receive the request for the set of resources via APIs . The request can include the amount of resources desired as well as the particular processes to be performed application appliance virtual machine and the like by the user controlled resources . The control module can be configured to identify the allowed set of resources for the requested cloud from the access control record and communicate with the allowed set of resources via APIs to grant access to the cloud .

In embodiments once the set of resources are identified the cloud application can be configured to grant access to the set of resources. For example the control module can be configured to communicate with the hardware and software resources to grant direct access to the set of resources to the cloud for instance via TCP IP FTP or other protocols or channels. Likewise the control module can be configured to receive the processes to be performed on the user controlled resources and to instantiate the processes on the set of resources.

In embodiments the cloud application can be configured to provide secure communications between the cloud application the cloud and the user controlled resources . The cloud application can be configured to include the necessary logic to perform any known security protocols between the user controlled resources and the cloud . For example the cloud application can be configured to perform authentication secure login passwords checks digital signatures authentication digital certificate authentication etc communication encryption symmetric cryptography asymmetric cryptography etc. and the like.

In embodiments the cloud application can be configured to allow the user to modify or update the set of resources accessible by the cloud the clouds allowed to access the resources and or the processes allowed to access the resources or to allow the user to end participation in the cloud . For example the cloud application can be configured to receive new selections via generated interfaces at the direction of the user. Likewise the cloud application can be configured to prompt the user to update or modify the selections at time periods specified by the user or the cloud application .

Processor also communicates with the cloud application to execute control logic and allow access to the user controlled resources as described above and below. For example the cloud application can operate in conjunction with OS to allow a user to select a particular set of resources and to grant the cloud access to the particular set of resources. Other configurations of the user controlled resources associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

While illustrates the user controlled resources as a standalone system including a combination of hardware and software the user controlled resources can include multiple system operating in cooperation. The cloud application can be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by the user controlled resources as illustrated or other conventional computer platforms. Likewise the cloud application can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the cloud application can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language.

Additionally as illustrated in the cloud application can communicate with one cloud to provide user controlled resources to the cloud . Likewise the cloud application can be configured to communicate with multiple clouds to provide the particular set of resources to the multiple clouds or to provide a particular set of resources to each of the multiple clouds.

In the user can select a particular set of resources of the user controlled resources to make available to the cloud . The cloud application can generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by the cloud application to provide an interface for the user to select the particular set of resources to make available to the cloud . For example the cloud application can include in the interface the resources that are available and the cloud application can allow the user to select the set of resources from the available resources. The cloud application can receive the selection once made. In the cloud application can store the selected set of resources in the access control record .

In the cloud application can send an indication of the selected resources to the cloud . The indication can be an amount of resources available to the cloud such as available memory processing cycles bandwidth storage and the like. The cloud application can determine the amount of resources from the selected set of resources. The cloud application can send the indication via network .

In the cloud application can receive a request for access to the set of resources. The cloud application can receive the request via network . The request can include the amount of resources desired as well as the particular process to be performed application appliance virtual machine and the like by the user controlled resources .

In the cloud application can identify the set of resources that are available to the cloud . The cloud application can access the access control record in order to identify the set of resources available. For example the cloud application can identify the particular set of hardware and software resources allowed. Likewise the cloud application can identify if the cloud or and the cloud processes can access the set of resources.

In the cloud application can grant access to the set of resources to the cloud . For example the cloud application can be configured to communicate with the hardware and software resources to grant direct access to the set of resources to the cloud for instance via TCP IP FTP or other protocols or channels. Likewise the cloud application can be configured to receive the processes to be performed on the user controlled resources and to instantiate the processes on the set of resources.

In the cloud application can allow the user to change the set of resources accessible by the cloud the clouds allowed to access the resources and or the processes allowed to access the resources optionally at the user s direction or at specified time periods. The cloud application can generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by the cloud application to provide an interface for the user to modify the particular set of resources to make available to the cloud .

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

