---

title: Active call processing and notifications
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems, as well as software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces, and more particularly, to processing active calls and stored calls in a communication network for packetized and/or synchronous communications, and to generating notifications relating to active calls and stored calls. Other embodiments relate to creating and implementing bypass rules that allow a party to bypass a set of default prompts to a the party's communication device while enabling the caller device to access functions of a call processing system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313328&OS=09313328&RS=09313328
owner: RingCentral, Inc.
number: 09313328
owner_city: Belmont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080919
---
This application claims the benefit U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 995 835 entitled ACTIVE CALL PROCESSING AND NOTIFICATIONS and filed on Sep. 28 2007 which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems as well as software computer programs applications and user interfaces and more particularly to processing active calls in relation to a communication network for packetized and or synchronous communications and to generating notifications relating to at least active calls.

While traditional techniques for processing electronic messages and calls are functional there are certain drawbacks to these techniques. For example callers in emergency situations or otherwise placing a priority call that merits special treatment may be faced with obstacles to completing their calls such as default system rules and or customized rules for call handling and routing. These rules may require the caller for example to respond to prompts that delay connecting the call. Alternatively or additionally such rules may route the call in a manner that delays its completion with the desired person or device. Moreover once a call is placed the call may not be completed for a variety of reasons. It may be advantageous to maintain the incomplete call as active so that it can be completed subsequently by the intended callee more efficaciously than if the caller were to have to make the call again.

It would be desirable to provide computing devices and systems as well as software computer programs applications and user interfaces that minimize one or more of the drawbacks associated with the conventional techniques for processing calls in communication network for packetized and or synchronous communications. In particular it would be advantageous to have technology that allows a caller to bypass default and or customized rules for call handling in order to avoid the resultant delay in connecting the call. It further would be advantageous to have technology that allows holding an active call in waiting to allow the original called party to respond to the caller rather than having the calling system drop the incomplete call and require the caller to re dial.

Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. Note that most of the reference numerals include one or two left most digits that generally identify the figure that first introduces that reference number.

Active call controller can be configured to control aspects of inbound call as an active call. The term active call can refer at least in one embodiment to any call that is in progress i.e. at least caller device has initiated the call . For example active call controller can provide caller device with an announcement regarding the status of the call e.g. the caller is being recorded as well as selections provided by for example an active call controller . Such a selection can be provided in a menu like format either audibly or visually. Notification controller can be configured to identify triggering events that can generate a notification and to deliver the notification in a variety of ways.

Call processing system is coupled to a repository media files that is configured to store media files a repository auto attendant policies that is configured to maintain sets of rules to modify either the behavior of active call controller operating at least in part as auto attendant server or the selections provided by active call controller in a menu format e.g. to present a selection that provides for an option that enables if selected a caller to receive information via an electronic facsimile or both. Call processing system is also shown to be coupled to a repository notification rules configured to maintain sets of rules to modify the triggering events that generate a notification and to select a mode of delivery for the notification.

Repository is shown to include an announcement media file an auto attendant prompts media file and a voicemail prompts media file . Active call controller can interact with announcement media file to for example play an announcement to one or more participating endpoints such as caller when call recording or any other call processing functions are enabled or disabled. In one embodiment active call controller can include the functionality of a media server or a portion thereof . The announcements can be directed to one or more participating endpoints and can explain how to enable or disable features. In at least one embodiment active call controller can be configured to record active calls for later review for security and performance improvement reasons for instance. A system administrator at computing device or a user at callee device can enable or disable call recording using any input device including a web portal a softphone client any other client application text messaging or dual tone multi frequency DTMF inputs into a phone the DTMF commonly being known as keypad dial tones. In one embodiment call processing system can accept an authorization code that if verified against provisioned allowed authorization codes or PINs can enable or disable call recording from any endpoint e.g. at callee device . Optionally call recording can be implemented without the knowledge of the other participating call endpoints e.g. caller device . Call processing system can detect DTMF sounds that constitute an authorization code. Active call controller can implement an auto attendant e.g. server to provide one or more menus having auto attendant prompts from media file that provide audio or visual selections for soliciting inputs from for example caller device . Further active call controller can implement voicemail prompts media file to manage the handling of voice messages.

In various embodiments active call controller can be implemented as or in connection with auto attendant server . As such active call controller can use auto attendant policies in repository to process calls. Repository is shown to include alternate response rules call processing customization rules and bypass rules . Active call controller can provide auto attendant options in a menu format so that caller device can be presented with an option to receive an electronic facsimile fax that describes call processing options or any other information. As such active call controller can use rules that define an alternate delivery mode by which to send response to complete a request for information by caller device . For example caller device can elect to receive a reply via fax. As such a menu option can prompt caller device to select one of a number of company promotions. In one embodiment if caller device selects this menu option then call processing system can verify the caller ID and optionally prompt caller device to provide an authorization code e.g. a personal identification number PIN . If call processing system validates the caller identification then call processing system can prompt for caller device to select one of a number of delivery modes which can include an electronic facsimile. Thus caller device can provide a fax number an email name an audio telephone number or a unified messaging box for receiving response .

In one embodiment active call controller can be configured to modify calling rules in accordance with a rule set in repository . For example active call controller can cooperate with rule set to enable active call controller to generate an auto attendant menu for presentation at caller device whereby the presentation of the auto attendant menu can be customized to include a specific subset of selections. Note that the customization of an auto attendant menu can be a function of the identity of caller device . And the selections of the auto attendant menu can modify how call processing system handles missed calls call logs and access to account settings. In turn active call controller can facilitate 1 editing of routing rules 2 making a call with a new caller ID 3 calling out from another location among other things. In one embodiment the menu can prompt for and verify a caller PIN password or any other caller identification before granting access to the calling rules. In one instance active call controller can present a subset of menu selections as a function of a recognized inbound caller ID PIN or other caller identification.

In at least one embodiment active call controller can be configured to bypass or override a set of default prompts that active call controller might otherwise provide by way of auto attendant menus or by way of voice mail access menus or the like. In operation active call controller can access bypass rules in repository to determine when to bypass the set of default prompts. To illustrate consider that call processing system can generate default prompts to determine the identity of a caller at caller device . These default prompts can be bypassed in accordance to rules . As such if call processing system implements voice recognition to identify a caller at caller device then active call controller can route inbound call to for example a special features menu or to a voice mail menu while bypassing other default prompts. Alternatively the call can go through directly to the called party if the bypass rules are configured to recognize a particular telephone number and or other call attributes. This latter option can be particularly useful for example to have a called party call back a calling party for example in an emergency situation possibly where a caller has dialed 911 or for a high priority return call. In one embodiment a call from a first communication device is made to 911 passing through the call processing system but the call does not go through to completion. The bypass rules are configured to recognize when a call is being made from a 911 operator in this case by recognizing the return caller s number and thus to allow the 911 operator to call back the original caller without having to respond to default or other customized prompts. Instead the 911 return call connects directly with the original caller. In a further embodiment an active call that is either completed or not completed need not be disconnected Instead the active call can be put in waiting i.e. parked at a media server of the call processing system while the called party calls the original calling party whose call remains active at the media server . For instance the call from the party above who dialed 911 and was disconnected would not be disconnected in this embodiment. Rather the call would wait at the media server for the 911 operator to call back and the return call would be bridged by the media server . In a further embodiment the active call waiting at the media server can be bridged not only to the original called party but other parties also could join the bridged call.

Response also can include commands that specifically enable a caller to bypass usual system prompts during an active call. A system administrator at computing device or a user at callee device caller device can enable or disable the application of bypass rules using any input device including a web portal a softphone client any other client application text messaging or dual tone multi frequency DTMF inputs into a phone DTMF commonly refers to keypad dial tones . As such active call controller can provide a short least cost path while enabling a caller device to access the functions of call processing system .

In various embodiments notification controller can generate notifications and can control how those notifications are delivered in accordance with the notification rules in repository . Repository is shown to include alert notification rules notification trigger rules and notification delivery rules . A system administrator at computing device or a user at callee device caller device can modify one or more of these rules. In one embodiment a notification controller can be configured to send an alert such as a pager announcement or any other type of alert to a responsible entity such as a company supervisor. Such a notification implies that a responsible entity should monitor inbound call . In this case notification controller can use alert notification rules . In another embodiment notification controller can use notification trigger rules to determine whether to generate a notification. Triggering events include the existence of any of the following as discussed above an active call a parked call a missed inbound call and recorded voicemail messages. In still another embodiment notification controller can use notification delivery rules to determine how to deliver a notification. In one case notification delivery rules can specify the device or protocol by which to send a notification such as via telephone email pager HTML MIME or any other messaging system or device. In another case a user can enable no notifications or the user can enable one or more notifications which can be a function of a caller ID or message type. For example if notification delivery rules specify that a message type parked call should generate a notification then notification controller can do so. In still yet another case consider that notification delivery rules specify different delivery options based on whether a callee is present such as at a computer on a telephone from an event calendar or other activity information prior to sending a notification. In response to these rules notification controller can modify the delivery of the notification to select an optimal process by which to find and notify the user. For example notification delivery rules might specify that a notification should be sent to a mobile phone first a landline second and a pager third.

In one embodiment notification controller can apply both system default and user configured policies as set forth in notification delivery rules to deliver a notification to a user prior to the forwarding or transferring of a call to the user. Then notification controller can provide options to filter and screen callers prior to ringing or before answering the forwarded or transferred call. In at least one embodiment notification controller can send notifications e.g. periodically until the user is determined to be present at callee device for example. Or notification controller can send the notifications until either the user acknowledges the notification or until the triggering event is removed. For example when a parked or incoming call is answered then the notification can cease. Or the notification can stop when a corresponding voice mail is retrieved. A notification can be customized by a user to include preferred notification fields such as the name of the caller caller ID date and time of the call. The user can select a language in which to receive a notification. In other examples notification rules can default to business hours or can be configured by a system administrator or a user to provide notifications during a defined schedule thereby ignoring or to escalating notification during other schedules.

Note that network can include packet networks and switched networks as well as any other suitable communications network. For example private and or public internet and switching networks can be used such as IP networks including protocols TCP UDP HTTP etc. and switched networks including public switched telephone networks PSTN or the like as well as cellular short message service SMS and other wireless networks. 

Call processing system can also include one or more configuration tools including a Web Server to configure the rules for filtering announcing routing and completing calls. A computing device as a system administrator or an authorized user can configure web server to modify call action rules stored for example in repositories and . As such computing device and or web server can maintain a Database or any other storage mechanism for storing system administrator rules and or end user defined rules. Examples of some tools that support inbound call processing and notification include client applications such as contact management appointment and calendar systems any of which can be found in for example an email program.

Database can store call history information for each inbound call including active call identifiers e.g. caller IDs to receive call status and send active call commands. For example database can maintain data representing a first party calling ID ANI a type of endpoint associated with the first calling party such as a PSTN phone a second destination endpoint DNIS a result code e.g. indicating a recipient status if the call was connected or not connected and the result of each prior call e.g. whether the previous call history includes no answers to callee device of . Database can also be configured to retain customer credit information satisfaction information and other customer profile information associated with each inbound caller ID. Database also can store call transfer conferencing recording and customer feedback information.

Call processing system can facilitate call processing with audio menu prompts stored in for example media server and in accordance with a set of policies. Each inbound call can be identified using inbound caller ID caller name stored contact and caller history information. When identified the inbound call processing policies can be customized for a specific active call. Database can store call recordings and audio menu options. Call Router and Media Server can access Database for accessing rules to re route calls for example to the media server for recording or for other purposes for example to keep an active call active and waiting at the media server awaiting a called party to respond join the caller and to dynamically create customer audio menus depending upon the detected call participants and the call context such as Press 1 to talk to have a private conversation with party etc. . Each user or a system administrator at computing device can allow or disallow a call to barge in by interrupting an ongoing call to talk to one of the current call endpoints. As another option as determined from the caller parameters and assigned priority call processing system can add a call to an existing conference call.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown throughout as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements.

In some examples logic module can be configured to control panel generator to form a call management system configured to present active call processing and notification generation options to for example provide for customizable active call control and notification of calls. Rendering engine can be configured to operate as a layout engine for web pages for example to manipulate both content e.g. as expressed in or including HTML XML image files etc. and formatting information e.g. as expressed in or including CSS XSL etc. for rendering the data or information as one or more panels on interface . Interface module can exchange panel presentation data including content data image data audio data as well as other data between application and another application e.g. a host client web services based distributed i.e. enterprise application programming interface API operating system program procedure or others that can use data and information generated from panel generator to render presented panels on a display screen. In other examples the above described techniques and elements can be varied in design implementation and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided. In one embodiment logic module can include call processing module that is configured to include structure and or functionality similar to one or more previously described communication call processing systems and or components thereof. For example logic module can also include an active call controller AC Cont module and a notification Notif controller module both of which can be configured to be accessed via an interface. For example active call controller module can be configured to control aspects of an active call and notification controller module configured to detect triggering events that generate a notification and to select a mode of delivery for the notification.

In some examples logic module and panel generator can be implemented as part of application which can be implemented separately from other functional components or modules such as interface module display module rendering module and repository . Data bus can be implemented to communicate data over a given port between application and interface module display module rendering module and repository . In some instances application can be implemented as a standalone application or as a component i.e. module of another application. Data or information e.g. content or file data including data representing media files auto attendant policies notification rules and the like associated with a panel can be stored in repository which can be implemented using a database data store data warehouse or any other type of data repository or structure. In other examples more fewer or different modules can be used to implement the described techniques for panel presentation and are not limited to those provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations in which processor executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown system memory includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system O S an application and a call processing module which in turn can implement an active call controller AC Controller module and a notification controller module to provide the functionalities described herein.

The terms computer readable medium and computer readable media refer at least in one embodiment to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium or media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of electromagnetic acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. links to LAN PSTN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program code i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment system or a portion thereof can be implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device.

In the example shown system memory can include modules of executable instructions for implementing a call processing system CPS transceiver module that is configured to communicate with call processing systems described herein. Further system memory can include an out of band communication module that is configured to convey notifications and or menu options e.g. to record the call transfer the call and generate a notification play menu prompts etc. regarding a call with a caller device e.g. caller device of . In one embodiment system or a portion thereof can be implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device. To illustrate operation consider that system can be implemented in a mobile phone as a caller device as described herein. Thus system can use out of band communication module to receive and transmit data relating to notifications and or menu options and use digital transmission cellular circuitry e.g. communication interface to transmit active call data and notification data of system along with or separate from e.g. in parallel or in series call data sent over any of the multiple networks including IP and digital cellular networks.

In some examples one or more panels for inbound call management and or call communication e.g. using interface for connecting calls sending electronic messages etc. can be presented on interface which can be an interface for an application such as a video and audio editing application or as a web browsing program Internet content portal client or desktop application for any purpose. Panels can be used to provide additional or supplemental information that can be contextually relevant to another panel presented in interface . Computer notebook computer notebook or laptop smart phone personal digital assistant PDA server and administrator computer can provide content data for rendering content as well as other data which can be implemented to generate for example user inputs configured to accept data to modify call routing and to answer and make phone calls. In some cases an operating system installed on computer can communicate i.e. via an application programming interface API content data and or other related data to another application installed on computer to render i.e. interpreting data and information to draw or display the content in an interface one or more panels presented in interface . In some examples different types of panels can be rendered in interface . In one embodiment interface can include any number and or any type of display environments such as CRT and LCD displays. Note that the above described system and elements can be varied and are not limited to the descriptions or examples provided.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown in as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Fireworks Java Javascript AJAX COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.

Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed many alternatives modifications equivalents and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention rather any specific embodiment can provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims elements and or operations do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

