---

title: NSMS flight laser detector system
abstract: A method includes rotating a rotor, measuring a rotor rotational time for the rotor to complete a revolution, determining a blade interval by dividing the rotor rotational time by a number of blades carried on the rotor, establishing an active hold-off time interval as a percentage of the blade interval time, directing a beam of light at the blades of the rotor using a laser, sensing light reflected from the blades, generating an output signal as a function of the sensed light, establishing a signal amplitude threshold, analyzing an amplitude of the output signal to trigger the active hold-off time interval when the amplitude reaches the signal amplitude threshold, and generating a blade arrival signal as a function of triggered active hold-off time intervals. The output signal is not analyzed within each active hold-off time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07984656&OS=07984656&RS=07984656
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07984656
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080724
---
The present invention was developed at least in part under Contract No. N000019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Air Force. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is related to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 220 421 entitled NSMS Flight Laser Detector Cooling System filed on even date herewith which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to non interference stress measurement systems NSMSs for use with gas turbine engines.

Non interference stress measurement systems NSMSs are known for collecting structural data about gas turbine engine components e.g. using blade vibration measurements correlated to blade stress that is used in turn for engine design purposes and for engine certification processes. Typically these NSMSs have been configured for test stand applications. In other words these NSMSs have been configured to gather data from prototype or other non airframe mounted gas turbine engines in a test facility. These systems utilize sensors to measure stress in engine components and relay those signals to ground based electronics that process the data. Generally these known NSMSs have utilized large component cabinets located on the ground and linked to sensors on a test engine through fiber optic cable. An operator on the ground must calibrate and coordinate operation of these NSMSs. For instance operators can manually set a hold off period for sensed vibration data that remains fixed for a given test procedure absent any further manual adjustments made by the operator to that fixed period. Operator involvement can decrease the accuracy and repeatability of NSMS measurements due to human error.

In some circumstances it is desirable or necessary to collect in flight engine structural data while an engine is mounted to an airframe. However known NSMSs generally cannot function in such in flight situations. Furthermore known systems are large and heavy and cannot be readily mounted to an airframe for in flight operation and require a human operator.

A method includes rotating a rotor measuring a rotor rotational time for the rotor to complete a revolution determining a blade interval by dividing the rotor rotational time by a number of blades carried on the rotor establishing an active hold off time interval as a percentage of the blade interval time directing a beam of light at the blades of the rotor using a laser sensing light reflected from the blades generating an output signal as a function of the sensed light establishing a signal amplitude threshold analyzing an amplitude of the output signal to trigger the active hold off time interval when the amplitude reaches the signal amplitude threshold and generating a blade arrival signal as a function of triggered active hold off time intervals. The output signal is not analyzed within each active hold off time interval.

The present invention provides a non interference stress measurement system NSMS and associated control method for collecting structural data about moving parts such as rotating gas turbine engine components e.g. using blade vibration measurement correlated to blade stress . The present invention allows structural data to be collected from an engine mounted to an airframe while in flight. The NSMS can include circuitry for automatically analyzing data in an active dynamic fashion while in flight which can increase precision and repeatability of measured data.

In operation the NSMS can gather data from rotating components such as fan blades mounted on a rotor of a gas turbine engine in turn mounted to an airframe and that data can be gathered while the airframe is in flight. A 1 REV input is received from a sensor e.g. a magnetic sensor configured to sense a flag on one of the fan blades and is sent to the timer circuitry of the microcontroller via the speed signal conditioning circuitry in order to determine a time for the rotating component to complete a single revolution. When testing a known number of rotating fan blades the rotational time is divided by the number of fan blades in order to determine a blade interval time.

A power level supplied to the laser by the laser driver can be automatically adjusted during operation and adjusted independently for each laser in the NSMS . The optical detector circuitry sends information to the microcontroller via the peak signal detection circuitry and the noise floor detection circuitry which can determine a power level at which the laser operates as explained further below.

Additionally the laser directs a beam of light to a probe that focuses the beam of light toward the rotating fan blades which is then reflected off the fan blades and collected by an optical receiver that transmits the light to the optical detector to be sensed. Optical fiber cables can connect the laser to the probe as well as the optical receiver to the optical detector for transmitting light to and from a location of the fan blades to a remote location where other NSMS components are located. An analog output signal e.g. a voltage signal is then generated by the optical detector circuitry which is sent to the microcontroller via the peak signal detection circuitry and the noise floor detection circuitry and also to the comparator circuit . The microcontroller analyzes the output signal and determines a trigger threshold as a function of information from the noise floor detection circuitry which associates an amplitude of the output signal with an arrival of a fan blade as explained further below. The comparator circuit analyzes the output signal compared to the trigger threshold to determine the arrival of each fan blade. A square wave digital blade arrival signal e.g. a TTL signal indicating the arrival of each fan blade as determined by the comparator circuit is then generated by the comparator circuit and the TTL line driver and sent to the flight recorder for storage. The stored information on the flight recorder can be retrieved subsequent to in flight testing. The analog output signal need not be stored which can allow only analytical results to be stored taking up far less memory than the storage of raw data for later analysis. The blade arrival signal or TTL signal can be used to measure blade vibration over time and through comparison of data collected over time for a given fan blade at different circumferential locations e.g. using sensors at different circumferential locations fan blade stress levels can be assessed.

An active hold off period can be triggered upon detection of the arrival of a fan blade that is when the output signal amplitude crosses the trigger threshold. The active hold off period can be a time period of approximately 60 90 of the blade interval time such as 87.5 of the blade interval time. In this way the exact length of time comprising the active hold off period can vary as a function of the 1 REV input for each revolution of the rotor carrying the fan blades which in turn is a function of engine speed making this an active dynamic and automated determination rather than a passive one time and or manual determination. During the active hold off period the output signal need not be analyzed in effect allowing sensed optical data following the arrival of a given fan blade to be ignored until a time shortly before the arrival of an adjacent fan blade is expected. The active hold off period helps reduce a risk of data errors by reducing a risk of a waveform artifacts e.g. a random spike in output signal amplitude being confused with a blade arrival. For instance light reflected off trailing edge portions of the fan blades can essentially be ignored thereby reducing a risk of that trailing edge being confused with the arrival of the leading edge of the next fan blade. In prior art NSMSs which were more like supervisory systems than analyzer systems hold off periods were set manually by a human operator using ground based equipment on generally a one time basis and the hold off period was subject to operator induced variation.

The blade arrival signal can be generated as a function of the trigger threshold which initiates the active hold off period. For instance the blade arrival signal can be latched to a high state upon triggering of an active hold off period then reset by command of the microcontroller to a low state upon the completion of the active hold off period.

The NSMS can also include a cooling system. Further details of the operation of the NSMS as found in the commonly assigned U.S. patent application entitled NSMS Flight Laser Detector Cooling System filed on even date herewith which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A beam of light generated by a laser is directed by way of the probe at the rotating fan blades step . Multiple beams of light are generated in embodiments where the NSMS includes a plurality of lasers . Each beam of light is then sensed by a corresponding optical detector by way of the optical receiver as the light reflects off the rotating fan blades step . During operation e.g. approximately every ten seconds the NSMS can adjust a power level of the laser step . A power level supplied to the laser by the laser driver can be automatically adjusted during operation and adjusted independently for each laser in the NSMS . The laser power can be initially set at a specified level e.g. approximately 20 of full power . After two revolutions of the rotor for example the peak signal detection circuitry measures a reflected peak signal from the blade and the laser power level is increased as necessary until the peak signal reaches a specified range e.g. between approximately 3.7 to 4 volts . This procedure helps to account for the numerous variables that affect the amount of reflected energy sensed by the optical detector for a given laser power setting.

The optical detector circuit generates an analog output signal as a function of reflected light sensed by the optical detector step . The microcontroller analyzes the output signal and determines a trigger threshold as a function of information from the noise floor detection circuitry step . The trigger threshold associates an amplitude of the analog output signal with an arrival of a fan blade. In one embodiment the NSMS can be configured to associate noise floor ranges with particular trigger threshold levels e.g. using a lookup table . For example a noise floor below approximately 100 mV can be associated with a trigger threshold level of approximately 0.6 V a noise floor within a range of approximately 100 mV to 300 mV can be associated with a trigger threshold level of approximately 0.7 V a noise floor within a range of approximately 300 mV to 500 mV can be associated with a trigger threshold level of approximately 0.8 V a noise floor within a range of approximately 500 mV to 700 mV can be associated with a trigger threshold level of approximately 0.9 V and a noise floor within a range of approximately 700 mV to 900 mV can be associated with a trigger threshold level of approximately 1.0 V.

The comparator circuit analyzes the output signal compared to the trigger threshold to determine the arrival of each fan blade step . A decision is made as to when an amplitude of the output signal crosses the trigger threshold step . If the amplitude of the output signal is below the trigger threshold arrival of a fan blade has not yet occurred and analysis of the output signal continues. If the amplitude of the output signal reaches or surpasses the trigger threshold then arrival of a fan blade is detected.

An active hold off time is calculated as a function of the blade interval time previously determined at step step . The active hold off time can be a time period of approximately 60 90 of the blade interval time such as 87.5 of the blade interval time. In this way as discussed above the exact length of time comprising the active hold off period can vary as a function of the 1 REV input for each revolution of the rotor carrying the fan blades which in turn is a function of engine speed. When the output signal is determined to meet or exceed the trigger threshold at step the active hold off time period is triggered step . In other words triggering the active hold off time period substantially coincides with fan blade arrival.

A digital fan blade arrival signal is then generated by the comparator circuit and the TTL line driver as a function of the trigger threshold which initiates the active hold off period step . For instance the blade arrival signal can be latched to a high state e.g. one upon triggering of an active hold off period then reset by command of the microcontroller to a low state e.g. zero upon the completion of the active hold off period. Time stamped events indicated by the blade arrival signal can then be stored by the flight recorder step . For instance blade arrivals corresponding to a transition of the blade arrival signal from a low state to a high state which corresponds to the triggering of an active hold off period.

A determination can then be made as to whether additional data is to be collected step such as with a record enable switch controllable by a pilot. If not that is if testing is complete then the process can end. If additional data collection is sought then the process described above can repeat as the rotor continues to rotate at step . The blade arrival signal can then be analyzed in a conventional manner to assess variations in blade arrivals at various circumferential locations associated with NSMS sensing locations in order to assess fan blade vibration and stress.

As discussed above the trigger threshold can be established at a particular voltage level as a function of a noise floor of the output signal . The arrivals of fan blades are indicated at points A C where the output signal crosses the trigger threshold . The output signal generally crosses the trigger threshold at or near the time when a leading edge of the fan blade passes the sensors of the NSMS . When a given blade arrival occurs at points A C a corresponding active hold off time period A C is triggered. Each active hold off time period can have duration established as a function of blade interval time as discussed above. The active hold off time period reduces a risk of error in detecting blade arrivals. For instance light reflected off a given blade may produce unexpected variations in amplitude of the output signal meaning that a given fan blade might undesirably trigger the detection of multiple arrivals. To lessen that risk the active hold off time periods A C allow portions of the output signal to effectively be skipped over with analysis of the output signal for fan blade arrive resumed shortly before the next arrival is expected based upon the blade interval time .

The blade arrival signal can be generated as a function of reaching the trigger threshold which initiates the active hold off periods A C. For instance the blade arrival signal can be latched to a high state e.g. one value upon triggering of an active hold off period at points A C then reset by command of the microcontroller to a low state e.g. zero value upon the completion of the active hold off periods A C. The blade arrival signal can therefore be represented as a square wave with the triggering of the high state corresponding to the triggering of the active hold off periods A C and the arrival of fan blades at points A C which are time stamped and stored by the flight recorder . Use of the blade arrival signal allows at least partially analyzed data to be stored rather than merely raw data stored for later analysis. This allows a savings in memory requirements over storage of the output signal as well as savings in data processing burdens. These features facilitate data collection and analysis during in flight testing.

It will be recognized that the present invention provides numerous advantages. For example the present invention can allow NSMS data collection during in flight conditions. Moreover control of NSMS data collection can be further automated over prior art systems that utilized hold off periods set manually by a human operator using ground based equipment on generally a one time basis thereby increasing precision and reducing operator induced variation. More particularly hold off times can be determined actively and correlated with variable engine speeds and trigger thresholds can be determined actively based upon empirically determined noise levels of sensed data.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance the methods of the present invention can be applied to nearly any rotating parts and are not limited to testing fan blades.

