---

title: Display device detection of and response to an idle mode of a remote sender device
abstract: A method, system and apparatus provide for detection by a display device of an idle mode of a remote sender device. Information received from a remote sender device by a display device is monitored during a normal operating mode of operation of the display device to determine whether the remote sender device is not providing primary content for display by the display device, such as might occur during a sleep or idle mode of the remote sender device. If the display device determines that primary content is not being provided by the remote sender device, then the display device acquires alternate content that may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08555326&OS=08555326&RS=08555326
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08555326
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080513
---
Many remote sender devices such as satellite cable or IPTV set top boxes computers laptops etc. responsible for sending content for display on a display device such as a television or monitor will not actually shut off while not in use. They often will instead cause a screen saver to be displayed or blank the screen. The screen saver may be nothing more than an Icon of the service that moves about the screen. They may also be text displayed to a viewer instructing them to press select or take another action in order to resume watching content.

In addition to such screen savers being wasteful of energy they can also be inefficient as far as wasting an opportunity to present the viewer with information that might be considered useful or interesting.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an example of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments shown and described. In the description below like reference numerals are used to describe the same similar or corresponding parts in the several views of the drawings.

In this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

Reference throughout this document to one embodiment certain embodiments an embodiment or similar terms means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of such phrases or in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments without limitation.

The term or as used herein is to be interpreted as an inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C means any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C . An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions described herein. The non processor circuits may include but are not limited to a radio receiver a radio transmitter signal drivers clock circuits power source circuits user input devices and broadcast receivers such as televisions. As such these functions may be interpreted as a method to perform functions such as acquisition of a new policy in accordance with certain embodiments consistent with the present invention. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus methods and means for these functions have been described herein. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.

A method system and structure provides for a display device such as a television TV monitor or the like to be able to determine when information being provided to it is not primary content such as might occur for instance when a remote sender device such as a set top box STB that normally provides primary content or programming to the display device for display stops doing so upon going into an idle or sleep mode. Whereas detection by the display device of an idle mode of the remote sender device might normally trigger the display device to simply display a screen saver embodiments presented herein provide for the display device subsequent to detection of no primary content from the remote device to display alternate content during an alternate display mode of the display device. Alternately upon detection of an idle mode of a remote sender device the display device may switch off or disable its display element i.e. TV screen in order to save power.

Such alternate content may be stored internally in the display device such as cached programming resident in memory of the display device or it may be acquired even in real time from another source remote the display device. For example the display device may receive alternate content from a second remote sender device such as a lap top or computer or streaming data from the Internet over an Ethernet connection received in real time. Moreover alternate content itself may be advertising advertisements as in the form of text videos icons audio etc.

Display of the alternate content may replace display of a screen saver by the display device or it may be in addition to display of a screen saver. As described herein certain embodiments provide for display of alternate content overlaid a screen saver and the alternate content may assume a transparent form in which the underlying screen saver is still visible to the viewer. Also the display device may additionally provide an indication to a viewer or user that the remote sender device is in an idle mode in combination with whatever form the alternate content is to be displayed.

Referring to of the drawings a block diagram for an exemplary interactive cable or satellite television TV system is shown. The system includes at a head end of the service provider a media server for providing on demand movies and other programming obtained from a media database . The media server might also provide additional content such as interviews with the actors games advertisements available merchandise associated Web pages interactive games and other related content. The system also includes an electronic programming guide EPG server and a program listing database for generating an EPG. Set top box can generally provide for bidirectional communication over a transmission medium in the case of a cable STB . In other embodiments bidirectional communication can be effected using asymmetrical communication techniques possibly using dual communication media one for the uplink and one for the downlink. In any event the STB can have its own Universal Resource Locator URL or IP address or other unique identifier assigned thereto to provide for addressability by the head end and users of the Internet.

The media server and EPG server are operatively coupled by transmission medium to a set top box STB . The transmission medium may include for example a conventional coaxial cable network a fiber optic cable network telephone system twisted pair a satellite communication system a radio frequency RF system a microwave system other wireless systems a combination of wired and wireless systems or any of a variety of known electronic transmission mediums. In the case of a cable television network transmission medium is commonly realized at the subscriber s premises as a coaxial cable that is connected to a suitable cable connector at the rear panel of the STB . In the case of a Direct Satellite System DSS the STB is often referred to as an Integrated Receiver Decoder IRD . In the case of a DSS system the transmission medium is a satellite transmission at an appropriate microwave band. Such transmissions are typically received by a satellite dish antenna with an integral Low Noise Block LNB that serves as a down converter to convert the signal to a lower frequency for processing by the STB .

The exemplary system further includes a TV such as a digital television having a display for displaying programming an EPG etc. The STB may be coupled to the TV and various other audio visual devices such as audio systems Personal Video Recorders PVRs Video Tape Recorders VTRs Video Cassette Recorders VCRs and the like storage devices e.g. hard disc drives and Internet Appliances such as email devices home appliances storage devices network devices and other Internet Enabled Appliances by an appropriate interface which can be any suitable analog or digital interface. In one embodiment interface conforms to an interface standard such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 standard but could also be wholly or partially supported by a Digital Visual Interface DVI High Definition Media Interface HDMI Ethernet. 4 or 60 giga Hertz wireless or other suitable interface.

The STB may include a central processing unit CPU such as a microprocessor and memory such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory mass storage such as a hard disc drive floppy disc drive optical disc drive or may accommodate other electronic storage media etc. Such memory and storage media is suitable for storing data as well as instructions for programmed processes for execution on the CPU as will be discussed later. Information and programs stored on the electronic storage media or memory may also be transported over any suitable transmission medium such as that illustrated as . STB may include circuitry suitable for audio decoding and processing the decoding of video data compressed in accordance with a compression standard such as the Motion Pictures Experts Group MPEG standard and other processing to form a controller or central hub. Alternatively components of the STB may be incorporated into the TV itself thus eliminating the STB . Further a computer having a tuner device and modem may be equivalently substituted for the TV and STB .

By way of example the STB may be coupled to devices such as a personal computer video cassette recorder camcorder digital camera personal digital assistant and other audio visual or Internet related devices. In addition a data transport architecture such as the Home Audio Video Interoperability HAVi architecture may be utilized to enable interoperability among devices on a network regardless of the manufacturer of the device. This forms a home network system wherein electronic devices and Internet appliances are compatible with each other. The STB runs an operating system suitable for a home network system.

The STB includes an infrared IR receiver for receiving IR signals from an input device such as remote control or commander . Alternatively it is noted that many other control communication methods may be utilized besides IR such as wired or wireless radio frequency etc. In addition it can be readily appreciated that the input device may be any device suitable for controlling the STB such as a remote control or commander personal digital assistant laptop computer keyboard or computer mouse. In addition an input device in the form of a control panel located on the TV or the STB can be provided.

The STB may also be coupled to an independent service provider ISP host by a suitable connection including dial up connections DSL Digital Subscriber Line or the same transmission medium described above e.g. using a cable modem to thus provide access to services and content from the ISP and the Internet. The ISP host provides various content to the user that is obtained from a content database . STB may also be used as an Internet access device to obtain information and content from remote servers such as remote server via the Internet using host operating as an Internet portal for example. In certain satellite STB environments the data can be downloaded at very high speed from a satellite link with asymmetrical upload speed from the set top box provided via a dial up or DSL connection.

While the arrangement illustrated in shows a plurality of servers and databases depicted as independent devices any one or more of the servers can operate as server software residing on a single computer. Moreover although not explicitly illustrated the servers may operate in a coordinated manner under centralized or distributed control to provide multiple services as a Multiple Service Operator MSO in a known manner. Additionally the services provided by the servers shown in may actually reside in other locations but from the perspective of the user of STB the service provider serves as a portal to the services shown. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustration of represents a simplified depiction of a cable system configuration shown simply as service provider . The actual configuration of the service provider s equipment is more likely to follow a configuration defined by the CableLabs OpenCable specification. The simplified illustration shown is intended to simplify the discussion of the service provider s operation without unnecessarily burdening the discussion with architectural details that will be evident to those skilled in the art. Those details can be found in the publicly available CableLabs OpenCable specification or in the text OpenCable Architecture Fundamentals by Michael Adams Cisco Press November 1999.

Referring now to a typical system configuration for a digital set top box is illustrated. In this exemplary set top box the transmission medium such as a coaxial cable is coupled by a suitable interface through a diplexer to an in band tuner . Tuner may for example include a broadcast in band tuner for receiving video content. An out of band OOB tuner is provided for receiving data transmissions including ATM formatted SI data. A return path through diplexer provides an OOB return path for outbound data destined for example for the head end . A separate tuner not shown may be provided to receive conventional RF broadcast television channels. Modulated information formatted for example as MPEG 2 information is then demodulated at a demodulator . The demodulated information at the output of demodulator is provided to a demultiplexer and descrambler circuit where the information is separated into discrete channels of programming. The programming is divided into packets each packet bearing an identifier called a Packet ID PID that identifies the packet as containing a particular type of data e.g. audio video data . The demodulator and descrambler circuit also decrypts encrypted information in accordance with a decryption algorithm to prevent unauthorized access to programming content for example.

Audio packets from the demultiplexer those identified with an audio PID are decrypted and forwarded to an audio decoder where they may be converted to analog audio to drive a speaker system e.g. stereo or home theater multiple channel audio systems or other audio system e.g. stereo or home theater multiple channel amplifier and speaker systems or may simply provide decoded audio out at . Video packets from the demultiplexer those identified with a video PID are decrypted and forwarded to a video decoder . In a similar manner data packets from the demultiplexer those identified with a data PID are decrypted and forwarded to a data decoder .

Decoded data packets from data decoder are sent to the set top box s computer system via the system bus . A central processing unit CPU can thus access the decoded data from data decoder via the system bus . Video data decoded by video decoder is passed to a graphics processor which is a computer optimized to processes graphics information rapidly. Graphics processor is particularly useful in processing graphics intensive data associated with Internet browsing gaming and multimedia applications such as those associated with MHEG Multimedia and Hypermedia information coding Experts Group set top box applications. It should be noted however that the function of graphics processor may be unnecessary in some set top box designs having lower capabilities and the function of the graphics processor may be handled by the CPU in some applications where the decoded video is passed directly from the demultiplexer to a video encoder. Graphics processor is also coupled to the system bus and operates under the control of CPU .

Many set top boxes such as STB may incorporate a smart card reader for communicating with a so called smart card often serving as a Conditional Access Module CAM . The CAM typically includes a central processor unit CPU of its own along with associated RAM and ROM memory. Smart card reader is used to couple the system bus of STB to the smart card serving as a CAM not shown . Such smart card based CAMs are conventionally utilized for authentication of the user and authentication of transactions carried out by the user as well as authorization of services and storage of authorized cryptography keys. For example the CAM can be used to provide the key for decoding incoming cryptographic data for content that the CAM determines the user is authorized to receive.

STB can operate in a bidirectional communication mode so that data and other information can be transmitted not only from the system s head end to the end user or from a service provider to the end user of the STB but also from the end user upstream using an out of band channel. In one embodiment such data passes through the system bus to a modulator through the diplexer and out through the transmission medium . This capability is used to provide a mechanism for the STB and or its user to send information to the head end e.g. service requests or changes registration information etc. as well as to provide fast outbound communication with the Internet or other services provided at the head end to the end user.

Set top box may include any of a plurality of I O Input Output interfaces represented by I O interfaces that permit interconnection of I O devices to the set top box . By way of example and not limitation a serial RS 232 port can be provided to enable interconnection to any suitable serial device supported by the STB s internal software. Similarly communication with appropriately compatible devices can be provided via an Ethernet port wired or wireless a USB Universal Serial Bus port an IEEE 1394 so called Firewire or i Link or IEEE 1394 wide port S video port or infrared port or Bluetooth. Such interfaces can be utilized to interconnect the STB with any of a variety of accessory devices such as storage devices audio visual devices gaming devices not shown Internet Appliances etc.

I O interfaces can include a modem be it dial up cable DSL or other technology modem having a modem port to facilitate high speed or alternative access to the Internet or other data communication functions. In one preferred embodiment modem port is that of a DOCSIS Data Over Cable System Interface Specification cable modem to facilitate high speed network access over a cable system and port is appropriately coupled to the transmission medium embodied as a coaxial cable. Thus the STB can carry out bidirectional communication via the DOCSIS cable modem with the STB being identified by a unique IP address. The DOCSIS specification is publicly available.

A PS 2 or other keyboard mouse joystick interface such as can be provided to permit ease of data entry to the STB . Such inputs provide the user with the ability to easily enter data and or navigate using pointing devices. Pointing devices such as a mouse or joystick may be used in gaming applications.

Of course STB also may incorporate basic video outputs that can be used for direct connection to a television set such as instead of or in addition to an IEEE 1394 connection such as that illustrated as . In one embodiment Video output can provide composite video formatted as NTSC National Television System Committee video. In some embodiments the video output can be provided by a direct connection to the graphics processor or the demultiplexer descrambler rather than passing through the system bus as illustrated in the exemplary block diagram. S Video signals from output can be similarly provided without passing through the system bus if desired in other embodiments.

The infrared port can be embodied as an infrared receiver as illustrated in to receive commands from an infrared remote control infrared keyboard or other infrared control device. Although not explicitly shown front panel controls may be used in some embodiments to directly control the operation of the STB through a front panel control interface as one of interfaces . Selected interfaces such as those described above and others can be provided in STB in various combinations as required or desired.

STB will more commonly as time goes on include a disc drive interface and disc drive mass storage for user storage of content and data as well as providing storage of programs operating on CPU . STB may also include floppy disc drives CD ROM drives CD R W drives DVD drives etc. CPU in order to operate as a computer is coupled through the system bus or through a multiple bus architecture to memory . Memory may include a combination any suitable memory technology including Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Flash memory Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM etc.

While the above exemplary system including STB is illustrative of the basic components of a digital set top box suitable for use with the present invention the architecture shown should not be considered limiting since many variations of the hardware configuration are possible without departing from the present invention.

Referring now to a block diagram of an exemplary display device such as a television monitor or the like having display is shown. Display device has a number of components and functional elements that enable it to function. These include central processing unit or CPU remote control receiver for receiving communications from remote control Ethernet I F module storage device a graphics engine composite video input module component video input module HDMI interface input tuner demodulator demux and decoder . The display device is able to communicate with the remote sender device discussed in via remote commander controller .

The exemplary display device is shown as a television. A television typically will have both analog and digital inputs. Analog inputs are commonly but not exclusively composite and component VGA D Sub 15 are applicable for analog as well. Digital interfaces may be but not limited to Ethernet IEEE 1394 HDMI and USB. Activity on any of the interfaces can be detected by the television. For example it is possible to detect the presence or absence of synchronization pulses in analog signals. With digital inputs on the other hand absence or presence of signals is detectable by absence or presence of information within the digital signal or absence of the digital signal. Many of the digital interfaces have handshaking functions that are used to detect presence of an active input or output. The television merely needs to determine whether or not any of its inputs are active through any of these or other methods.

The display device then is operable to display content and within the contexts of various embodiments has a programmed processor and control element a receive element operable to receive information from a remote sender device and a display element . The programmed processor and control element monitors information received by the receive element from the remote sender device and causes the display element to display the information during a normal mode of operation when the programmed processor and control element determines that the received information received from the remote sender device is primary content. When the received information is determined to be primary content the programmed processor and control element knows that the remote sender device is not in an idle mode. When the programmed processor and control element determines that the information received by the receive element from the remote sender device is not primary content the programmed processor and control element causes the display element to display alternate content during an alternate display mode of the display device the programmed processor and control element may cause the display device to acquire the alternate content from a second remote sender device. The second remote sender device may reside on the Internet and the alternate content may come from the Internet over an Ethernet connection of the display device to the Internet. Alternately when the programmed processor and control element determines that the information received by the receive element from the remote sender device is not primary content the programmed processor and control element causes the display device to acquire the alternate content from the storage element of the display device such as from storage device . The alternate content displayed by the display device may not be a screen saver content. Moreover a screen saver function of the display device operable to display the screen saver content may be disabled.

As described herein alternate content is one or more of audio visual and audio visual content and may come from a variety of sources referred to as a second or secondary remote sender device or service other than the remote sender device such as the set top box from which the display device receives primary content to display during a normal operating mode. It may be for example movies games videos advertisements etc.

During the alternate display mode of the display device the alternate content displayed by the display device need not be a screen saver content. The screen saver function of the display device operable to display the screen saver content may be disabled. However during the alternate display mode of the display device the alternate content displayed by the display device may be overlaid a screen saver content of a screen saver function of the display device. Furthermore the display device may display an indication of an idle mode of the remote sender device during the alternate display mode. For example the display device may display the alternate content in a transparent form overlaid the screen saver content also displayed by the display device during the alternate display mode.

During the alternate display mode of the display device the programmed processor and control element of the display device may cause the alternate content displayed by the display device to be overlaid a screen saver content of a screen saver function of the display device. The programmed processor and control element may cause the display device to display an indication of an idle mode of the remote sender device during the alternate display mode of the display device. For instance the programmed processor and control element of the display device may cause the display element to display the alternate content in a transparent form overlaid the screen saver content during the alternate display mode.

With this description of display device the system illustrated in may be better understood. The remote sender device shown as set top box in the exemplary drawing is operable to transmit primary content for display by display device . The display device is in cooperative arrangement with the remote sender device as shown and operable to display content from various sources. Thus an alternate source of content may be operatively coupled to the display device. This alternate content as previously noted may be advertisements or any manner of programming. When the display device determines that it is receiving primary content from the remote sender device it displays the primary content received from the remote sender device during a normal operating mode. When the display device determines that it is not receiving primary content from the remote sender device it can then display alternate content from the alternate source of content during an alternate display mode of operation of the display device. When the display device does not receive primary content from the remote sender device for display this indicates that the remote sender device is in an idle mode and not providing primary content for display by the display device. The display device can determine that the remote sender device such as a set top box is in a screen saver mode because for example most of the pixels onscreen are unchanging indicating a relatively static screen saver being displayed. Other ways of determining whether the remote sender device is in a screen saver mode are known in the art and may be used.

Referring now to flow of at Block the display device monitors information received from a remote sender device via one or more inputs of the display device during a normal operating mode to determine whether the remote sender device is not providing primary content for display by the display device the inquiry at Decision Block . As previously discussed display devices such as television monitors typically may have analog and digital inputs. Analog inputs are commonly but not exclusively composite and component also VGA D Sub 15 are applicable. Digital interfaces could be but not limited to DisplayPort DVI Ethernet IEEE 1394 HDMI and USB. Activity on any of the interfaces can be detected by the display device. For example it is possible to detect the presence or absence of synchronization pulses in analog signals. With digital inputs absence or presence of signals is detectable by absence or presence of information within the digital signal or absence of the digital signal. Many of digital interfaces have handshaking functions that are used to detect presence of an active input or output. The display device merely needs to determine whether or not any of its inputs are active.

If the display device determines from the monitored information that the remote sender device is providing primary content for display by the display device the flow continues to Block for normal continued operation of the display device.

If however the display device determines from the monitored information that the remote sender device is not providing primary content for display by the display device the flow continues to Decision Block for an inquiry about whether alternate content is to be acquired for display by the display device. If no then the flow may optionally continue to Block where the display device disables a display feature of the display device. If yes then the display device acquires alternate content during an alternate display mode of the display device at Block . Alternate content may be acquired through another peripheral and optionally store such content on a hard drive or other storage device for retrieval and use later. One approach is to activate another access point like Ethernet Ethernet I F interface and stream content to the television. Or an internal tuner may be used to access a channel containing content from a broadcast source. For example new services are available that allow for secondary programs or data access within the main channels these are know as ancillary services or minor channels. In the future it is expected there will be broadcast services targeted for handheld and mobile devices that would be accessible to a TV containing circuitry to receive such services. These services could contain traffic and weather information or movie trailers or sports highlights for example. At any rate the display device is operable to display such alternate content during an alternate display mode of the display device at Block .

As shown at Block if the display device determines from the monitored information that the remote sender device is not providing primary content for display by the display device the display device may disable a display feature of the display device. This may occur by turning off the display screen . If the display screen is a television the television can determine if an input is active as described earlier. It is possible to program the television through the user interface to time out after a period time and enter a standby state. It is also possible to have the television enter a lower power mode that disables most circuitry and still allow the receiver or inputs to listen for signals. Once a signal is received the television could reactivate turn on or begin storage of the signal content .

If the display device determines that the remote sender device is not providing primary content for display by the display device the display device may also acquire the alternate content from a second remote sender device. The second remote sender device may reside on the Internet and the display device may receive the alternate content from the Internet over an Ethernet connection of the display device to the Internet. If the display device determines that the remote sender device is not providing primary content for display by the display device the display device may acquire the alternate content from a storage element. As previously mentioned the storage element may reside on the display device as shown in .

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

