---

title: Call group management using the session initiation protocol
abstract: A method, apparatus, and electronic device for hierarchical communications are disclosed. A connection interface  may receive a query. A processor  may select an initial expert from the hierarchical expert tree based upon the query and direct the query towards the initial expert. A session initiation protocol server  may generate a hierarchical expert tree from an expert pool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08126836&OS=08126836&RS=08126836
owner: Motorola Mobility, Inc.
number: 08126836
owner_city: Libertyville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080606
---
The present invention relates to a method and system for gathering and disseminating data between a group of users. The present invention further relates to using a hierarchical expert tree to manage data.

When seeking to gather and disseminate data from a group of networked users containing many expert users a user may seek to communicate on a one on one basis or a one to many or broadcast basis. The communications may be a text or voice message. Group communications may be integral to social networks where an individual user or device may simultaneously communicate with a group of users or devices. The current group communication systems may be based on flat lists providing the same connectivity to all users that are defined either statically such as instant message groups or dynamically such as a selective dynamic group call SDGC .

A method apparatus and electronic device for hierarchical communications are disclosed. A connection interface may receive a query. A processor may select an initial expert from the hierarchical expert tree based upon the query and direct the query towards the initial expert. A session initiation protocol server may generate a hierarchical expert tree from an expert pool.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth herein.

Various embodiments of the invention are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention comprises a variety of embodiments such as a method an apparatus and an electronic device and other embodiments that relate to the basic concepts of the invention. The electronic device may be any manner of computer mobile device or wireless communication device. A method apparatus and electronic device for hierarchical communications are disclosed. A connection interface may receive a query. A processor may select an initial expert from the hierarchical expert tree based upon the query and directs the query towards the initial expert. A session initiation protocol server may generate a hierarchical expert tree from an expert pool.

The hierarchical group communication system may be used to process a query. A query may be a request seeking an answer to a data query such as locating information residing with one or more members of the group. The hierarchical group communication may arrange the users in a tree structure such that the original root node is the communication initiator. A communication message may propagate through other nodes based on the level of the node in the tree. The hierarchical group communication may be transmitted as a text message a voice message a multimedia message or other message medium.

Unlike the flat groups that contact all the nodes in a group a hierarchical group may contact a node or nodes propagating the communication to lower or higher level nodes as required. The hierarchical group may optimize the call and network overhead associated with a group call for the purpose of accomplishing a specific task such as answering a question. The communication may resume at each contacted node and propagate further in the tree instead of terminating on the contact node or nodes in a flat list . The hierarchical groups may be statically defined and maintained in a common directory accessible to all the nodes or may be dynamically published by the node that initiates or propagates the call. The hierarchical group may be dynamically formed based on the user specified criteria and contact node characteristics rather than relying on the user selection of nodes required by the selective dynamic group call feature. The hierarchical group may be initially based on the organizational chart for the overall group. The hierarchical group may be continuously monitored for any data events such as node timeout triggered by a failure of the contact node to respond after a given set of time. These data events may trigger adjustments to the tree including tree regeneration branch regeneration the addition or removal of contact nodes re layout of the tree and other tree adjustments. Due to reduced network overhead the hierarchical groups may be scaled up or down depending upon the query context.

A variety of external systems may provide services beyond the routing of queries. Upon receiving an answer the user may send feedback to an external rating system Arrow . The external rating system may forward that feedback to the peer expert that answered the query Arrow . If the system is a pay per query system the user may send payment to an external billing system Arrow . The external billing system may send a disbursement to the answering peer expert Arrow .

The user may access the SQF via a client software application. illustrates in a block diagram one embodiment of a SQF client software architecture that may reside on a device belonging to an expert user or a regular user. The SQF server may connect via a general packet radio service GPRS data exchange with a SQF idle application resident on a user device. The SQF idle application may post a link to a viewer application . The SQF idle application may have an idle user interface UI container a GPRS network interface a SIP user agent UA and other features such as an extensible markup language ML parser skin options user settings database and other options. The idle UI container may open and close the container may present posts in a query thread may allow a user to scroll between posts in a query thread may allow a user to receive a response to query posts may launch the viewer application may launch a wireless application protocol WAP browser and may perform other functions. In a short message service SMS system or a multimedia message service MS system the GPRS radio interface may act as a SMS listener or a MMS listener and may receive a SMS or a MMS notification from the SQF server .

The SIP UA may connect the SQF server to a user . The SIP UA may receive a SIP message containing a SQF message with various attributes of a HET. The SIP message may notify the SIP UA to establish sessions with the next level of the HET. The SIP UA may store with the device a received calling tree or sub tree from within the SQF message. If a communication session may benefit from a user interaction particularly real time user interaction then the SIP UA may determine from the user a suitable time to set up a communication session. The SIP UA may schedule a session with the appropriate child nodes within the HET or automatically establishing a session if necessary.

The viewer application may have a UI a hypertext markup language HTML or XML parser and other features . The viewer application may present to the user a post in a query thread in a user friendly manner may allow a user to post new query threads may receive user replies to posts in a query threads may present a user profile to a user may allow a user to rate a message and other features.

A node manager may manage the various individual contact nodes that may be composed hierarchically by the tree designer . Each contact node may correspond to a single end user device or service agent. The node manager may maintain a node profile. The node profile may include the static information associated with the contact node such as node address phone number IM address or other node information. The node manager may also maintain the node s dynamic properties such as presence location or other dynamic properties. The node manager may also dynamically manage the metadata associated with each node during a hierarchical group call. The node manager may be the bridge between the method of managing the tree and the external application that is using the tree. The node manager may have access to the continuously collected incremental knowledge from the nodes related to the type of hierarchical group communication such as a query about the topic user interface technology . External to or within the node manager this knowledge is aggregated using any one of the available automated knowledge management techniques such as summarization topic identification and text mining. The node manager may compute a score to reflect when the communication is done . Such a score may reflect the level of confidence or sufficiency of information collected since the inception of a particular hierarchical group communication. The node manager may apply timeout policies and update a local representation of the HET.

A tree history database DB may maintain historical information associated with the hierarchical groups. This information may include the tree or node graph utilized for a given goal the success rate associated with a given tree for a given goal or other historical data regarding hierarchical communications trees. The tree designer may utilize the historical information to dynamically generate new hierarchical communications trees.

A goal generator may utilize the context information of a query to generate a specific goal statement used by the tree designer to construct or adapt a tree. The goal statement may be either user defined or derived by the system based on the query and the context of the query as determined by the context manager . The context of the query may be the physical context task originator context or temporal context such as a time of day frequency or other temporal information.

The tree designer may generate a hierarchical communications tree based on the design goals provided by the goal generator . The tree designer may use available nodes from the node manager . The available contact nodes may be from a push to talk PTT group an instant messaging IM group or other communications group . The tree designer may reuse a tree from the tree history database or construct a new one based on the design goal.

The tree manager may use session initiation protocol SIP to control interactions with the HET. The node manager may use a SIP server to invite a node from a given point in HET invite a set of sub nodes remove a node replace a node or query the status of a node. The SIP server may report the status of a node the establishment of a connection to a node the completion of a call to a node or other node activity to the node manager . The SIP server may initiate sessions between nodes at different levels in the calling tree. The SIP server may maintain a record of the real time status of the calling tree. The SIP server may asynchronously notify the user that a given session is part of a HET and that the participants in the given session may be invited to subsequent sessions with nodes at the next level in the HET.

The tree manager may use multiple SIP servers . The SIP server of the caller node may construct a message representing a sub tree relative to a receiving node on a receiving SIP server . The message may be transmitted to the receiving SIP server to be used in inviting the receiving node. Any call status information at the receiving node may be forwarded to and maintained by the SIP server interacting with the initiating node manager .

The service delivery platform may use a number of servers to provide a variety of services. A Java enterprise server may have Java platform enterprise edition J2EE services a grid account management architecture GAMA services or an application programming interface API and a GAMA manager . The GAMA API may be used to grant the SQF server a return material authorization RMA or a content feed access to the Java enterprise server . The J2EE services may transfer messages to the messaging layer as a MQ message in type length value TLV format using a remote method invocation RMI or a simple object access protocol SOAP . A portal server may use a user provisioning portal to allow portal users PU to connect with the GAMA API . An identity server may provide entities groups rates policies and other data from an identity database DB to the GAMA manager . A SIP server may allow J2EE services to directly access the network gateway .

The network gateway may have a messaging adapter MESS ADAPT a SS7 stack a SIP adapter SIP ADAPT a third party call control 3PCC a link state routing protocol LS a presence PRES module and a billing system BILL SYS . The MESS ADAPT may execute SMTP short message peer to peer protocol SMPP a multimedia messaging service MM7 or other services. The SS7 stack may act as a mobile application port MAP a customized application for mobile network enhanced logic CAMEL application port CAP or an intelligent network application port INAP .

Via the node manager the tree designer may have access to incremental knowledge about the completion status of the query at hand and use this information to guide the tree adaptation. The tree adaptation may be based on timeout status stated goal and knowledge state and other metrics evaluating the effectiveness of the communication and performance of the query. The tree adaptation may include tree optimization in terms of network flow structure and membership. For example to meet the design goal new nodes may be dynamically added to the tree if one of the intermediate nodes does not respond. The tree adaptation method may be implemented as an evolutionary search leveraging existing techniques including genetic algorithms and tabu searches.

The tree designer may use trees present in the tree history to seed a population of candidate solutions for an evolutionary search. The evaluation function may be used to guide the selection of the historical trees to be included in the set of candidate solutions. Likewise new trees may be included in the set of candidate solutions. These may be generated by randomized changes including swapping one node for another changing the timeout value associated with the link between two nodes and swapping one sub tree for another.

The tree designer may use the SIP server to generate the HET and coordinate communication within the HET. A QUESTION data transmission may be piggybacked on an INVITE or MESSAGE data transmission sent by the SIP server to a node. illustrates in a block diagram a QUESTION that may be used to initiate a contact with an expert in the HET. The QUESTION may have a questioner identifier ID an application usage designation an expert forward list an expert route list a response route and a body . The application usage designation may be Generating Call Tree and other designations. The expert forward list may designate the forward path of the QUESTION . The expert forward list may have a initial level expert forward list indicating each of the experts to receive the QUESTION . Each expert may have an associated reply time indicating the amount of time to wait before the message is forwarded to a successive level of experts. The initial expert may have an associated successive level expert forward list indicating the experts to whom the initial expert should forward the QUESTION . While initial and successive experts are shown in any number of levels of experts may be used. The expert route list may include a list of experts that have received and forwarded the QUESTION . The response route may indicate whether the expert should respond through the previous experts on the expert route list or directly to the questioner . The body may describe the actual question the user wants answered. The body may be further parsed into a subject matter grouping to aid with tree generation and expert profile matching.

The controller processor may be any programmed processor known to one of skill in the art. However the decision support method can also be implemented on a general purpose or a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller peripheral integrated circuit elements an application specific integrated circuit or other integrated circuits hardware electronic logic circuits such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a programmable logic array field programmable gate array or the like. In general any device or devices capable of implementing the decision support method as described herein can be used to implement the decision support system functions of this invention.

The memory may include volatile and nonvolatile data storage including one or more electrical magnetic or optical memories such as a random access memory RAM cache hard drive or other memory device. The memory may have a cache to speed access to specific data. The memory may also be connected to a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM DVD read write input tape drive or other removable memory device that allows media content to be directly uploaded into the system.

The database interface may be used by the controller processor when executing the tree designer function to access the tree history database . The node manager may also use the database interface to access a database storing the group of contact nodes. The tree history database and the contact node may be stored locally on the telecommunications device or may be accessible through the network.

The Input Output connection interface may be connected to one or more input devices that may include a keyboard mouse pen operated touch screen or monitor voice recognition device or any other device that accepts input. The Input Output connection interface may also be connected to one or more output devices such as a monitor printer disk drive speakers or any other device provided to output data. The Input Output connection interface may receive a query from a user.

The network connection interface may be connected to a communication device modem network interface card a transceiver or any other device capable of transmitting and receiving signals over a network. The network connection interface may be used to connect a client device to a network. The network connection interface may send and receive a query as part of the operation of the tree manager whether as a client or a server. The network connection interface may use the SIP server to create and manage communication between the nodes in the HET. The tree history database and the contact node database may be accessed through the network interface. The components of the computer system may be connected via an electrical bus for example or linked wirelessly.

Client software and databases may be accessed by the controller processor from memory and may include for example database applications word processing applications as well as components that embody the decision support functionality of the present invention. The computer system may implement any operating system such as Microsoft Windows LINUX or UNIX for example. Client and server software may be written in any programming language such as C C Java or Visual Basic for example. Although not required the invention is described at least in part in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by the electronic device such as a general purpose computer. Generally program modules include routine programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components and data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Although the above description may contain specific details they should not be construed as limiting the claims in any way. Other configurations of the described embodiments of the invention are part of the scope of this invention. For example the principles of the invention may be applied to each individual user where each user may individually deploy such a system. This enables each user to utilize the benefits of the invention even if any one of the large number of possible applications do not need the functionality described herein. In other words there may be multiple instances of the electronic devices each processing the content in various possible ways. It does not necessarily need to be one system used by all end users. Accordingly the appended claims and their legal equivalents should only define the invention rather than any specific examples given.

