---

title: Profile generation, use, and management
abstract: Aspects of the present invention relate to systems and methods for generating and personalizing a profile, which may be a user account profile. In embodiments, a profile for a non-authenticated user may be generated, which may be referred to herein as a “phantom profile.” In embodiments, the phantom profile provides a means for creating and personalizing user accounts by appending data (which data may comprise content, links and IDs to data on a website or other websites, summaries, photos, one or more unique identifiers, etc.) to a profile, as well as a means for sharing and improving (adding and editing data) these profiles—whether or not the user is an authenticated user of the services associated with the user account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094469&OS=09094469&RS=09094469
owner: Eighty-Three Degrees, Inc.
number: 09094469
owner_city: Tiburon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 888 073 entitled Profile Generation Use and Management filed Feb. 2 2007 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention pertains generally to profiles and relates more particularly to systems and methods that allow for generating using and managing profiles.

Personalization on the Internet is considered a highly desirable state because it provides information to the website operator that may make a website user s experience richer and more relevant which typically enables a longer term relationship.

Historically personalization has involved an individual registering with a website and providing information such as name address preferences etc. to enable the website to tailor the service and the information to the individual.

With the rise of social networking websites and services increasingly personalization includes the connections to individuals created elsewhere online as well as the profile information related to those individual connections. There is a significant benefit of connecting to individuals who have data associated with their profiles as well as a benefit of connecting to individuals who may not be authenticated users of the service.

Aspects of the present invention relate to systems and methods for generating and personalizing a profile which may be a user account profile. In embodiments a profile for a non user or a non authenticated user may be generated which may be referred to herein as a phantom profile. In embodiments the phantom profile provides a means for creating and personalizing user accounts by appending data and metadata hereinafter collectively referred to as data to a profile as well as a means for sharing and improving adding and editing data these profiles whether or not the user is an authenticated user of the services associated with the user account. Examples of data include but are not limited to text animations links and IDs to data on a website or other websites summaries photos one or more unique identifiers other content and the like. It shall also be noted that for the purposes of this disclosure a non authenticated user shall be construed to mean non users non authenticated users or both.

In the following description for purpose of explanation specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these details. One skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the present invention some of which are described below may be incorporated into a number of different systems and devices including general purpose computers specialized computers mobile devices including without limitation mobile telephones personal data assistants PDAs and multimedia devices and the like. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. It shall be noted that the specific implementation is not critical to the present invention.

It shall be understood that devices or components or modules that may be shown in block diagrams are illustrative of embodiments of the invention and are meant to avoid obscuring the invention. It shall also be understood that throughout this discussion that systems devices or components may be described as separate functional units which may comprise sub units but those skilled in the art will recognize that the various systems devices or components or portions thereof may be divided into separate systems devices or components or may be integrated together including integrating within a single system device or component.

Furthermore connections between devices systems and components are not intended to be limited to direct connections. Rather data between these items may be modified re formatted or otherwise changed by intermediary components. Also additional or fewer connections may be used. It shall also be noted that the terms coupled or communicatively coupled shall be understood to include direct connections indirect connections through one or more intermediary devices and wireless connections.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure characteristic or function described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention and may be in more than one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The methods of the present invention may be embodied in an application web service or web site which may be a calendaring application or multimedia application that involves one or more forms of media photos graphics videos texts animations hyperlinks website and the like . In one embodiment the application may be an Internet application wherein through a web browser a user may interact with one or more individuals or groups. In an embodiment the application may allow a user to build a dynamic journal by adding content e.g. calendar events content or links to sites like flickr myspace webshots livejournal or any personal blog etc. so the user can track record and share updates in one convenient place. In embodiments the individual may also add personal information such as for example zip code webcal ical subscriptions to see other event calendars etc. It shall be noted that neither specific implementation of the methods of the present invention nor the specific implementations of devices or systems that may be used to facilitate the method or methods is critical to the present invention.

As noted above aspects of the present invention involve creating phantom profiles. A phantom profile enables the creation and personalization of a user account. A phantom profile also allows the sharing and improving a profile by adding and editing the contents of the profile whether or not the user that is the entity associated with that profile is an authenticated user of the service. Such systems and methods are distinct from traditional profile generation and management.

In traditional profile generation and management systems an individual registers at a website and is prompted to complete a form with profile information to personalize the experience. In some traditional profile management methods a stub profile may be used. A stub profile typically belongs to a non user of a service. The stub profile allows for the creation of a placeholder user account based on an email address used to send an invitation initiated by an existing user. The invited individual typically will be given a registration form with some information pre populated on it such as an email address and first name for the individual to complete in order to become a user of the service. A stub profile generally has no outward or public facing view. In both the traditional and stub variations any social connections made within that website must typically be made to existing users of the site.

Consider by way of illustration and not limitation the following example of system according to embodiments of the invention. A user registers with a service such as the Internet service 30boxes.com which provides calendaring contacting task management and other services. The profile manager may maintain a server or servers that stores profile information which may include an entry in a user database that associates a user with one or more pieces of information such as an email address. The services module may provide Contacts Buddies Friends to a user which may comprise a collection of one or more profiles tied by one or more database entries to the user. The services module may also record and or indicate a relationship between the user and each contact profile. In an embodiment the services module may provide an aggregate display of a user s profile data which may be referred to herein as a Buddy Page. 

One aspect of the present invention is that a profile may be made for non authenticated users and that profile may be populated with content and maintained by one or more third parties. In embodiments an individual may register with a website to find an extensive personalized profile with only an authentication required for registration. Thus social connections may be made to authenticated users of the website or to personalized but not authenticated individuals. A profile for an authenticated user of web services or a profile that has been verified or confirmed by the subject of the profile or by an authorized agent may be referred to herein as a true profile and the profile for a non authenticated individual of the web services or non verified non confirmed profile may be referred to herein as a phantom profile. In an embodiment a true profile may comprise an entry in a user table with personal data keyed to one or more authenticated unique identifiers such as email addresses and a phantom profile may comprise an entry in a user table with personal data keyed to a unique identifier that has not been authenticated. In embodiments authentication of unique identifiers may be performed by authenticator .

In an embodiment user may have a profile P that may be considered unlocked. An unlocked profile may be edited by one or more third parties such as user . It shall be noted that user has an interest in maintaining relevant profile information about user and may amend and edit information pertaining to user . In an embodiment only certain individuals may be allowed to edit the profile such as for example authenticated users or authenticated users with user as a contact.

Consider by way of further illustration that user is also registered with the service e.g. registered user of 30boxes.com and adds an identifier associated with user e.g. an email address as a contact in the contacts list within his or her profile P. The phantom profile P for user may then be made available to user . User may amend and edit information pertaining to user . It should be noted that because the phantom profile may be shared between users such an embodiment creates a collaborative effort whereby users benefit from the efforts performed by other users.

It should also be noted that non authenticated users may also benefit from the personalization efforts of users. Consider by way of illustration and not limitation the following example. Assume that at some date in the future the individual associated with an identifier associated with user chooses to register with the service. In an embodiment upon authentication that individual may assume the account profile for user which may already contain a great deal of content from the open web discovery and or from other users such as user and user . In an embodiment the phantom profile may be converted to a true profile.

It shall also be noted that aspects of the present invention may be applied in other embodiments as well. As noted above one benefit of the present invention is that a user may register to obtain an account and find that a significant amount of information has already been entered. This advantage may be obtained in situations as the one illustrated in where a user such as user has initiated the creation of a phantom profile for a third party user . However a phantom profile could also be generated at the initiation of the intended recipient of the profile. For example when an individual initially creates an account open web discovery may be employed to populated fields or obtain profile content that may then be presented to the individual for acceptance verification and or editing.

Accordingly it should be noted that embodiments of the present invention may comprise a system that provides for the warehousing and maintenance of any number of phantom profiles that can be created by a variety of means. Examples of means for obtaining content for a phantom profile may include but are not limited to signing up for a web service including a non authenticated user in the services e.g. adding Contacts as part of the 30 Boxes service commenting on 30 Boxes Buddy Card enabled blogs which Buddy Card may be a system that can verify the authenticity of a blog commenter s email address and associated name and buddy page on 30 Boxes the act of searching on 30 Boxes People Search which 30 Boxes People Search may comprise searching for a unique identifier on 30 Boxes and may cause the servers to use auto discovery and collect all public information it can find about a user even if they are not a user of 30 Boxes the selection of an instant messenger contact e.g. Yahoo Messenger contacts and any and all websites or services that make use of an application programming interface that facilitates searching or linking a user to a unique identifier such as 30 Boxes application programming interface API for user.FindByEmail which allows third parties to obtain data and metdata about a user for a given email address .

In an embodiment to generate the data used to personalize a phantom profile services module may perform a series of remote calls to websites in an effort to glean information. Examples of such sites include but are not limited to yahoo.com flickr.com webshots.com myspace.com upcoming.org livejournal.com and others. Sites such as these allow third parties to search for users either by use of standard web pages or an API. If a user is found data related to that user s account may be retrieved through a standard web page or an API. Third parties may make calls to these web sites in order to obtain the most recent data about a user. In an embodiment these calls may be made one or more times including periodically. These calls may be made via web pages API requests RSS feeds or other methods. In an embodiment the data retrieved may be subject to text parsing and logic in order to assign relevant data to the user table for a phantom profile.

Depicted in is an embodiment of a Buddy Page associated with a phantom profile according to various embodiments of the invention. In an embodiment a buddy page may be viewable to any users who have added as a contact an identifier associated with this profile e.g. an email address . In an embodiment an identifier such as an email address may not be required to see a buddy page and they may be viewed or accessed as a result of searches e.g. Google search by clicking on a Buddy Card on someone s blog or by publishing or sharing a link to a user s buddy page. depicts data that may be associated with the phantom profile including such information as first and last name location weather home page connections to other users based on social networks a rating based on social participation as well as links and descriptions of media produced or associated with this profile such as blog posts photos music recommendations shared links blog comments etc.

In an embodiment all profiles may be associated with a unique identifier such as an email address. True profiles may be those profiles which have been authenticated e.g. by sending an email to the email address in the profile . In an embodiment the email may include a special link that must be clicked or selected by the recipient of the email. Thus in an embodiment a difference between a phantom profile and a true profile may be that the phantom profile is built on an unauthenticated email. In an embodiment a true profile may also contain additional email addresses or other unique identifiers keyed to that profile. One skilled in the art shall recognize that other mechanisms and or contact means SMS Text messaging instant messaging etc. may be used to validate a profile. In embodiments authentication may be performed by or received from a third party such as an affiliate service site or other trusted service site.

Another aspect of the present invention is that users may create trusted relationships. Users may create trusted relationships with other users who have true profiles or phantom profiles by entering a unique identifier associated with another user s profile. In embodiments a trusted relationship between two users may be provided automatically by the service if both users have added each other as contacts. In embodiments a trusted relationship may be imported from a third party site service. In an embodiment trusted relationships enable users to add or amend protected personal data in each others profiles.

In an embodiment the results of an open web search may be used to indicate a social rating trust level or validity level of a profile. For example search results that return a number of matches or links thereby indicating a high degree of activity by the user on web sites may be indication a meaningful or valid user account. In embodiments a user may assign different trust levels to a trusted relationship. A higher trust level may be associated with greater rights to a profile e.g. amending or adding greater amounts of protected profile data . In embodiments a trust level may be obtained from a third party site service.

In embodiments Buddy Cards are small displays that contain a subset of either a profile or dynamically created information as a result of an open web search using one or more unique identifiers such as an email address . In embodiments a Buddy Card may be an application that may be displayed on websites outside of the website provided by the service such as outside of the 30boxes.com website. That is Buddy Cards represent a portable profile that may be embedded in other sites. The Buddy Card may be implanted as a plugin for use at a website such as a WordPress plugin for a blog website.

In embodiments when a person provides a unique identifier e.g. his email address when posting comments to a blog he enables a plugin for the Buddy Card to poll a database of profiles e.g. polls 30 Boxes website to find a database match and display information found in that person s public profile page in the database. In embodiments if no match is found in the database the plugin will use open web searching to find publicly available information related to the unique identifier and this information will be displayed in a Buddy Card.

In embodiments if a database does not contain a profile a phantom profile may be generated and thus a Buddy Card may act as a light form of registration with a service. It should also be noted that Buddy Cards can be associated with phantom or true profiles. depicts an example of a Buddy Card representing a true profile and depicts an example of a Buddy Card representing a phantom profile according to various embodiments of the invention. The Buddy Card may display profile data such as first and last name location weather a summary of additional websites or networks associated with that profile as well as a rating based on social participation and content published or associated with that profile. In embodiments the content displayed on a Buddy Card may be customized by the user.

In embodiments a Buddy Card may indicate whether it is associated with a true profile or a phantom profile and a rating may also be displayed which may be based on the web presence of the user associated with the Buddy Card or upon other factors. In an embodiment the true phantom indicator may be text or may be designated by assigning a color such as a green background for a label such as the rating label.

Authentication of the user of a Buddy Card may optionally be required. In an embodiment authentication may be done by requesting the user to supply an identifier such as a password. It should be noted that authentication is not limited to authentication using identifiers supplied by individuals and in embodiments authentication may be provided by third party sites cookies or other authentication schemes such as OpenID which is a framework for user identification that eliminates the requirement for multiple usernames across different websites.

Discussed above with respect to system implementations were also methods associated with the generation use and management of profiles. One aspect of the present invention is that a profile may be made for non authenticated users and that profile may be populated with content and maintained by one or more third parties. In embodiments an individual may register with a website to find an extensive personalized profile with only an authentication required for registration. Thus social connections may be made to authenticated users of the website or to personalized but not authenticated individuals. A profile for an authenticated user of web services or a profile that has been verified or confirmed by the subject of the profile or by an authorized agent may be referred to herein as a true profile and the profile for a non authenticated individual of the web services or non verified non confirmed profile may be referred to herein as a phantom profile. In an embodiment a true profile may comprise an entry in a user table with personal data keyed to one or more authenticated unique identifiers such as email addresses and a phantom profile may comprise an entry in a user table with personal data keyed to a unique identifier that has not been authenticated.

A phantom profile entry in a user table may be created when for example a user of the service adds a unique identifier such as email address instant message account name phone number etc. for a non authenticated user as a contact in his or her contacts in the service. A phantom profile may also be generated as a result of a Buddy Card being generated for a non authenticated user of a service.

Examples of other ways the creation of a profiles may be triggered includes but are not limited to signing up for a web service including interacting with a non authenticated user in the services e.g. adding Contacts as part of the 30 Boxes service commenting on Buddy Card enabled blogs which Buddy Card may be a system that can verify the authenticity of a blog commenter s identifier and associated name and profile page on a service the act of searching on 30 Boxes People Search which 30 Boxes People Search may comprise searching for a unique identifier on 30 Boxes and may cause the servers to use auto discovery and collect all public information it can find about a user even if they are not a user of 30 Boxes the selection of an instant messenger contact e.g. Yahoo Messenger contacts and any and all websites or services that make use of an application programming interface that facilitates searching or linking a user to a unique identifier such as 30 Boxes application programming interface API for user.FindByEmail which allows third parties to obtain data about a user for a given email address .

The unique identifier may be used to add data to the profile. For example the service may collect data for the phantom profile by performing a series of calls to websites in an effort to glean information. Examples of such sites include but are not limited to yahoo.com flickr.com webshots.com myspace.com upcoming.org livejournal.com and others. Sites such as these allow third parties to search for users either by use of standard web pages or an API. If a user is found data related to that user s account may be retrieved through a standard web page or an API. Third parties may make calls to these web sites in order to obtain the most recent data about a user. In an embodiment these calls may be made one or more times including periodically. These calls may be made via web pages API requests RSS feeds or other methods. In an embodiment the data retrieved may be subject to text parsing and logic in order to assign relevant data to the user table for a phantom profile.

For example the email address of the non authenticated user may be used to search blogs posting sites photo posting video posting etc. web sites and other places on the Internet to gather information associated with that email address. For instance web sites such as flickr.com webshots.com 360.yahoo.com upcoming.org and others allow third parties to search for users by their email address.

The system may enable interaction with a phantom profile in a variety of ways. For example users of a service may collaboratively maintain a phantom profile by adding editing data in the profile. In embodiments a phantom profile is unlocked so that users may add to or amend the data in the phantom profile. In embodiments a user of the service may form a trusted relationship with the phantom profile enabling the user to add to or amend all of the data associated with the phantom profile. This collaboration of users also represents a mechanism for obtaining information for a phantom profile. The service may provide other interactions include allowing communicating message or other content. It should be noted that Buddy Cards represent another means of interaction with the profile even for the non user. One skilled in the art shall recognize that other uses including other social interactions may be facilitated given the profile.

Aspects of the present invention may be implemented in any device or system capable of processing data including without limitation a general purpose computer and an implementation specific computer. The present invention may also be implemented into other devices and systems including without limitation any device or group of devices that are capable of processing and or displaying data. Furthermore within any of the devices aspects of the present invention may be implemented in a wide variety of ways including software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. For example the functions to practice various aspects of the present invention may be performed by components that are implemented in a wide variety of ways including discrete logic components one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or program controlled processors. It shall be noted that the manner in which these items are implemented is not critical to the present invention.

It shall be noted that the present invention may be implemented in any instruction execution computing device or system capable of processing data including without limitation a general purpose computer and a specific computer such as one intended for data processing. The present invention may also be implemented into other computing devices and systems. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may be implemented in a wide variety of ways including software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. For example the functions to practice various aspects of the present invention may be performed by components that are implemented in a wide variety of ways including discrete logic components one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or program controlled processors. It shall be noted that the manner in which these items are implemented is not critical to the present invention.

An addressable memory coupled to processor may be used to store data and software instructions to be executed by processor . Memory may be for example firmware read only memory ROM flash memory non volatile random access memory NVRAM random access memory RAM or any combination thereof. In one embodiment memory stores a number of software objects otherwise known as services utilities components or modules. One skilled in the art will also recognize that storage and memory may be the same items and function in both capacities. In an embodiment one or more of the components of may be modules stored in memory and executed by processor .

In an embodiment computing system provides the ability to communicate with other devices other networks or both. Computing system may include one or more network interfaces or adapters to communicatively couple computing system to other networks and devices. For example computing system may include a network interface a communications port or both each of which are communicatively coupled to processor and which may be used to couple computing system to other computer systems networks and devices.

In an embodiment computing system may include one or more output devices coupled to processor to facilitate displaying graphics and text. Output devices may include but are not limited to a display LCD screen CRT monitor printer touch screen or other device for displaying information. Computing system may also include a graphics adapter not shown to assist in displaying information or images on output device .

One or more input devices coupled to processor may be used to facilitate user input. Input device may include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touchpad and may also include a keyboard or keypad to input data or instructions into computing system .

In an embodiment computing system may receive input whether through communications port network interface stored data in memory or through an input device from a scanner copier facsimile machine or other computing device.

One skilled in the art will recognize no computing system is critical to the practice of the present invention. One skilled in the art will also recognize that a number of the elements described above may be physically and or functionally separated into sub modules or combined together.

It shall be noted that embodiments of the present invention may further relate to computer products with a computer readable medium that have computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The media and computer code may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind known or available to those having skill in the relevant arts. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store or to store and execute program code such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs flash memory devices and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer code include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific examples thereof have been shown in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood however that the invention is not to be limited to the particular forms disclosed but to the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

