---

title: Business model based on multi-level application widgets and system thereof
abstract: Provided is a business model based on multi-level application widgets and a system thereof, including: embedding, by a server, intended application widgets in an Internet platform equipped with a software application programming interface; providing a business protocol between an end user and the server, thus giving the end user authority to embed data sets in the application widgets and to conduct display, operation, sales, and real-time interaction within the same window; determining, by the end users, whether at least an application widget or a data set is to be embedded in each of the data sets again, so as to finalize the multi-level application widgets. Accordingly, the end user enhances promotion and thereby expands business on the Internet platform at the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542700&OS=09542700&RS=09542700
owner: 
number: 09542700
owner_city: Taichung
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20081105
---
The present invention relates to a business model and a system thereof and more particularly to a business model based on multi level application widgets and a system thereof configured to enhance promotion and thereby develop a business system.

Owing to the burgeoning information on the Internet the Internet has become indispensable to daily life of human beings nowadays allowing people to access the Internet in order to fetch at any time medium information such as news messages posted by users and shared video and music.

Plenty of end users such as enterprises firms and shops create their custom made homepages to display the products they produce or are going to produce and present corporate information. In the homepages product related information is presented in the form of pictures or video and explained in words allowing website visitors to gain insight into product related or corporate information. However web designers have to be professionally trained in programming and experienced in intricate procedure in order to finalize presentation of products and create a homepage.

On the other hand a lot of people gain access using an Internet link to works for example diaries or essays posted audio video information shared and news published on homepages for example blogs hosted by a shared Internet platform. However to edit essays or share audio video news related information on their blogs authors or publishers have to be experienced in intricate procedure of essay editing and audio video news sharing which is rather inconvenient and time consuming to the authors.

Conventional blogs and social networking websites allow a user to either edit an essay picture or play audio video information i.e. video and sound on a single displayed webpage. For instance a user who is editing an essay on a webpage of a blog or a social networking website is unable to load embed audio video information in the webpage and in consequence neither the blog nor the social networking website can display the essay and play audio video information on the same webpage. Also to load audio video information in a webpage of a blog or a social networking website the user has to search laboriously for the path of a saved audio video file before uploading the located audio video file to the blog or the social networking website where the file is to be played or viewed by the user.

On the other hand although users enjoy ease of reading by skimming through or clicking on an e book available for reading on a webpage of an existing blog or social networking website a drawback of the prior art remains unsolved a single webpage on a blog or on a social networking website cannot display a plurality of essays and play a plurality of pieces of audio video information concurrently and thereby is unfit for functional integration and incapable of increasing value added. Hence the prior art is intricate inconvenient and time consuming in user visitor editing. In short the prior art has the following drawbacks 

Accordingly the inventor of the present invention and related manufacturers are faced with a problem that calls for immediate solution namely the aforesaid drawbacks of the prior art.

To solve the above problem it is a primary objective of the present invention to provide a business model based on multi level application widgets and built with a multi level editing structure and a system of the same.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide a business model that enables an end user to create multi level widgets on an Internet platform for a server and perform editing quickly on the Internet platform and a system of the same.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a business model that enables an end user to enhance promotion and develop a business system through a server and a system of the same.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a business model that enables an end user to display and operate a variety of multimedia information within the same window and a system of the same.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a business model that enables an end user to display e commerce Online shopping information about articles to be sold within the same window and a system of the same.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a business model that enables real time interaction between end users using an interactive module within the same window and a system of the same.

To achieve the above and other objectives it is an objective of the present invention to provide a business model based on multi level application widgets including providing by a server an intended application widget to be embedded in an Internet platform equipped with a software application programming interface providing a business protocol between an end user and the server embedding by the end user a data set in the application widget embedding selectively a said application widget in another said application widget according to at least an editing message of the end user so as to edit and finalize multi level application widgets allowing the end users to conduct display operation sales and real time interaction within the same window expand business on the Internet platform and save editing time.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide a system for performing a business model with multi level application widgets. The system comprises a server for providing at least an application widget an Internet platform having a software application programming interface and a webpage to be embedded with the application widget by the server wherein the webpage is loaded with a list related parameter of the application widget a database linked to the Internet platform wherein parameters of intended said application widgets are retrieved from the database put on the webpage of the Internet platform and sent to the application widgets by the server and at least an end user for providing at least a data set to be embedded in the application widgets through the Internet platform displaying the data sets on the Internet platform so as to be viewed by the end user and having at least an editing message for selectively embedding a said application widget in another said application widget so as to edit and finalize multi level application widgets.

Features and technical disclosures of the present invention will be best understood by reference to the following detailed description of the present invention and the accompanying drawings. However the accompanying drawings are only to be used as references and illustrations but are not intended to limit the present invention.

The aforesaid objectives structural features and functional features of the present invention will be best understood by reference to the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring to the present invention is directed to a business model based on multi level application widgets. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention to expand business on the Internet an end user presents business related information particulars of business information about devised multimedia e commerce Online shopping information about articles to be sold etc. on an Internet platform for a server . The server embeds a plurality of application widgets in the Internet platform . The server selects and loads a list related parameter of the application widgets from a webpage on the Internet platform . The Internet platform has a software application programming interface API . The software application programming interface matches the application widgets .

The Internet platform is linked to a database. Intended parameters of the application widgets are loaded from the database and sent to the application widgets via a webpage on the Internet platform . Then the application widgets start loading. Upon receipt of event related information the Internet platform sends the parameters to the application widgets so as to enable the application widgets to start operation. The application widgets are provided with a widget engine and a widget interface . The widget engine receives the parameters compiles the parameters received and loads multimedia information of the widget interface of the application widgets . The multimedia information loaded undergoes computation and conversion by the code of a programming application before being sent to the widget interface at the bottom. The widget interface displays the multimedia information and e commerce Online shopping information. The multimedia information comprises video sound pictures animation text games advertisement etc.

After the application widgets have been embedded in the Internet platform a business protocol is formed between the end user and the server . The business protocol allows the end user to sign up at the Internet platform obtain an account number become a member enter into a contract with the Internet platform and acquire authority to embed a plurality of data sets in the application widgets . Once the end user embeds the data sets in the application widgets the data sets will instantly perform compilation allowing a variety of e commerce Online shopping information and multimedia information of the widget interface of the data sets to be displayed within the same Web window by means of the widget interface at the bottom. The multimedia information comprises video sound pictures animation text games advertisement etc. The e commerce Online shopping information comprises information about articles for sale and displayed in the Web window by the end user . For instance in the scenario where the end user is a garment retailer the end user displays articles for sale on the widget interface and presents multimedia information such as narrative text or try on video pictures on the widget interface and the Web window simultaneously displays articles to be sold by a plurality of said end users and provides update at any time. Hence the Web window on the Internet platform displays end user business related information particulars of business and information about devised multimedia for use in a business model with a view to developing a business system.

The Internet platform is linked to a database. Intended parameters of the application widgets are loaded from the database and sent to the application widgets via a webpage on the Internet platform . The database comprises parameters such as position dimension session user info merchandize or content setup etc. The application widgets at the bottom feature various modes of operation including frame structure image search word processing audio search advertisement search game search etc. It is up to the end user to decide which mode of operation to use. The business protocol at the server determines the authority to use the modes of operation.

Referring to which is a block diagram of a new architecture based on the disclosures in in another preferred embodiment for a business model based on multi level application widgets of the present invention the application widgets are embedded in the Internet platform at the server and the business protocol is formed between the server and the end user . Once the end user embeds the data sets in the application widgets the data sets will instantly perform compilation allowing a variety of e commerce Online shopping information and multimedia information of the widget interface of the data sets to be displayed within the same Web window by means of the widget interface at the bottom. Afterward the end user determines whether more said application widgets or more said data sets are to be embedded in the embedded data sets as needed in other words the end user independently determines whether editing is to continue and whether more multimedia information and e commerce Online shopping information are to be created . In response to a negative determination editing is terminated. In response to an affirmative determination the end user determines whether more said application widgets or more said data sets are to be embedded in the embedded data sets in other words the end user independently determines whether editing is to continue and whether more multimedia information and e commerce Online shopping information are to be created . In response to a negative determination editing is terminated. In response to an affirmative determination the end user finalizes the multi level application widgets. At this point the widget engines of the application widgets compile related parameters and then multimedia information is sent to the widget interfaces of the application widgets respectively. Then the widget interfaces display the multimedia information or e commerce Online shopping information. In so doing the end user not only develops a business system by means of the Internet platform but also saves editing time.

Referring to to promote business on the Internet platform by means of the multi level application widgets an end user takes the following steps 

Referring to to allow the end user to expand business on the Internet platform by means of the multi level application widgets a variety of multimedia information and e commerce Online shopping information of the widget interface of the data sets are displayed within the same Web window by the widget interface at the bottom and the multi level application widgets are linked to a blog or a social networking website according to the needs of the end user so as to display a variety of multimedia information and e commerce Online shopping information of the widget interface of the data sets on the blog or the social networking website .

The multi level application widgets are embedded in a Web server capable of real time interaction and linked to the Web server via the application widgets . Real time interaction between the end users takes place on the Web server using the data sets . For instance the end users have video chat through the widget interface in a real time convenient and time saving manner which overcomes a drawback of the prior art namely the prior art teaches starting a video window through a video software interface in order to perform video interaction within the video window. The video interaction takes place in real time and includes interactive video interactive chat rooms interactive forums interact games etc.

The present invention further provides a system for performing a business model with multi level application widgets. The system comprises a server for providing at least an application widget an Internet platform having a software application programming interface and a webpage to be embedded with the application widget by the server wherein the webpage is loaded with a list related parameter of the application widget a database linked to the Internet platform wherein parameters of intended said application widgets are retrieved from the database put on the webpage of the Internet platform and sent to the application widgets by the server and at least an end user for providing at least a data set to be embedded in the application widgets through the Internet platform displaying the data sets on the Internet platform so as to be viewed by the end user and having at least an editing message for selectively embedding a said application widget in another said application widget so as to edit and finalize multi level application widgets.

In conclusion the present invention is directed to a business model based on multi level application widgets which has the following advantages 

The business model further comprises using a computer readable recordable medium. The computer readable recordable medium is stored with a computer program for executing the aforesaid steps with a computer. The computer readable recordable medium is a floppy disk a hard disk a CD ROM a flash drive a magnetic tape an Internet accessible database or any storage medium readily conceivable by persons skilled in the art and characterized by equivalent functions.

The foregoing preferred embodiments are only illustrative of the features and functions of the present invention but are not intended to restrict the scope of the present invention. Changes and modifications within the field of the present invention and readily conceivable to persons skilled in the art should fall within the scope of the appended claims of the present invention.

