---

title: Apparatus, system, and method for collecting metrics from a non-monolithic website
abstract: An apparatus, system, and method are disclosed to collect metrics from a non-monolithic website having external content. The method includes monitoring a pointer movement in a web page. The web page displays a content feed of the external content. The method also includes identifying a pointer movement representative of an interaction gesture. The interaction gesture is indicative of a type of interaction with the content feed of the external content. The method also includes generating a score for the content feed in response to the pointer movement including an interaction gesture. The score includes a quantity of each of the reported types of interaction with the content feed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09535718&OS=09535718&RS=09535718
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09535718
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080416
---
Users of the internet no longer want to browse through endless sites to find their solutions. They would prefer that the information they are looking for be brought to them. Many websites now offer syndication technologies such as Really Simple Syndication RSS and Atom and disseminate feeds related to their site content.

Users can read these feeds now through readers browsers on cell phones and in syndication feed mashups offered as personalized pages for users. These personalized pages offered by Google Yahoo Microsoft IBM developer spaces Netvibes etc can aggregate a user s feeds and present them as a custom newspaper that caters to the reader s particular interests. Users no longer have to visit different websites to peruse their favorite sites every day. Instead the content they look for most often can be made available on one non monolithic web page that collects content from sites all over the web. This non monolithic web page displays content from external sources such as syndication feeds on a unified web page.

However traditional site metrics are calculated based on page views and click throughs. Personalized pages and mashups present content from external sources which may be viewed by the user but unless the user clicks through to the original content traditional methods of determining the audience for content do not accurately reflect the value of a particular piece of content. For example if a site has 300 000 tracked users and twice as many tracked views but there are 450 000 actual readers and a high volume of user interaction not tracked by views it can be a detriment to a site s business. In this case the site is not getting credit for the traffic being generated by the content on the site.

Embodiments of a computer program product are described. In one embodiment the computer program product includes a computer useable medium to store a computer readable program that when executed on a computer causes the computer to execute operations to collect metrics from a non monolithic website having external content. The operations executed by the computer program product include an operation to monitor a pointer movement in a web page. The web page displays one or more content feeds. The operations also include an operation to report the pointer movement in response to the pointer movement including an interaction gesture. An interaction gesture in one embodiment is a pointer movement indicating one or more types of interaction with one or more content feeds displayed by the web page. In certain embodiments the computer program product includes an operation to tabulate a quantity of one or more types of interaction with one or more content feeds displayed by the web page. Other embodiments of a computer program product are also described.

Embodiments of a system are also described. In one embodiment the system collects metrics from a non monolithic website. The system includes a web server such as a computer configured to host web content. In certain embodiments the system also includes an interactive web application hosted by the web server. The interactive web application displays web content on a display and exchanges data with the web server. In one embodiment the system includes a monitoring application with a pointer movement monitor that monitors a pointer movement in a web page. The web page displays one or more content feeds. The monitoring application may further include an interaction reporter that reports the pointer movement in response to the pointer movement including an interaction gesture. The interaction gesture indicates one or more types of interaction with one or more content feeds displayed by the web page. In one embodiment the monitoring application includes a score generator that generates a weighted score for a content feed. The weighted score indicates a level of interaction with the content feed. Other embodiments of the system are also described.

Embodiments of an apparatus are also described. In one embodiment the apparatus collects metrics from a non monolithic website having external content. One embodiment of the apparatus includes a pointer movement monitor that monitors a pointer movement in a web page. The web page displays one or more content feeds. The apparatus may also include an interaction reporter that reports the pointer movement in response to the pointer movement including an interaction gesture. The interaction gesture indicates one or more types of interaction with one or more content feeds displayed by the web page. In certain embodiments the apparatus includes a score generator that generates a weighted score for a content feed. The weighted score indicates a level of interaction with the content feed. Other embodiments of the apparatus are also described.

Embodiments of a method are also described. In one embodiment the method collects metrics from a non monolithic website having external content. The method includes monitoring a pointer movement in a web page. The web page displays one or more content feeds. In one embodiment the method includes reporting the pointer movement to a score generator in response to the pointer movement including an interaction gesture. The interaction gesture indicates one or more types of interaction with one or more content feeds displayed by the web page. In certain embodiments the method further includes generating a weighted score in the score generator for the content feed. The weighted score includes a quantity of each of the reported types of interaction with a content feed weighted by a weight for each of the types of interaction with the content feed. Other embodiments of the method are also described.

Other aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrated by way of example of the principles of the invention.

In the following description specific details of various embodiments are provided. However some embodiments may be practiced with less than all of these specific details. In other instances certain methods procedures components structures and or functions are described in no more detail than to enable the various embodiments of the invention for the sake of brevity and clarity.

While many embodiments are described herein at least some of the described embodiments collect metrics for users of a non monolithic website containing external content. In particular embodiments of the described system method and apparatus collect metrics describing interactions with the external content that is not collected by traditional page view based metrics.

The web server is a computer running software that hosts web content in one embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the web server communicates the interactive web application over the internet to a display . The interactive web application displays web content on the display .

The interactive web application may be any collection of computer readable code that displays web content on a display and receives input from a user in relation to the web content . One example of an interactive web application is an asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX based web page. In this example the AJAX based web page includes commands that cause the display to display the web content and commands that cause a computer associated with the display to track interactions with the web content .

In certain embodiments the interactive web application communicates with the web server asynchronously. For example in the illustrated embodiment the interactive web application may communicate data relating to interactions with the web content to the web server without requesting a new web page. In an alternative embodiment the interactive web application may communicate data relating to interaction with the web content to a metrics server not shown .

The web content in the illustrated embodiment includes one or more feeds of external content . The external content may be any content provided from a source external to the web server . For example the external content may be a really simple syndication RSS feed or an Atom feed. In another example the external content may be scraped from external sources such as a website a forum a blog or the like.

The external content in the illustrated embodiment is incorporated into the web content displayed on the display by the interactive web application. Examples of interactive web applications that display external content include those provided by my.yahoo.com and iGoogle.com.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the interactive web application may display external content in conjunction with other content such as internal content. The web content may include any combination of internal content and external content from one or multiple sources. The web content in certain embodiments includes content from a single source. The system in certain embodiments collects metrics for content regardless of the source of the content. In one embodiment the system collects metrics separately for each source of content.

The monitoring application in one embodiment monitors the interaction of a user with the web content . The types of interaction monitored by the monitoring application include but are not limited to placing a pointer over a representation of a content feed selecting text copying text moving items and making items visible. Some types of interactions monitored by the monitoring application are discussed in more detail below in relation to .

In one embodiment the monitoring application is computer code that is stored on a memory device and operates on a computer connected to the display . The computer code may be any type of code known in the art capable of monitoring user interactions. For example the monitoring application may be a JavaScript application.

In the illustrated embodiment the monitoring application is delivered by the web server to the computer operating the display . In an alternative embodiment the monitoring application is delivered from an external source such as a monitor application web server not shown . In yet another embodiment the monitoring application may be integrated with a web browser not shown . For example the monitoring application may be in the form of a plug in that is installed on a web browser. In another embodiment the monitoring application is integrated with the web content .

The internet in the illustrated embodiment is a communication framework that communicates data among various communication nodes. For example in the illustrated embodiment the internet communicates the interactive web application to the display . In certain embodiments a different communication framework known in the art may be used such as a local area network LAN or the like and should be considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The display may be any device capable of displaying web content . For example the display may be a computer with a monitor a web enabled cell phone a laptop computer a web kiosk or another type.

Communication between the elements of the communication framework may take place using any communication technique known in the art. An example of an appropriate communication technique is the use of transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP .

In the illustrated embodiment the web server is in two way asynchronous communication with the display . The web server sends web content to the display . The web content may include a monitoring application that causes the display to report interaction with the web content to the web server . In an alternative embodiment the monitoring application may cause the display to report interactions with the web content to a different component such as a third party score generator .

The web content provided by the web server includes external content provided by a third party content provider in the illustrated embodiment. A plurality of third party content providers may provide a plurality of content feeds for inclusion in the web content . The third party content provider communicates content to the web server in one embodiment. In an alternative embodiment the third party content provider may communicate content directly to the display . In yet another embodiment the third party content provider may communicate content to an intermediary not shown which communicates the content to the web server .

In the illustrated embodiment the web server communicates metric data to the third party content provider . The metric data may include any data collected by the web server about interactions with content. For example the web server may receive a report from the monitoring application about types and quantities of interactions with the web content which is then communicated to the third party content provider .

In one embodiment the web server provides an application programming interface API that supports requests to deliver metric data. For example the web server may receive a request from the third party content provider that conforms to the API. In response to the request the web server communicates metrics to the third party content provider .

In an alternative embodiment the web server may process the data and communicate the results of this processing to the third party content provider . For example the web server may include a score generator not shown which generates a weighted score for interactions with the content provided by the third party content provider . The score generator in this example may weight each type of interaction with a weight multiply a reported quantity of each type of interaction by the respective weight and add the weighted scores for each type of interaction to reach an overall weighted score. This weighted score may then be passed to the third party content provider .

In the illustrated embodiment the web server communicates metric data to a third party score generator . The third party score generator in the illustrated embodiment receives a report about types and quantities of interactions with the web content from the web server . In an alternative embodiment the third party score generator receives a report about types and quantities of interaction with the web content from the display .

The third party score generator in one embodiment generates a score for each interaction with the web content . The score may be a weighted score generated by weighting each type of interaction with a weight multiplying a reported quantity of each type of interaction by the respective weight and adding the weighted scores for each type of interaction to reach an overall weighted score.

The score generated by the third party score generator in one embodiment is communicated to a third party content provider . In another embodiment the score may be communicated to the web server . In a further embodiment the score may be delivered to the third party score receiver .

The third party score receiver receives a score representing a level of interaction with the web content . In the illustrated embodiment the third party score receiver receives the score from the web server . In an alternative embodiment the third party score receiver receives the score from a third party score generator . In yet another embodiment the third party score receiver receives the score from the third party content provider .

The pointer movement monitor in one embodiment monitors the movement of a pointer relative to the web content . The pointer movement monitor may be computer executable code that causes the computer to monitor the movement of a pointer relative to the web content . For example the pointer movement monitor may be JavaScript code that operates within a web browser to monitor pointer movement.

The content feed location monitor in one embodiment monitors the location of a content feed in the web content . The content feed location monitor may be computer executable code that causes the computer to monitor the location of the content feed in the web content . For example the content feed location monitor may be JavaScript code that operates within a web browser to monitor content feed location.

The interaction reporter reports interactions with a content feed in the illustrated embodiment. In one embodiment the interaction reporter reports an interaction if a pointer movement reported by the pointer movement monitor is determined to be an interaction gesture.

Interaction gestures may include any pointer movement that indicates a type of interaction with elements of the non monolithic website. For example pointer movements that include rolling over a representation of a content feed remaining over or hovering over a representation of a content feed for a pre determined time selecting text in a content feed and moving a representation of a content feed may constitute interaction gestures. Some types of interaction gestures are discussed in more detail in relation to .

In a further embodiment the interaction reporter reports an interaction if a location of a representation of a content feed reported by the content feed location monitor is determined to be an interaction gesture. For example the interaction reporter may report an interaction if a representation of a content feed is within a view pane. In this example the view pane defines the area of the web page that is visible on a display.

As another example a content feed may include a plurality of discrete items within the content feed such as different stories or articles within the feed. In this example the interaction reporter may report interactions with the entire feed and or interactions with items within the feed.

The interaction reporter in one embodiment reports interactions to the interaction tabulator . In another embodiment the interaction reporter reports interactions to the score generator . In yet another embodiment the interaction reporter communicates interactions to an external receiver not shown such as the web server or a third party score generator .

In the illustrated embodiment the interaction tabulator tabulates a quantity of one or more types of interaction with a content feed. The interaction tabulator receives reports of interactions from the interaction reporter in this embodiment and maintains a record of the number of each type of interaction that is reported. For example the interaction tabulator may maintain a record that shows that a content feed has been hovered over three times text in the content feed has been selected twice and the representation of the content feed is located within the view pane.

In an alternative embodiment the interaction tabulator operates within the web server . In this embodiment the interaction tabulator receives a report from the interaction reporter over the internet and maintains a record of interactions with the web content at the web server . In other embodiments the interaction tabulator may be located on various other hosts such as a third party score generator the third party content provider or tabulation host not shown .

The interaction tabulator in another embodiment receives reports from a plurality of interaction reporters . In this embodiment the interaction tabulator maintains a record of interaction with web content from a plurality of displays . In this embodiment the interaction tabulator may be located on the web server a third party score generator a third party content provider a tabulation host or another location.

The score generator generates a score reflecting a level of interaction with the web content based on the reported interactions. The score in this embodiment is based on a mathematical relationship between the quantity and types of interaction with the web content. In one embodiment a score is generated for an individual content feed with each content feed having its own generated score. However in certain embodiments the score generator generates a cumulative score for all of the items in the web content or for a subset of items in the web content.

In one embodiment the score generator generates a weighted score by weighting each type of interaction with the web content by a weight. For example rolling over an item representing a content feed may be assigned a weight of 0.2 while hovering over an item representing a content feed for more than one second may be assigned a weight of 0.5. The score generator in this example may generate a weighted score by multiplying the number of rolls by 0.2 and adding the result to the number of hovers multiplied by 0.5.

The score generator in one embodiment receives a report from the interaction tabulator indicating the number of each type of interaction. In an alternative embodiment the score generator receives reports from the interaction reporter in response to an interaction being an interaction gesture. In this embodiment the score generator updates the score in response to the receipt of a reported interaction.

In an alternative embodiment the score generator operates within the web server . In this embodiment the score generator receives a report from the interaction reporter and or the interaction tabulator over the internet and a score at the web server . The score generator may be located on various other hosts such as a third party score generator the third party content provider or the like.

The score reporter in the illustrated embodiment reports a score generated by the score generator . In one embodiment the score reporter reports the score to the web host . In another embodiment the score reporter reports the score to the third party content provider . In yet another embodiment the score reporter reports the score to a third party score receiver . The score reporter may be located on various other hosts such as the web server the third party content provider the third party score generator or the like.

In an alternative embodiment the interaction reporter reports an interaction in response to the pointer hovering over the representation of a content feed for a pre determined time. For example the pre determined time may be two seconds and in response to the pointer remaining over the representation of a content feed for two seconds the interaction reporter reports the interaction.

As described above in certain embodiments interaction reports are also generated for interactions with items within a content feed . For example the interaction reporter may determine that a pointer movement is an interaction gesture in response to the pointer hovering over an item for more than two seconds.

In an alternative embodiment the interaction reporter reports an interaction in response to the pointer copying text within the representation of a content feed . For example in response to the pointer dragging text from the representation of a content feed the interaction reporter reports the interaction.

As described above in certain embodiments interaction reports are also generated for interactions with items within a content feed . For example the interaction reporter may determine that a pointer movement is an interaction gesture in response to the pointer selecting text within an item .

In an alternative embodiment the content feed location monitor monitors the location of one or more representations of one or more content feeds . In this embodiment the feed location monitor reports a movement of one or more representations of content feeds in response to the pointer moving a representation of a content feed .

As described above in certain embodiments interaction reports are also generated for interactions with items within a content feed . For example the interaction reporter may determine that a pointer movement is an interaction gesture in response to the pointer moving an item within the representation of a content feed .

In an alternative embodiment the content feed location monitor monitors the location of one or more representations of one or more content feeds . In this embodiment the feed location monitor reports a movement of one or more representations of content feeds in response to the pointer scrolling the web content using the scroll bar .

As described above in certain embodiments interaction reports are also generated for interactions with items within a content feed . For example a representation of a content feed may include one or more scrollable items within the representation of a content feed and the interaction reporter may report an interaction gesture in response to the pointer scrolling the scrollable items within the representation of a content feed .

In an alternative embodiment the content feed location monitor monitors the location of one or more representations of one or more content feeds . In this embodiment the feed location monitor reports visibility of one or more representations of content feeds in response to the pointer selecting a tab that includes a representation of a content feed .

As shown in the pointer movement monitor monitors a pointer movement relative to the web content . In certain embodiments the content feed location monitor monitors the location of a representation of one or more content feeds .

The interaction reporter determines whether a mouse movement and or a content feed location represents an interaction gesture. As described above interaction gestures may include but are not limited to rolling over items hovering over items for a pre determined time selecting text copying text moving content feeds moving items within content feeds and scrolling selecting tabs or otherwise changing a view pane to make representations of content feeds visible in a view pane.

If the interaction reporter does not determine that a mouse movement and or a content feed location represents an interaction gesture then the pointer movement monitor continues to monitor pointer movement. In response to a determination that an interaction represents an interaction gesture the interaction reporter reports the interaction. The interaction may be reported to a web host an interaction tabulator a score generator or another receiver of interaction reports.

The interaction tabulator tabulates reported interactions. The interaction tabulator may tabulate interactions by type of interaction content feed items within a content feed or other characteristics of the interaction. In certain embodiments the tabulated interactions are reported to a score generator a web host or another receiver of interaction reports.

The score generator generates a weighted score based on the reported interactions. The weighted score may be generated using a weight for each category of interaction. For example Table 1 shows exemplary weights for a variety of interaction gestures although other embodiments may implement other weighting systems.

In one embodiment the weighted score is generated by multiplying the weight for each category of interaction by the respective quantity for that type of interaction to create a weighted score for each type of interaction. The weighted scores for each type of interaction are then added together to generate a cumulative weighted score.

In one embodiment the score generator generates the weighted score periodically in response to a report from an interaction tabulator . In an alternative embodiment the score generator generates the weighted score by continuously updating the weighted score as interactions are reported.

The score communicator communicates the weighted score. In certain embodiments the weighted score is communicated to a third party content provider . In another embodiment the weighted score is communicated to a third party score receiver .

It should also be noted that at least some of the operations for the methods may be implemented using software instructions stored on a computer useable storage medium for execution by a computer. As an example an embodiment of a computer program product includes a computer useable storage medium to store a computer readable program that when executed on a computer causes the computer to perform operations including an operation to monitor a pointer movement in a web page. The web page displays one or more content feeds. In one embodiment operations to report the pointer movement in response to the pointer movement comprising an interaction gesture are included in the computer program product. In a further embodiment operations are included in the computer program product for tabulating a quantity of one or more types of interaction with one or more content feeds displayed by the web page.

Embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In one embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore embodiments of the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable storage medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable storage medium can be any apparatus that can store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer useable or computer readable storage medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable storage medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include a compact disk with read only memory CD ROM a compact disk with read write CD R W and a digital video disk DVD .

An embodiment of a data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code includes at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus such as a data address and or control bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Additionally network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operations may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be implemented in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the invention is to be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

