---

title: System and method for real time account and account number generation using origination APIS
abstract: A system and method generate an account in real time in accordance with an application programming interface (API). The API contains parameter descriptions listing universal resource locator (URL) parameters associated with items. A format for implementing an http request to transmit data to in compliance with the defined format is disclosed. A transparent mode for transmitting a response to an http request transmitting data provides for the transmission of an extensible markup language (XML) formatted file communicating an outcome to the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07849010&OS=07849010&RS=07849010
owner: Accountnow, Inc.
number: 07849010
owner_city: San Ramon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080806
---
This is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 837 410 filed Aug. 10 2007 entitled System And Method For Real Time Account And Account Number Generation Using Origination APIS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Generally providers of financial solutions benefit from lead generation in developing business. This is because lead generation drives individuals to financial services providers. Wholesalers retailers and other commercial establishments have a steady stream of customers which may desire financial solutions. Further many of these customers are part of the 70 80 million persons in the United States that do not have the benefit of a bank account or credit card. Often the commercial establishments are in a position to offer financial services because their customers are using websites or are physically located in stores. Sometimes offering these financial services will help the commercial establishment to sell additional products and services. For Example a store may require a bank account credit debit or prepaid card to purchase a service but a customer may not have a bank account credit debit or prepaid card even though he has available funds and a steady stream of income. Such a non banked Applicant is not served. Absent a financial service that would immediately provide the individual with an account the business may be lost. What is needed is a system and method for communicating lead generation between the commercial establishments and the providers of financial solutions with real time account creation capabilities.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will be come apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems tools and methods that are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described problems have been reduced or eliminated while other embodiments are directed to other improvements.

A novel system creates an account for an individual in real time by receiving applicant data associating the applicant with a bank account from a pool of accounts and then providing the account number to the individual. Advantageously this allows for sales to take place where non banked customers might otherwise be turned away. In the case that a commercial establishment requires a bank account credit debit or prepaid card number for the completion of a transaction a bank account credit debit or prepaid card number can be immediately provided to the commercial establishment without requiring the customer s interaction.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of various embodiments of the invention.

A novel system and method create an account for an individual in real time. A customer submits a request to a financial services provider for an account. The request includes applicant data describing the customer containing parameters associated with items formatted in accordance with an application programming interface API for originating applicant data. The financial services provider receives the request and associates a bank account with the customer. Then the customer is provided an American Banking Association ABA routing transit number RTN as well as a deposit account number. In addition a debit payment card having the ability to charge payments is provided. In a non limiting embodiment a Visa or MasterCard debit card is used.

In the example of the system includes bank A bank B automated clearinghouse commercial establishment financial services provider server terminal and customer . Here customer can electronically connect with commercial establishment . Commercial establishment requires a bank account credit debit or prepaid card number for the electronic purchase of goods and services.

In a non limiting example commercial establishment is a company requiring a bank account credit debit or prepaid card number for the sale of a cable TV service. Customer would be turned away by commercial establishment in the absence of an account to use. However here it is possible for customer to be directed to financial services provider server with the option of creating an account in real time for use in purchasing goods and services from commercial establishment .

In the example of the flowchart starts at module with receiving a request for an application for an account including applicant data for the account wherein the applicant data is formatted according to an Origination API. An exemplary set of parameters for use in transmitting applicant data using a universal resource locator URL is given in . The parameters depicted in are discussed in detail in reference to .

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with associating a bank account with the account. A plurality of banks is contemplated. It is possible to have a pool of accounts in which accounts at a bank A are reserved for a financial services provider. Similarly a pool of accounts at bank B is reserved as well. A financial services provider may then associate an account with an applicant from the accounts available to it from bank A bank B . . . through bank n.

In some embodiments a screening process may be used to exclude any applicants that do not successfully meet initial criteria. An example of this process includes transmitting an applicant s identification information to a credit reporting bureau for the purposes of identifying the applicant.

In a non limiting example the applicant data received is processed through the Office of Foreign Asset Control OFAC Specifically Designated Nationals SDN database for exclusion from consideration for an account. Further any potential matches of customers will return a match code indicating which elements of the record matched along with the full record from the database to assist in further verification. Additionally after receiving an authentication outcome from the credit reporting bureau the financial services provider may run an additional check against its internal application records using data from the credit reporting bureau.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with generating an account number for the account. This can be done in real time using the Luhn algorithm also known as the modulus 10 or mod 10 algorithm which is a checksum formula used to validate a variety of identification numbers such as account numbers. The algorithm can be used to distinguish valid numbers from collections of random digits.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with providing the account number identifying the account.

In some embodiments a customer is using her own computing device. The computing device operates a web browser. The customer uses the web browser to visit a commercial establishment online to purchase products or services from their website. There the customer is confronted with a payment entry window presented by the commercial establishment. The customer may be simultaneously presented with a link offering to create an account so that the customer may complete her purchase.

In some embodiments executing a link on a commercial establishment web page executes a program which transmits customer information to a financial services provider. The customer information is information that was already entered in furtherance of purchasing products or services obviating the need to re enter it. Following the creation of the account the account information may be automatically transmitted to the commercial establishment and the transaction completed.

In some embodiments a link on a web page offered by a commercial establishment is provided concurrently with a request for payment. Following the link the customer is provided with a data entry form for the collection of information in creating an account. Once the account information entered the information is transmitted to a financial services provider for the creation of an account. Once the account is created the account information may be either presented to the customer via a web page or automatically communicated to the commercial establishment for purchase of the goods or services.

In some embodiments a customer is located in a brick and mortar store owned by a commercial establishment using a computing device which runs a program operable to communicate with a financial services provider to request an account. The program is not a web browser but is instead a program created at least in part for the purpose of gathering information and transmitting it to a financial services provider for creation of an account. A customer may enter the information and have an account generated. The newly generated account may be used to complete transactions with the commercial establishment while the customer is physically located at the brick and mortar store. The customer may receive products or services before leaving the store.

In some embodiments a customer is located in a brick and mortar store owned by a commercial establishment using a computing device having a web browser to apply for an account. The customer may visit a web site operated by the commercial establishment. The customer may be presented with a payment entry window containing a link offering to create an account. Following this link the commercial establishment provides information to a financial services provider for the purposes of creating an account for the customer. The customer information is information that was already entered in furtherance of purchasing products or services obviating the need to re enter it for the financial services provider. Following the creation of the account the account information may be automatically transmitted to the commercial establishment. The customer may then complete a transaction and is physically provided the goods or services before exiting the store.

In some embodiments a customer is located in a brick and mortar store owned by a commercial establishment using a computing device having a web browser to apply for an Account. A link on a commercial establishment web page is provided concurrently with a request for payment. Following the link the customer is provided with a data entry form for the collection of information in creating an account. The customer enters account information. The account information is transmitted to a financial services provider for the creation of an account. Once the account is created the account information may be either presented to the customer via a web page. The customer may then provide the information to the commercial establishment for completion of a transaction. The customer may then be physically provided goods or services before exiting the store.

In some embodiments a customer is speaking with a customer service representative of a commercial establishment via tele communication for the purpose of purchasing a product or service. In a non limiting example the customer calls a commercial establishment by telephone and offers to buy an item. A customer service representative requests payment information and offers to create an account that the customer can use to fulfill the payment information request. The customer responds requesting an account and provides account information for the creation of the account. The customer service representative for the commercial establishment receives account information from the customer and transmits it to a financial services provider. The financial services provider creates an account and transmits the information to the customer service representative. The customer service representative then completes a transaction using the newly created account and confirms with the customer that she has successfully purchased the requested product or service. The customer service representative may then provide the newly created account information to the customer.

In some embodiments transparent mode is observed. In transparent mode a transparent mode parameter is set to true. Then in stead of redirecting the applicant to a new page the financial services provider server will send a file other than a web page communicating the response. The response could be a file formatted for the extensible markup language XML which could have the following structure 

In the example of the flowchart starts at module with a customer submitting a request to a processing system for an account. This could be done by the customer clicking on a link to a financial services provider s website to request a page where she can fill in applicant data.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with the customer sending in application data to the processing system. Once the customer has filled in applicant data she can submit it to the financial services provider. In a non limiting example this could be by submitting a web form.

In the example of the flowchart continues to decision module with determining whether or not the customer is approved. If the result from determination module is NO then the module proceeds to module with declining the application. There the flowchart proceeds to module with transmitting the decline to the customer. Then the flowchart terminates.

In the example of if the result of decision module is YES then the flowchart proceeds to module with transmitting a response including an approval. An approval can be transmitted via a web page or as discussed above in transparent mode. The customer may be provided with her account information.

In the example of the flowchart proceeds to module with the customer funding the account using e.g. an ACH direct deposit. A direct deposit could provide funds from another bank account to the customer s newly associated bank account.

In some embodiments module contains and . In Module the customer is presented with a request for information necessary to make a direct deposit. Such a request could be a web form containing fields directed to account information such as the percentage or amount of direct deposit to be made. From module the flowchart proceeds to module with receiving the customer s direct deposit information to be debited. From module the flowchart proceeds to module with facilitating direct deposit into customer s bank account associated with the financial services provider. In facilitating the direct deposit the financial services provider instructs the customer s to deposit the amount or percentage of the customer s paycheck as specified by the customer in module .

In some embodiments module contains only module . Module facilitates direct deposit of the customer s paycheck into the customer s bank account associated with the financial services provider. In facilitating the direct deposit the financial service provider instructs the customer s employer to deposit an amount or percentage of the customer s paycheck as determined by the customer.

In the example of the flowchart continues to module with the customer accessing her funds e.g. by using a prepaid debit card. In this case the customer is able to use the funds contained in the account to purchase goods and services. Advantageously this allows the customer to purchase goods and services that the customer could not purchase without an account.

As examples of parameters the following items are the applicant data as named First Name Middle Name Last Name Email Street Address City State Zip Birth Date Social Security Number Home Phone Work Phone.

As examples of parameters Card Choice may reflect a decision by the customer as to which card she wants e.g. a Silver MasterCard a Black Mastercard a Black Visa or a Pink Visa. Direct Deposit Available may be set to 1 meaning direct deposit is available through an employer 2 meaning direct deposit is available through a benefits provider 10 meaning Direct Deposit is not available 11 meaning customer is not employed 12 meaning customer does not know if the direct deposit is available or not.

As examples of parameters pCode is a fields which can be set for internal purposes having a format PxxxxCxxxxSxxxx. Sub Code is also a field which can be set for internal purposes. Affiliate can be set to include a referring entity so that credit can be given for lead generation where an Affiliate drives business to the financial services provider. Media Channel can be used to identify a search engine or other channel e.g. Google search Yahoo search. URL may be set to the full signup URL identifying the exact web location where the customer data was collected. Issuing Bank is used to identify one of the plurality of banks which provide the pool of accounts from which to associate a customer with. Transparent Mode may be set to true or false meaning that if true then there is no redirection of the customer to another page and instead an XML response is returned to the applicant. If false then the applicant is redirected to another page where she collects her account information.

In some embodiments get request URL universal resource locator can be formatted to transmit an applicant s application information by formatting the URL in accordance with the parameter format. Under this format a parameter name is followed by the sign which is then followed by a unit of data corresponding to a parameter.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present invention. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention.

