---

title: System and method for generating a unified service model
abstract: In accordance with a particular embodiment of the present disclosure, configuration items are received. The configuration items include configuration data for at least one service. Key indicators are received. The key indicators include metrics for the performance of the service. At least one association is identified between the configuration items and the key indicators. A unified service model is generated based on the association. The unified service model includes at least a graphical representation of the service and service requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08099439&OS=08099439&RS=08099439
owner: Computer Associates Think, Inc.
number: 08099439
owner_city: Islandia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
The present disclosure relates generally to data models and more particularly to a method and system for generating a unified service model.

Organizations deploy information technology IT services to support businesses. For example organizations may deploy business services such as software as a service web services and virtualization services. However deployment of these technologies frequently results in missed service levels cost overruns and low customer satisfaction.

In accordance with the present invention the disadvantages and problems associated with previous techniques may be reduced or eliminated.

In accordance with a particular embodiment of the present disclosure a method includes receiving configuration items. The configuration items include configuration data for at least one service. The method also includes receiving key indicators. The key indicators include metrics for the performance of the service. The method further includes identifying at least one association between the configuration items and the key indicators. The method further includes generating a unified service model based on the association. The unified service model includes at least a graphical representation of the service and service requirements.

Technical advantages of particular embodiments of the present disclosure include a system and method for generating a unified service model that includes a graphical representation of a particular service and service requirements. For example the unified service model may include configuration items that include configuration data for at least one service. The unified service model may include a graphical representation of the configuration items infrastructure assets and service requirements such as a service level agreement SLA .

Further technical advantages of particular embodiments of the present disclosure include a system and method for generating a unified service model where third party services may be integrated. For example the unified service model may implement a common taxonomy for classifying configuration items from third party services. Thus third party services may be integrated into the unified service model and the unified service model may provide a single point of management for different services.

Other technical advantages of the present disclosure will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

As part of business service delivery IT organizations have become focused on demonstrating increased value in areas of service improvement and secure environments. However the complexity of some IT environments prevents many IT organizations from responding quickly to service requirements. Instead IT organizations devote resources to managing different services with limited returns on investment.

In accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure a unified service model is generated that includes a graphical representation of a particular service and service requirements. The unified service model may include a configuration management database for cataloging and defining services a common taxonomy for classifying configuration items and a federated communication interface for receiving requests from different services.

The unified service model may provide a graphical representation to review service performance and adjust investment levels in the service according to service requirements such as service levels budget requirements and risks as examples. The federated communication interface facilitates requests from other services in a network. Therefore the unified service model may integrate different services into a graphical representation. Additional details of example embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail below.

Configuration items may refer to any suitable data received and stored at server . In particular embodiments configuration item may include configuration data for a particular service. For example configuration item may identify assets such as infrastructure assets supporting the particular service. As another example configuration item may identify personnel resources allocated to the particular service.

In particular embodiments configuration item may include interrelationships between other configuration items for the particular service. For example configuration item may identify a priority of an infrastructure asset and may map the asset to the particular service it supports.

Server may refer to any suitable device operable to execute configuration engine and generate a unified service model . Examples of server may include a host computer workstation web server file server a personal computer such as a laptop or any other suitable device. Server may include any operating system such as MS DOS PC DOS MAC OS WINDOWS UNIX or other appropriate operating systems including future operating systems.

Configuration engine may include any suitable logic and or hardware that receives configuration items and stores configuration items in a configuration management database. The configuration management database may be shared by one or more applications. For example the configuration management database may be shared by a support ticket application a network management application an asset management application and a portfolio management application.

In particular embodiments configuration engine may provide a federated communication interface such as a federated application programming interface API . For example the federation communication interface may provide standards that define how services may integrate service data with the configuration management database. In the example federated communication interface facilitates requests from other services in a network. In particular embodiments configuration engine may receive service data through web services.

In particular embodiments configuration engine may receive key indicators. Key indicators may include one or more metrics for the performance of a particular service. For example key indicators may include infrastructure availability data performance data response time data operating expenses and service level agreement SLA compliance.

In particular embodiments configuration engine may identify associations between configuration items and key indicators to generate unified service model . Unified service model may include a graphical representation of a particular service and service requirements. Therefore unified service model provides more information than a typical data model that generally tracks configurations and assets. For example a standard data model may include configuration of infrastructure assets supporting a service. Unified service model provides a graphical representation that may include the budget for delivering a service the personnel assets and projects that support the service and the service levels of the service as examples. Additional details of unified service model are provided with reference to . Additional details of the other components of server are described below.

Processor may refer to any suitable device operable to execute instructions and manipulate data to perform operations for server . Processor may include for example any type of central processing unit CPU .

Memory device may refer to any suitable device operable to store and facilitate retrieval of data and may comprise Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a magnetic drive a disk drive a Compact Disk CD drive a Digital Video Disk DVD drive removable media storage any other suitable data storage medium or a combination of any of the preceding.

Communication interface I F may refer to any suitable device operable to receive input send output perform suitable processing of the input or output or both communicate to other devices or any combination of the preceding. Communication interface may include appropriate hardware e.g. modem network interface card etc. and software including protocol conversion and data processing capabilities to communicate through a LAN WAN or other communication system that allows server to communicate to other devices. Communication interface may include one or more ports conversion software or both.

Output device may refer to any suitable device operable for displaying information to a user. Output device may include for example a video display a printer a plotter or other suitable output device.

Input device may refer to any suitable device operable to input select and or manipulate various data and information. Input device may include for example a keyboard mouse graphics tablet joystick light pen microphone scanner or other suitable input device. Additional details of example embodiments of the disclosure are described in greater detail below in conjunction with portions of and .

As described above configuration items for a service may be stored within a configuration management database. These configuration items may be shared by applications such as a support ticket application a network management application an asset management application and a portfolio management application. Unified service model incorporates integration capabilities and associates configuration items to provide service insight. Examples of this integration are effected in one embodiment by IT governance module business service management module and security management module .

For example IT governance module may include any suitable logic and or hardware to provide governance information for a service. In particular embodiments IT governance module may include a business case for a service a service catalog that includes assets supporting a service a service definition and risk assessments for a service as examples.

As another example business service management module may include any suitable logic and or hardware that provides management information for a service. In particular embodiments business service management module may include infrastructure assets and a service the assets support SLAs and monitoring criteria to manage a service as examples. In particular embodiments business service management module may include issue tracking to log track manage and service issues. In particular embodiments business service management module may manage change management to services.

As another example security management module may include any suitable logic and or hardware that provides security information for a service. In particular embodiments security management module may include policy based controls and identity management information as examples. In particular embodiments security management module may automate identity management including identity creation modification and deletion. In particular embodiments security management module may mitigate threats by identifying threats determine which assets are affected and take immediate steps to resolve the threat.

As an example of the operation of IT governance module business service management module and security management module if a user experiences an issue with the service the user may open a support ticket on the service. The support technicians may have direct access to the security management module to identify a threat and they can make quick decisions to restore service.

In particular embodiments the support technicians may also use unified service model to access federated information in the monitoring solutions such as a network management application an asset management application and a portfolio management application. Information on the configuration items is accessible in a service definition which can be viewed through IT governance module . In addition the SLAs may be available through the business service management module to analyze how these issues impact the service level.

As described above unified service model improves problem analysis by incorporating information from IT governance module a business service management module and a security management module to presenting a graphical representation of the service and the service requirements. However it should be noted that in particular embodiments unified service model may include some all or none of the enumerated modules. Unified service model may include other well known modules. For example unified service model may include a module to provide service inventory budget requirements and availability metrics of the service. The metrics provided by the module may facilitate a quantitative assessment of services performed and the context for achieving the service requirements.

At step associations between configuration items and key indicators are identified. For example associations may be identified regarding the costs of delivering a service the people and projects that support the service and the service levels of the service as examples. At step a unified service model is generated. The unified service model includes at least a graphical representation of a service and service requirements. For example based on the identified associations the unified service model may include configuration items that define a particular service and it may include infrastructure status as measured against business defined service requirements such as an SLA.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the present disclosure is not intended to be limited in any way by any statement in the specification that is not otherwise reflected in the claims.

