---

title: Synthesizing information-bearing content from multiple channels
abstract: A computing system and method receive a query; separate a plurality of information sources into individual elements of content (EOC); tag each EOC with metadata that indicate source, date, and other relevant information; pattern match each EOC; calculate the respective distance function from every EOC to every other EOC; and output EOC to a set of virtual buffers () containing appropriately related EOC less than a given distance value. The method further creates virtual summary buffers (); then concatenates the EOC in each virtual buffer (); applies a comparative analysis filter () to remove redundant sub-elements; and presents the results as summary digests ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945564&OS=07945564&RS=07945564
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07945564
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080814
---
This is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 044 720 filed Jan. 11 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 117 200 and application Ser. No. 11 523 104 filed Sep. 19 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 512 598. The entire content and disclosure of application Ser. Nos. 10 044 720 and 11 523 104 are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention generally relates to the field of computer based search systems and more particularly relates to a system and method for synthesizing information bearing content from multiple channels.

The explosive growth of content available on the World Wide Web has led to an increased demand and opportunity for a means of collaborating information. People are increasingly finding it difficult to sort through the great mass of content available with apparent relevance to even a narrowly defined need. They are overwhelmed with information and greatly desire appropriate tools or services that can aggregate relevant content and produce appropriate distillations or summarizations. Further the ease with which content can be made available on the Internet along with the greater speed with which raw content is generally made available has created a greater than ever need for efficient means of judging the correctness of information. Strictly human based editorial judgment is becoming no longer viable or desirable.

A typical search engine possesses a user interface with a search window where the user enters an alphanumeric search expression or keywords. The search engine sifts through a database of information for the user s search terms and returns the search results in the form of HTML pages. Each search result includes a list of individual entries that have been identified by the search engine as satisfying the user s search expression. Each entry or hit includes a hyperlink that points to a location within the database. In addition to the hyperlink certain search engine result pages include a summary or abstract that describes the content of the document. Other information may also be returned as part of a search result in response to a user s request.

Although search engines have made tremendous strides at improvement in recent years the tremendous volume of the content simply makes the search engine cumbersome to use. The user is forced to manually sort through a long list of results to try and determine what is most important to him. Additionally many of the results returned contain the same information making it even more difficult to find the true article of interest.

Therefore a need exists to overcome the problems with the prior art as discussed above and particularly for a method of synthesizing the information bearing content from multiple channels into condensed digests in order to maximize efficiency of a search.

According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention a computing system and method receives a query separates a plurality of information sources into individual elements of content EOC and calculates a respective distance function from every EOC to every other EOC for each combination of two EOC. The system and method further pre define each buffer within a plurality of virtual buffers to contain EOC that all have respective distance functions between each other of less than a given distance value. At least one buffer within the plurality of buffers is pre defined based upon the query. The system and method further provide each of the EOC to a respective associated virtual buffer within the plurality of virtual buffers based upon the respective distance functions between the each of the EOC and EOC previously provided to that respective associated virtual buffer. The system and method also provide the contents of at least one selected virtual buffer.

The present invention according to a preferred embodiment overcomes problems with the prior art by leveraging the growing capabilities of computational power and available bandwidth to automate both the functions of content aggregation summarization and editorial judgment. A preferred embodiment further leverages technology related to automated video indexing and content extraction e.g. via speech to text or phoneme recognition to allow for one to manipulate evaluate and judge video based content.

According to a preferred embodiment several content channels are summarized into domain independent digests. The central concept relates to analyzing mutually similar elements of content EOC to generate digests or new EOC which reflect the degree of corroboration DOC or other comparative measure between the original EOC. The original EOC and the derived digests may comprise at least one of text video audio video speech signals and digital media. Digital media generally includes all forms of content that are represented in computer readable form and including content in digital format.

As an example suppose an earthquake is reported in the news. Numerous articles would be found in multiple sources and most of the important information will be somewhat similar in all the sources. Instead of showing numerous hits for the same basic premise the details would be summarized into several condensed digests containing different topics relevant to the earthquake e.g. the financial impact of the earthquake. The user would have a much easier time finding relevant information in the digests.

Each computer system may include inter alia one or more computers and at least a computer readable medium . The computers preferably include means for reading and or writing to the computer readable medium . The computer readable medium allows a computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable storage medium for example may include non volatile memory such as Floppy ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. It is useful for example for transporting information such as data and computer instructions between computer systems.

The computer system according to the present example includes a controller processor shown in which processes instructions performs calculations and manages the flow of information through the computer system . Additionally the controller processor is communicatively coupled with program memory . Included within program memory are a digest synthesizing application which will be discussed in later in greater detail operating system platform and glue software . The operating system platform manages resources such as the data stored in data memory the scheduling of tasks and processes the operation of the digest synthesizing application in the program memory . The operating system platform also manages a graphical display interface not shown a user input interface not shown that receives inputs from the keyboard and the mouse and communication network interfaces not shown for communicating with the network link . Additionally the operating system platform also manages many other basic tasks of the computer system in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Glue software may include drivers stacks and low level application programming interfaces API s and provides basic functional components for use by the operating system platform and by compatible applications that run on the operating system platform for managing communications with resources and processes in the computing system .

After the user has requested a keyword search the query handler is invoked from the user interface event manager to initiate the user s search request. Alternatively input to the query handler could be provided via a browsing mode of an Internet browser or any other user interface dialog form or application or an agent that pushes relevant summarized information to a user based on a user profile. Input to the query handler can preferably be a text based search query.

The query handler then invokes the digest synthesizing application to use the preferably text based search query as an input filter for a plurality of information sources. The system performs a search for relevant sources related to the query. Any method for web search such as those used by current and future search engines can be used for this matter. The plurality of information sources could be a plurality of content channels or additionally a plurality of related stories delivered on a single channel at different periods of time. The output of the input filter is a stream of tagged EOC elements . A pattern matching filter performs a pattern matching or similar function on the EOC data stream and provides EOC to a set of virtual buffers where each virtual buffer contains a set of appropriately related EOC. A distance calculator computes a set of distances from every EOC to every other EOC. Each of the virtual buffers is then made to contain an EOC and every EOC that is less than a certain distance from it.

Optionally virtual buffers may be followed by processing to create virtual summary buffers which serve to create summaries or perform other advantageous preprocessing which supports the comparative analysis filter .

The content of each virtual buffer or virtual summary buffer is passed through a comparative analysis filter which analyzes the mutually close EOC and based on a set of heuristics including natural language processing algorithms rule based algorithms and other decision criteria provides a set of digests . In a preferred example the system may sort sentences according to their score where the score will be higher for sentences that appear in many independent sources. The sentence doesn t need to be identical in which case the existence of sub elements such as words term and or numbers in the suspected similar sentences can calculated. Numbers are actually of special importance as they may reflect financial implications of the reported incidents or the number of persons affected by it. It is expected that these number may be modified or updated from time to time and thus a fluctuation range can be defined such as 10 so that even different numbers within the range can still be accounted as mutually collaborative. For example if one source said 

Alternatively it may perform an average on the number reported from several inputs and or give more weight for those which contain a more recent date time attribute or to source of information that has proven more reliable from previous searches.

Means for segmenting or extracting discrete elements of content from text based sources are known in the art. Examples include U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 657 Text segmentation identification of topic using language models filed Nov. 25 1997 which describes means for segmenting text and identifying topics contained therein that match a user query and U.S. Pat. No. 5 806 021 Automatic segmentation of continuous text using statistical approaches filed Sep. 4 1996 which discloses two statistical methods for segmenting continuous text sources the entire teachings of which collectively are hereby incorporated by reference. The first method simple and rapid but is more error prone than the second. The second which uses statistical language models is more reliable and accurate but it is also more computationally intensive.

A pattern matching filter at step performs a pattern matching or similar function on the EOC data stream . The pattern matching concept applies not only to an exact text match but to a concept match. For example a query of International news will be matched to an item such as President Bush visited in Paris . In this case there is a semantic element to the pattern matching filter in that the system must know that Paris is associated with another nation that a Presidential visit is important etc.

In a preferred sub embodiment a distance function is defined so that a distance calculator at step can compute a set of distances from each EOC to every other EOC. Then at step the EOC are provided to a set of virtual buffers where each virtual buffer contains a set of appropriately related EOC. Each of the virtual buffers contains an EOC and every EOC that is less than a certain distance from it. Optionally EOC may be made to expire after a particular threshold e.g. its age is exceeded. Naturally a given EOC may be contained in a plurality of virtual buffers.

The grouping of EOC by mutual distance will lead to various data structures depending on the precise nature of the data. For highly heterogeneous data the grouping may coalesce into sharply defined and distinct EOC groupings. For less heterogeneous data however the boundaries may be fuzzy and it will be non trivial to define EOC groupings.

Optionally in step processing to create virtual summary buffers from the virtual buffers may follow. Means for summarization of text based sources are also known in the art. Examples include 

U.S. Pat. No. 5 918 240 Automatic method of extracting summarization using feature probabilities filed Jun. 28 1995 

U.S. Pat. No. 5 077 668 Method and apparatus for producing an abstract of a document filed Sep. 28 1989 

The content of each virtual buffer or virtual summary buffer is passed through a comparative analysis filter which analyzes the mutually close EOC and based on a set of heuristics outputs a set of digests .

These digests will comprise EOC formats that benefit from such comparative analysis such as summaries highly corroborated findings of fact trailers e.g. the most vibrant or exciting details of a set of EOC and updates e.g. all related information released within the last 48 hours .

An example of a preferred means for producing a set of summary digests from the virtual buffers or comprises at step concatenating the EOC included in the virtual buffer or and then at step applying a comparative analysis filter to remove redundant sub elements. Sub elements that are determined to be substantially similar to each other by knowledge management techniques e.g. those involving distance functions known in the art are used to derive an appropriate degree of corroboration DOC which provides an indication of the value of that sentence. The acceptable degree of similarity present in order for two sub elements to be considered similar is determined by setting a threshold the value of which is used to fine tune the process of creating the summary digests. Identical content from apparently different sources is filtered however these identical reports are counted and contribute to the EOC DOC value. Another threshold indicating the degree redundancy which must be present for a representative sub element to be included in the summary digest i.e. the maximum distance value may also be included.

A preferred embodiment at step then synthesizes summary digests by tracing back to the original EOC and then extracting the content with a high DOC value in context i.e. extracting surrounding content so that the synthesized summary is more intelligible. For preferred embodiments involving video or audio input closed captions when available speech recognition technology may be applied to the audio track of the source to produce textual information that may be used to generate DOC measures.

A preferred means for presenting the summary digest at step is to color code each sub element of content based on the number of EOC containing that particular sub element or sub elements substantially similar to that particular sub element. For example a red font might indicate that content substantially similar to that sub element appeared in greater than 50 of the relevant EOC a yellow font might indicted the corresponding appearance was between 25 and 50 a blue font might indicate appearance between 5 and 25 and a gray font might indicate appearance less than 5 .

Users are able to search on these digests based on their content the metadata they carry and their format. The digests are updated on a dynamic basis. In addition to the format of the digest the user may specify an approximate length of the digest. This will factor into thresholding characteristics of the filter that produces the digests from the dynamic content in the virtual buffers or .

The digests preferably contain both aggregate and more individualized metadata. For example the digest as a whole will be assigned a degree of corroboration DOC which provides a measure of how highly corroborated the content is. Furthermore users may query with regard to the effective DOC of individual components of the digest or even be directed to some of the original sources. The metadata structure should be designed to enable such functionality.

In an exemplary embodiment a database or index may be maintained which reflects the historical DOC data of content available from individual publishers or other information providers or aggregators. These historical data can be used to weight future DOC data appropriately resulting in improved reliability rankings through a self learning process. These data are also used to generate valuable lists and rankings of content sources.

The present invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. A system according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program means or computer program in the present context mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and b reproduction in a different material form.

Each computer system may include inter alia one or more computers and at least a computer readable medium allowing a computer to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may include non volatile memory such as ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. Additionally a computer medium may include for example volatile storage such as RAM buffers cache memory and network circuits. Furthermore the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments and it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

