---

title: Collaboration agent
abstract: A collaboration agent for facilitating real-time communications on behalf of a user. The collaboration agent includes a conference bridge that anchors calls to the conference bridge. The collaboration agent uses contextual information associated with the user to manage the real-time communications. The collaboration agent can communicate with other collaboration agents associated with other users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060563&OS=08060563&RS=08060563
owner: Nortel Networks Limited
number: 08060563
owner_city: Mississauga, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20081229
---
This invention relates generally to communications and in particular to a collaboration agent for managing real time communications on behalf of a user.

Managing real time communications such as telephone calls text messages and instant messaging IM messages can be time consuming and frustrating at times. In a business environment individuals frequently feel compelled to respond to real time communications as quickly as possible but may be unable to do so because the individuals are currently engaged in communicating with someone else. For example an individual may be using a work phone to participate in a conference call when the individual is alerted that a call is coming in on a second line of the work phone. Other than observe the calling party s phone number there is little the individual can do. The calling party may then attempt to call the individual s cell phone and when that is similarly unsuccessful in reaching the individual attempt to send the individual a text message or an instant message. The individual may be aware of each of these attempts by the calling party to reach the individual but be unable to communicate with the calling party without disrupting the conference call. When the conference call is over the individual may have to contact multiple voice messaging systems to determine whether or not the calling party left a message and the purpose of the call. The individual may only later learn that the calling party had an urgent need to contact the individual for a reason that had the individual been aware of it would have caused the individual to terminate participation in the conference call to accept the call from the calling party.

Business environments frequently have one or more sources of information that are useful in determining an individual s availability presence or location. For example most business environments enable their employees to use an electronic calendar to schedule and keep track of meetings. For a particular meeting the electronic calendar may include information such as a time and date of the meeting the attendees of the meeting and a physical location or dial in information associated with the meeting. Business environments may also enable their employees to communicate with each other via instant messaging which may include features such as presence indicators which can be used to indicate availability and willingness to communicate states of the respective employee. While aspects of these information sources may be visible to other users of the same application they are not typically used in a real time application that manages voice communications and other real time communications. However such information may be very valuable in establishing and facilitating communications between individuals. For example in the example provided previously had the calling party reached a service that could access the individual s electronic calendar the calling party may have been able to determine another time they would be likely to reach the individual. Alternately had the calling party reached a service that could indicate the individual was present in their office based on presence information associated with the individual the calling party may have been able to simply walk to the individual s office. In general it would be extremely helpful in today s business environment if an intelligent agent could help manage an individual s real time communications based on information maintained about the individual in one or more information sources.

The present invention relates to a collaboration agent that manages real time communications on behalf of a user. The collaboration agent includes a bridge sometimes referred to as a conference bridge and a contextual information interface adapted to obtain information about the user such as availability location or presence. The collaboration agent anchors calls associated with the user to the conference bridge in a network rather than a user device. The user can interface with the collaboration agent via one or more end user devices. The collaboration agent can interface with other collaboration agents to facilitate communications between associated users. For example the collaboration agent can receive requests from other collaboration agents for available times during which the associated user is available for a conversation.

According to one embodiment of the invention the collaboration agent includes a speech recognition processor for receiving commands from the user. The collaboration agent also includes an ability to communicate with the user or other users via text to speech processing speech generation or playing recorded messages. The collaboration agent establishes communications sessions between the conference bridge and a user device associated with the user and other conference bridges associated with other users. The collaboration agent can mix multiple communications sessions associated with the conference bridge together or can keep certain communications sessions separate from other communications sessions. The collaboration agent can deliver an audio signal to a user from multiple sources while preventing each source from hearing the audio associated with the other source.

According to one embodiment of the invention the collaboration agent obtains meeting information from a calendar associated with the user via the contextual information interface. The collaboration agent can use the meeting information to remind the user of imminent or existing meetings of which the user is an attendee. The collaboration agent can also automatically connect the user to another conference bridge associated with another user based on the meeting information and indicate to the user they have been joined to the other conference bridge without direction from the user.

According to another embodiment of the invention the collaboration agent can receive a request from a second user to establish a communications session between the conference bridge of the user and the conference bridge of the second user. The collaboration agent can determine from meeting information obtained via the contextual information interface that the user has a meeting scheduled at or substantially near the time of the request and that the second user is an attendee of the meeting. The collaboration agent can automatically establish the communications session between the conference bridge of the first user and the conference bridge of the second user based on the meeting information and the identity of the second user.

According to yet another embodiment of the invention the collaboration agent can receive a request to establish a first communications session between the conference bridge of the user and a second conference bridge of a second user for the purposes of enabling the second user to communicate with the first user. The collaboration agent determines that the first user is not present and is travelling on business. The collaboration agent successfully establishes a second communications session between the conference bridges of the users and indicates that the second user desires to speak with the user. Upon receiving an indication from the user the collaboration agent enables communications between the first communications session and the second communications session while maintaining the directory number of the user confidential.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The present invention enables real time and near real time communications such as telephone calls instant messaging IM messages and text messages e.g. Short Message Service SMS messages to be managed on a user s behalf by an intelligent controller referred to herein as a collaboration agent which preferably operates in conjunction with other collaboration agents to simplify manage and facilitate communications between respective users. While the invention described herein has primary applicability in a business environment and will be discussed in the context of a business environment those skilled in the art will recognize applicability of the invention in other environments and the invention is not limited to use in a business environment.

The collaboration agent includes a control system that includes a conventional or proprietary operating system capable of executing one or more programs loaded into a memory that contain instructions suitable for carrying out the functionality described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention the collaboration agent comprises a media application server. The collaboration agent interfaces to contextual information that can include for example presence information location information or calendar information . The presence information can comprise any suitable information that indicates a presence state of the user or that implies a presence state of the user . For example many IM applications enable a user to indicate a presence state such as available busy out to lunch and the like. The collaboration agent can communicate with respective IM applications to obtain such presence information via any suitable protocols such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP and the like. Alternately the collaboration agent may be able to infer a presence through other information. For example when the user device is off hook the collaboration agent may infer a presence state of busy for the user .

The location information can include any information that identifies or implies a location of the user . For example the collaboration agent may interface with a Global Positioning System GPS device associated with the user or be able to determine a location through cellular telephone triangulation techniques known to those skilled in the art. Alternately some enterprises provide employees Radio Frequency Identification RFID tags that monitor the physical location of an employee and provide that information to a central database or monitor devices used by the user in a similar manner. Alternately the user may set a location to indicate that they are in the office at home in the car and the like.

The calendar information comprises information associated with a respective electronic calendar or other activity tracking mechanism of the user . Electronic calendars are widely used today to reserve meetings with other users . Electronic calendars such as Microsoft Outlook enable users with sufficient privileges to exchange meeting requests and reserve time slots on other users electronic calendars upon demand. Meeting requests typically include information such as the attendees of the meeting location or dial in information associated with the meeting starting time and expected ending time of the meeting and the like. Calendar information can be obtained by the collaboration agent using an appropriate application programming interface provided by the respective calendar provider such as a Microsoft Outlook Application Programming Interface MAPI Google Calendar API or a standard iCal calendar interface. While the presence information the location information and the calendar information are shown separately in for purposes of illustration each of the presence information the location information and the calendar information constitute contextual information and similar contextual information may come from one or more of the presence information the location information and the calendar information . For example the collaboration agent may infer presence and availability by examining whether the user is involved in a meeting from obtaining the calendar information .

While calendar presence and location information are provided as examples of contextual information used in the present invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited thereto. Any type of contextual information that may be accessible to the collaboration agent for determining availability of a respective user may be used. For example the collaboration agent may use profile information associated with a cellular telephone of the user that is accessible by the collaboration agent or electronic records identifying the user as being on or off duty for example.

The collaboration agent interfaces and controls the conference bridge via one or more suitable protocols such as Call Control Extensible Markup Language CCXML Media Resource Control Protocol MRCP Media Server Control mediactrl and the like. The collaboration agent uses the conference bridge as an anchor point for communications sessions associated with the user . The conference bridge includes a mixer and enables certain communications sessions joined to the conference bridge to be coupled with other communications sessions joined to the conference bridge as desired. For example a first communications session may exist between the user device and the conference bridge and a second communications session may exist between the conference bridge and another conference bridge associated with another user . The first and second communications sessions are joined together to enable the users to converse with one another. The collaboration agent may determine that a meeting obtained from the calendar information begins in five minutes. The collaboration agent can use the first communications session to inform the user of the imminent meeting without enabling the audio signals to be provided to the second communications session so that the other user is unaware that the first user received an audible reminder of an imminent meeting.

Another example of the mixing features of the conference bridge includes the ability for certain users to hear the audio signals of some users but not other users . For example assume that a first user has organized a first conference call with a first group of users on the conference bridge for 9 00 am 10 00 am and a second conference call with a second group of users on the conference bridge for 10 00 am 11 00 am. At 9 55 am before the first conference call has concluded a third user from the second group of users is joined to the conference bridge for the second conference call beginning at 10 00 am. However because the third user is not an attendee of the first conference call the conference bridge does not provide the audio signals from the communications sessions associated with the first group of users to the third user awaiting the second conference call. The conference bridge may announce to the first user associated with the conference bridge that the third user has joined the conference bridge and awaits the 10 00 am call. The conference bridge can enable the first user to welcome the third user and advise the third user that the call will be beginning shortly while simultaneously preventing the second group of users from hearing the discussion between the first user and the third user .

Anchoring calls to the conference bridge provides several notable features as will be discussed herein. For example if the user determines that they need to switch from a work phone to a cellular phone in the middle of a conversation the individual or individuals with whom the user is currently speaking via communications sessions joined to the conference bridge need not redial or be inconvenienced. The user only needs to establish a new communications session between the cell pone and the conference bridge . The new communications session can be initiated by the user dialing a telephone number associated with the conference bridge or the collaboration agent or by asking the collaboration agent to initiate a call to the cell phone associated with the user .

The collaboration agent receives textual communications such as IM and text messages and can provide them to the user based on the contextual information associated with the user . For example assume that the user is driving home from the office and the collaboration agent receives an IM message for the user . The collaboration agent can obtain contextual information and determine that the user is no longer in the office. The collaboration agent can use the conference bridge to attempt to contact the user via the user s cell phone. Assuming that the user answers the cell phone the collaboration agent can provide a prerecorded message to the user saying An IM message has arrived. The collaboration agent couples the communications session between the conference bridge and the user device to the speech processing interface . The user may say read the message. The speech processing interface detects the command read and provides this information to the collaboration agent . The collaboration agent uses text to speech processing to read the IM message to the user . The user may reply Send IM. Thanks for the message I agree. The collaboration agent via the speech processing interface recognizes the command to create and send an IM message and uses speech to text processing to convert the speech Thanks for the message I agree to a textual format. The collaboration agent then responds to the IM message with an IM message saying Thanks for the message I agree. 

The collaboration agent A can communicate with the collaboration agent B on behalf of the user A as appropriate. For example the collaboration agent B may initiate a request to open a voice communications session between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B to enable the user B to converse with the user A. However the collaboration agent A may determine that the user A is currently on the phone and may determine from the calendar information A that the user A is engaged in a meeting until 3 00 PM but is available at 3 00 PM for a conversation with the user B. The collaboration agent A can send a message to the user B that the user A is not available but that the user A can speak with the user B at 3 00 PM. The collaboration agent B can determine if the user B is available at 3 00 PM and if so can confirm a meeting with the collaboration agent A and each collaboration agent A and B can update the respective calendar to record the meeting at 3 00 PM. Each collaboration agent may have rules or filters than can affect how the collaboration agent manages or facilitates a real time communication based on a particular criterion. For example assume in the previous example the user B is the manager of the user A. The user A may set up a rule stating that any attempts from the user B to contact the user A are to be communicated to the user A if the user A is present at a user device . In this example the collaboration agent A may then whisper or communicate to the user A via the conference bridge A that the user B is attempting to contact the user A. The whisper can not be heard by the other participants of the call in which the user A is currently engaged. The user A may determine that his presence is not needed on the call terminate his participation in the call and indicate to the collaboration agent A to establish the communications session between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B to enable the user B to communicate with the user A.

The collaboration agent is preferably always executing on behalf of the user . Thus the collaboration agent even during non work hours can make decisions on behalf of the user to either arrange meetings in the future or attempt to contact the user based on criteria associated with a respective real time communication.

The collaboration agent A recognizes a command from the user A and prompts the user A for a particular command. The user A indicates a desire to contact the user B by identifying the user B by name step . The collaboration agent A searches a contacts list associated with the user A for the name of the user B step . If the collaboration agent A cannot locate the name of the user B in the contacts list step the collaboration agent A may refer to an enterprise wide directory such as a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP directory step . Assume that the collaboration agent A finds multiple names that are similar or identical to the name of the user B step . The collaboration agent A can provide via the first communications session A a message to the user A requesting clarification such as for example a last name associated with the user B to remove the ambiguity step . The user A can indicate the complete name of the user B removing the ambiguity. The collaboration agent A can pull or otherwise extract a collaboration agent profile associated with the collaboration agent B from a database configured to store public profiles of users step . The collaboration agent A can obtain an address of the collaboration agent B by for example by using the identity of the user B in a directory lookup as is known by those skilled in the art. The collaboration agent A issues a QueryAvailability request to the collaboration agent B step .

The collaboration agent A receives a request from the collaboration agent B that includes one or more of presence information B location information B or calendar information B step . If from the provided information the collaboration agent A determines that the user B is available for communication the collaboration agent A can issue an AuthorizeCommunication request to the collaboration agent B step . The collaboration agent B may review one or more rules associated with the user A and for example contact the user B to determine whether the user B desires to communicate with the user A. Assume that the collaboration agent B has determined that the user B desires to speak to the user A. Therefore the collaboration agent B sends a response indicating an approval to talk with the user A indicating that a voice channel is a desired communications mechanism step . The collaboration agents A B then initiate a communications session C between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B enabling the user A to communicate via the conference bridges A B and communications sessions A B C step .

Assume that the collaboration agent B is able to establish a communications session B between the conference bridge B and a user device B associated with the user B. The collaboration agent B informs the collaboration agent A to establish a communications session C between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B enabling the user A to converse with the user B step . Alternately if the user B could not be reached by the collaboration agent B the collaboration agent B can inform the collaboration agent A that the user B is currently unavailable step . At this point the collaboration agents A B could exchange one or more requests such as FindFreeMeeting ReserveMeeting NotifyWhenAvailable or LeaveVoiceMessage requests. The FindFreeMeeting and ReserveMeeting requests can be used by the collaboration agents A B to obtain calendar information and negotiate a time for a meeting when both users A B are available for a meeting and to reserve the negotiated time on the respective calendars associated with the users A B. The NotifyWhenAvailable request can be used to indicate to the collaboration agent B to notify the collaboration agent A when the contextual information B associated with the user B indicates that the user B is present and available. Upon notification the collaboration agent A can inform the user A that the user B appears to be present and available enabling the user A to again attempt to contact the user B. The LeaveVoiceMessage request can be used to enable the user A to leave a voice mail message for the user B.

The collaboration agent A then receives a request from the collaboration agent B to establish a communications session between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B step . The collaboration agent A obtains meeting information from the calendar information A step . The collaboration agent A determines that the user B is an attendee of the meeting that is imminent step . The collaboration agent A establishes a communications session between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B enabling the user B to participate in the meeting at the time of the meeting step . The collaboration agent A also whispers to the user A via the first communications session A that the user B has joined the conference bridge A step .

The user A initiates a command to the collaboration agent A requesting additional information such as the nature of the call from the user B step . The collaboration agent A establishes a communications session C between the conference bridge A and the conference bridge B step and provides the question from the user A to the user B via the communications session C step . The user B responds with a reply to the request and the collaboration agent A provides the audio signals from the user B to the first communications session A so that the user A can hear the response from the user B step . The user A indicates approval to the collaboration agent A for a conversation with the user B step . The collaboration agent A enables communications between the communications session A and the communications session C to enable the user A to converse with the user B step .

According to another embodiment of the present invention the collaboration agent A enables the user A to monitor a plurality of conference calls simultaneously. For purposes of illustration assume that the user A is attending a first conference call via the conference bridge A. Assume that the first conference call is scheduled from 9 00 am to 11 00 am. Assume that the user A also has a second conference call that he is expected to attend that is scheduled from 10 00 am to 11 00 am. At 10 00 am the collaboration agent A initiates a communications session with the conference bridge that is hosting the second conference call. The collaboration agent A informs the user A that he has been joined to the second conference call and mutes the outgoing audio associated with the first conference call so that attendees of the first conference call cannot hear the user A and enables bidirectional audio on the second conference call so that the user A can indicate his presence to the attendees of the second conference call. The user A can then issue a command to the collaboration agent A to monitor the second conference call and the collaboration agent A can enable bidirectional communications again for the first conference call and inhibit outgoing audio for the second conference call so that attendees of the second conference call cannot hear the user A or the first conference call. The user A can now participate fully in the first conference call while simultaneously monitoring the second conference call. Assume further that the user A determines that he must respond to a remark made on the second conference call. The user A issues a command to the collaboration agent A and in response the collaboration agent A inhibits the outgoing audio associated with the first conference call and enables bi directional audio with the second conference call. The user A speaks to the attendees of the second conference call and the attendees of the first conference call cannot hear the user A although the user A can continue to hear the audio associated with the first conference call simultaneously while the user A fully participates in the second conference call.

If desired the collaboration agent A can issue a prerecorded message to either conference call as the user A moves from active to passive participation. For example when the user A indicates he desires to speak to the attendees of the second conference call the collaboration agent A may play a message to the attendees of the first conference call that indicates that the user A is departing the conference call temporarily. When the user A returns to full participation in the first conference call the collaboration agent A can issue another prerecorded message to the attendees of the first conference call that the user A has returned to the conference call.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

