---

title: Hyperbaric treatment in wound healing
abstract: This invention relates to methods for treating chronic dermal ulcers using hyperbaric treatment in combination with progenitor cells and chemokine homing factors. Specifically, the invention relates to treatment of chronic wounds resulting from diabetes mellitus using compositions comprising EPC and SDF-1A, under hyperbaric condition to accelerate wound healing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08440617&OS=08440617&RS=08440617
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08440617
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080321
---
This application is a National Phase Application of PCT International Application PCT US08 03760 filed Mar. 21 2008 priority to United States Provisional Patent Application 60 907 147 filed Mar. 22 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in it s entirety.

This invention was supported in part by Grant Number 1 R01 DK071084 and K 01 HL073145 from the NIH. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention is directed to methods for treating chronic dermal ulcers using hyperbaric treatment in combination with progenitor cells and chemokine homing factors. Specifically the invention relates to treatment of chronic wounds resulting from diabetes mellitus using compositions comprising EPC and SDF 1A under hyperbaric condition to accelerate wound healing.

Diabetes mellitus encompases a range of conditions characterized by an elevation of blood glucose level and is divided into two principal varieties. Type 1 accounts for less than 10 of all diabetics and is due to an autoimmune attack on the pancreatic cells that results in their destruction. Type 2 diabetics exhibit impairments of both insulin secretion and insulin action. Type 2 diabetes has reached epidemic proportions in Western societies and is predicted to affect 300 million people worldwide by 2025. Nearly 800 000 new cases of diabetes mellitus are diagnosed per year in the United States and approximately 15 of patients will develop a lower extremity ulceration at some point in their lives. It has been estimated that up to 2 million Americans suffer from non healing lower extremity wounds accounting for 162 500 annual hospitalizations and one billion dollars per year in health care costs in the United States.

The pathophysiology of diabetic lower extremity ulcerations and delayed healing has been well described. Contributing factors include progressive development of asensory vasomotor and autonomic neuropathy leading to loss of protective sensation joint and bone deformities that increase plantar foot pressure and alterations in autoregulation of dermal blood flow. Diabetics show earlier development and progression of lower extremity peripheral arterial occlusive disease PAD with a predilection for the trifurcation level of vessels just distal to the knee. In addition the tissue microcirculation is severely diseased microangiopathy even in patients with patent proximal vessels. Some of these vascular complications as well as the healing defects in diabetes have been associated with a decrease in number and function of circulating BMD EPC. Impaired host responses to infection and other cellular dysfunctions also contribute to the refractory nature of diabetic wounds. About 20 of diabetic lower extremity ulcers have arterial flow insufficiency as their primary etiology approximately 50 will have primary diabetic neuropathy and about 30 will have both conditions.

Despite a multidisciplinary approach associating glycemia control daily local care foot off loading antibiotic therapy and surgical revascularization treatment of diabetic ulcers is often prolonged intensive and costly and treatment failures are common. Current approaches include debridement frequent changes of wound dressing specially fitted footwear oral or intravenous antibiotics complete bed rest lengthy hospitalization and surgical revascularization. Ulcer related complications can in some cases require amputation. Therefore there is a need for treatments which accelerate the rate of the healing of chronic dermal skin ulcers in general and of diabetic ulcers in particular.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method of increasing endothelial progenitor cell numbers EPC in a wound of a subject comprising mobilizing endothelial progenitor cells and homing the endothelial progenitor cells into the wound thereby increasing EPC numbers in a wound of a diabetic subject.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising increasing release of endothelial progenitor cells from a bone marrow of said subject and attracting the endothelial progenitor cells into the wound thereby accelerating a wound healing in the subject.

In one embodiment the invention provides a composition for accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine its isomer its metabolite or a salt thereof wherein said endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine attract endothelial progenitor cells into the wound thereby accelerating wound healing.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of accelerating wound healing in a subject comprising the step of increasing eNOS expression or function thereby increasing endothelial progenitor cells EPC release from bone marrow.

In one embodiment the invention provides for the use of a compound that upregulates or activates SDF 1 for accelerating wound healing in a subject.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description examples and figures. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

This invention relates in one embodiment to methods for treating chronic dermal ulcers using hyperbaric oxygen enriched treatment in combination with progenitor cells and chemokine homing factors. In another embodiment the invention relates to treatment of chronic wounds resulting from diabetes mellitus using compositions comprising EPC and SDF 1A under hyperbaric condition to accelerate wound healing.

In one embodiment contributing factors to aetiology of chronic diabetic wounds include progressive development of a sensory or in another embodiment vasomotor and autonomic neuropathy leading to loss of protective sensation deformity that increases plantar foot pressure and in certain other embodiments alterations in autoregulation of dermal blood flow. In one embodiment diabetics show earlier development and progression of lower extremity peripheral arterial occlusive disease with a predilection for the trifurcation level of vessels just distal to the knee. In another embodiment the tissue microcirculation is severely diseased microangiopathy even in patients with patent proximal vessels. Impaired host response to infection and other cellular dysfunctions also contribute to the refractory nature of wound healing.

In one embodiment normal wound healing proceeds through removal of necrotic debris and infection resolution of inflammation repair of the connective tissue matrix angiogenesis and resurfacing. In one embodiment problem or chronic wounds refer to those wounds that fail to follow this sequence and do not achieve a sustained anatomic and functional result. In another embodiment fibroblast recruitment collagen deposition angiogenesis and intracellular leukocyte bacterial killing are oxygen sensitive responses involved with normal wound healing. When hypoxia is pathologically increased in one embodiment wound healing is impaired and the rate of wound infection increases. In another embodiment an essential part of normal healing is the formation of new vessels within the provisional wound matrix that is referred to as granulation tissue formation.

Neovascularization of wound granulation tissue occurs in one embodiment by the processes of angiogenesis or in another embodiment by vasculogenesis. The term angiogenesis refers in one embodiment to the process by which resident endothelial cells of the wound s adjacent mature vascular network proliferate and in other embodiments migrate and remodel into neovessels that grow into the initially avascular wound tissue aided by mature stromal cells such as fibroblasts. In another embodiment the term vasculogenesis refers to a de novo process by which EPC recruited to the wound differentiate into endothelial cells and give rise to a replacement vascular network. In one embodiment EPC has a critical role in ischemic wound healing. Accordingly and in one embodiment the methods and compositions provided herein are used for stromageneis or in another embodiment collagen deposition or in another embodiment angiogenesis or in another embodiment vasculogenesis in a wound comprising administrating to the subject SDF 1 or in another embodiment stimulating eNOS release according to the methods provided herein. Each one of the vasculogenesis or angiogenesis or stromageneis or collagen deposition would be readily recognized by a person skilled in the art as a separate embodiment of the methods and compositions provided herein.

Accordingly and in one embodiment provided herein is a method of increasing endothelial progenitor cell numbers EPC in a wound of a subject comprising mobilizing endothelial progenitor cells EPC and homing the endothelial progenitor cells EPC into the wound thereby increasing EPC numbers in a wound of a diabetic subject.

In one embodiment the term progenitor cell or endothelial progenitor cells or EPC refers to any somatic cell which has the capacity to generate fully differentiated functional progeny by differentiation and proliferation. In another embodiment progenitor cells include progenitors from any tissue or organ system including but not limited to blood nerve muscle skin gut bone kidney liver pancreas thymus and the like. Progenitor cells are distinguished from differentiated cells which are defined in another embodiment as those cells which may or may not have the capacity to proliferate i.e. self replicate but which are unable to undergo further differentiation to a different cell type under normal physiological conditions. In one embodiment progenitor cells are further distinguished from abnormal cells such as cancer cells especially leukemia cells which proliferate self replicate but which generally do not further differentiate despite appearing to be immature or undifferentiated.

Progenitor cells include in another embodiment all the cells in a lineage of differentiation and proliferation prior to the most differentiated or the fully mature cell. Thus in one embodiment progenitors include the endothelial progenitor in the mature individual which is capable of differentiation to only one type of cell but which is itself not fully mature or fully differentiated. Production of mature functional endothelial cells results from proliferation and differentiation of unipotential progenitors which in another embodiment are those progenitors which have the capacity to make only that type of cell. In one embodiment EPC are derived from bone marrow BM .

In one embodiment an uncommitted progenitor cell such as embryonic stem cell is described as being totipotent i.e. both necessary and sufficient for generating all types of mature cells. Progenitor cells which retain a capacity to generate all pancreatic cell lineages but which can not self renew are termed pluripotent. In another embodiment cells which can produce some but not all endothelial lineages and can not self renew are termed multipotent . In one embodiment the methods provided herein further comprise administrating to the subject EPCs derived from ES cells. In another embodiment SDF 1 . expression is increased in ES cells using the compositions described herein which in one embodiment comprise an agent capable of up regulating the expression of a nucleic acid encoding SDF 1 .

In one embodiment phosphorylation of eNOS in bone marrow BM is impaired in diabetic subjects and SDF 1 expression by stromal cells in the granulation tissue of cutaneous wounds is impaired as well. These two impairments directly impact in another embodiment mobilization of EPC from BM into circulation and EPC homing to wounds. In another embodiment these pathologies can be therapeutically reversed using the methods provided herein to enhance EPCs available in peripheral wound tissue and improve wound healing. In one embodiment HBO is used to induce tissue level hyperoxia thereby activating multiple BM NOS isoforms leading in one embodiment to increased NO levels in the BM and hence enhanced mobilization of EPCs into circulation thus partially reversing the defect in eNOS activation and EPC release caused by diabetes.

In one embodiment the term homing refers to the signals that attract and stimulate the cells involved in healing to migrate to sites of injury and aid in repair. EPC recruitment to the wound site depends in another embodiment on ischemia induced upregulation of stromal cell derived factor 1 SDF 1 . In one embodiment the decreased expression of SDF 1 by epithelial cells and myofibroblasts is responsible for the lack of EPC homing to the periphery of diabetic wounds.

Hyperbaric oxygen therapy HBO refers in one embodiment to an adjunctive therapy used to stimulate wound healing in situations where the microvasculature has become attenuated. In another embodiment patients receive 20 or more treatments breathing 100 Oin a pressurized chamber at between about 2.0 to about 3.2 atmospheres absolute ATA once or twice daily. In another embodiment atmospheric pressure range from about 2 absolute atmospheres of pressure to about 3 absolute atmospheres of pressure. In one embodiment atmospheric pressure range from about 2 absolute atmospheres of pressure to about 2.4 absolute atmospheres of pressure. Treatment time ranges in one embodiment from about 10 minutes to about 240 minutes or in another embodiment the treatment time is about 10 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 15 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 30 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 60 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 90 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 120 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 150 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 180 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 210 minutes. In another embodiment the treatment time is 240 minutes. The patient can be treated once or multiple times such as twice in one embodiment or 5 10 15 20 25 or 30 times in other embodiments of the methods provided herein in the hyperbaric chamber. Treatment can be administered daily in one embodiment or every other day every third day or weekly in other embodiments. In one embodiment multiple treatments are administered on the same day.

In one embodiment Stromal cell derived factor 1 SDF 1 used in the methods and compositions provided herein is a CXC chemokine with chemoattractant activity for lymphocytes monocytes and their progenitor cells. In another embodiment SDF 1 is an endogenous ligand for the CXC chemokine receptor 4 CXCR4 binding with the CXCR4 in the form of monomer and the N terminal eight residues form an important receptor binding patch. In one embodiment SDF 1 augments production of bone marrow B cell progenitors in the presence of IL 7.

In one embodiment altering the cytokine milieu of the wound granulation tissue in favor of EPC homing and wound healing leads to broad paracrine effects from factors released by the wound that at a systemic level further enhance BM EPC release. In another embodiment these local factors work in synergism with hyperoxia to greatly increase the systemic mobilization of EPCs. In one embodiment super physiological levels of SDF 1 are required for restoring EPC mobilization in diabetic wounds at a much stronger local SDF 1 staining in diabetic SDF 1 injected than in nondiabetic wounds non SDF 1 injected and transiently increase systemic peripheral blood SDF 1 levels 2 h after local injection . In one embodiment the methods provided herein are carried out between 0 and 3 days post wound formation. In another embodiment the earlier the co administration of the homing chemokine and the induction of EPC release into the wound the faster is the healing of the wound which in another embodiment refers to its closing.

In one embodiment the methods and compositions provided herein for increasing endothelial progenitor cell numbers EPC in a wound of a subject comprise mobilizing endothelial progenitor cells whereby mobilizing the endothelial progenitor cells comprises exposing the wound to hyperbaric oxygen enriched atmosphere as described herein in another embodiment thereby increasing endothelial progenitor cells EPC release thereby increasing EPC numbers in a wound of a diabetic subject. In another embodiment the methods and compositions provided herein for increasing endothelial progenitor cell numbers EPC in a wound of a subject comprises homing endothelial progenitor cells into the wound whereby homing the endothelial progenitor cells into the wound comprises in one embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine such as SDF 1 in another embodiment thereby attracting the endothelial progenitor cells EPC to the wound.

In one embodiment the term Chemokines or chemokine refers to a superfamily of forty or more small approximately about 4 to about 14 kDa inducible and secreted pro inflammatory cytokines that act primarily as chemoattractants and activators of specific leukocyte cell subtypes. In another embodiment chemokines target the entire spectrum of leukocyte subtypes individually each targets only part of the spectrum. In one embodiment chemokines which are basic heparin binding proteins have four cysteines shared among almost all family members. There are four major groups of to chemokines three of which include the four conserved cysteines. The groups are defined in one embodiment by the arrangement of the first two cysteines. If the first two cysteines are separated by a single amino acid they are members of the CXC family also called a if the cysteines are adjacent they are classified in the CC family also called B . If they are separated by three amino acids CX.sub.3C they are members of the third group. The fourth group of chemokines contains two is cysteines corresponding to the first and third cysteines in the other groups. Structural analysis demonstrates that most chemokines function as monomers and that the two regions necessary for receptor binding reside within the first 35 amino acids of the flexible N terminus. In one embodiment any chemokine capable of attracting EPC into the wound is encompassed within the scope of the invention and is considered an embodiment of the invention. In one embodiment homing chemokine is SDF 1 . In another embodiment Chemokines in association with adhesion molecules recruit subsets of leukocytes to specific sites of inflammation and tissue injury such as chronic wounds and ulcerations in certain embodiments. In one embodiment chemokines and chemokine receptor expression are up regulated in disease with chemokines acting in an autocrine or paracrine manner. In one embodiment in subjects exhibiting chronic wound pathologies no up regulation of chemokines or in another embodiment chemokine receptors occurs exacerbating the underlying wound aetiology.

In one embodiment the methods and compositions provided herein used to accelerate wound healing in a subject in one embodiment or increase the level of EPC in a wound in another embodiment further comprise the step of up regulating the expression of SDF 1 in the subject. In another embodiment up regulating comprises contacting the subject with a viral vector carrying a nucleic acid sequence capable of up regulating the expression of SDF 1 .

A variety of well known vectors can be used to deliver a nucleic acid sequence capable of up regulating the expression of SDF 1 to cells in a lesion like a diabetic wound in another embodiment including but not limited to adenoviral vectors and adeno associated vectors. In another embodiment naked DNA liposome delivery methods or other novel vectors developed to deliver a nucleic acid sequence capable of up regulating the expression of SDF 1 to cells can also be beneficial. Adenovirus adeno associated virus herpes virus vacciniavirus retroviruses or other viral vectors with the appropriate tropism for cells likely to require enhanced expression of SDF 1 e.g. keratinocytes and endothelial cells are used in another embodiment as a transfer delivery system for a nucleic acid sequence capable of up regulating the expression of SDF 1a. Viral vectors which do not require that the target cell be actively dividing such as adenoviral and adeno associated vectors are used in one embodiment when the cells are accumulating but not proliferative. In one embodiment the vector used to deliver the nucleic acid is a cDNA carrying a nucleic acid encoding the protein to represented by SEQ ID NO. 1. In another embodiment SDF 1 is represented by the amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO. 1.

In one embodiment the nucleic acid sequence capable of up regulating the expression of SDF 1a used in the methods and compositions provided herein comprises a control region. In another embodiment control region refers to a nucleic acid sequence capable of required for assisting or initiating or otherwise regulating the transcription of a gene which in one embodiment encodes the amino acid sequence represented by SEQ ID NO. 1 and include but is not limited to promoter enhancer and other regulatory elements e.g. those regulating pausing or anti termination . In one embodimenty a positive transcription element increases the transcription of a gene encoding SDF 1 . A control region includes in another embodiment a nucleic acid sequence that may or may not be sufficient by itself to initiate terminate or otherwise regulate the transcription yet is able to do so in combination or coordination with other nucleic acid sequences. In one embodiment a control region can be in nontranscribed regions of a gene introns or exons. A control region can be in the 5 upstream region or the 3 downstream region to the amino acid coding sequence. A control sequence can be a single regulatory element from a gene. A control region can also have several regulatory elements from a gene linked together. These several regulatory elements can be linked in a way that is substantially the same as in nature or in an artificial way. In one embodiment the term nucleic acid refers to a single stranded or double stranded DNA or RNA including those containing modified nucleotides known to one skilled in the art. The complementary strand of an identified sequence is contemplated in another embodiment as well. In one embodiment the viral vectors used in the methods and compositions provided herein comprise a control region affecting up regulating the expression of SDF 1 .

In one embodiment Nitric oxide NO is a ubiquitous signaling messenger molecule involved in diverse pathophysiologic processes such as neurotransmission inflammatory and immune responses and vascular homeostasis. NO is not stored once produced and diffuses freely to its site of action where in one embodiment it binds covalently to its effectors. In one embodiment hyperoxia activates NOS in the BM thereby inducing EPC mobilization into circulation by increasing BM NO production. In another embodiment induction of hyperoxic conditions causes other NOS isoenzymes to compensate leading to NO increases in the BM that are substantial.

NO is synthesized in one embodiment by the action of a group of enzymes called NOSs which convert the amino acid L arginine into NO and another amino acid L citrulline. NOSs contain four cofactors FAD FMN tetrahydrobiopterin and haem the haem center has spectral properties to resembling those of cytochrome P. There are three types of NOSs. Two are constitutive named cNOS and one that is inducible by cytokines and endotoxins named iNOS . There are two subtypes of cNOS one in the vascular endothelium named eNOS and the other is present in the central and peripheral nervous systems named nNOS. nNOS and eNOS are Ca calmodulin dependent enzymes. In one embodiment hyperglycemia inhibits eNOS phosphorylation in bovine arterial ECs by posttranslational modification at the Akt site. In one embodiment insulin resistance impairs eNOS activity by increasing endothelial fatty acid oxidation serving in another embodiment as a potential mechanism whereby diabetes mellitus results in accelerated atherogenesis and increased cardiovascular disease risk.

In one embodiment eNOS is essential in the BM microenvironment and in another embodiment an increases in marrow NO levels results in the mobilization of EPCs from BM niches to circulation ultimately allowing for their participation in tissue level vasculogenesis and wound healing according to the methods provided herein. In another embodiment HBOstimulates EPC mobilization by a NO dependent mechanism. In another embodiment the sequence of events is as follows HBO NOS NO nitrosylation of MMP9 cleavage of membrane bound SCF SCF prompts EPC proliferation and mobilization EPC released into peripheral circulation. A person skilled in the art would readily recognize that any compound now known or later discovered or developed which would perform the functions in the cascade described hereinabove and result in EPC released into peripheral circulation is encompassed by the present invention.

In one embodiment the methods of increasing the level of EPC in a wound or the compositions therefore are useful wherein the wound is a livedoid vasculopathy. In another embodiment the wound is a diabetic ulcer. In another embodiment the wound is a peripheral arterial disease ulcer. In another embodiment the wound is a venous stasis ulcer. In another embodiment the wound is a chronic non healing ulcer. In another embodiment the wound is a pressure ulcer or in another embodiment the wound is a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the term livedoid vasculopathy refers to a disorder characterised by painful ulceration in association with livedo reticularis and atrophie blanche. In another embodiment Livedoid vasculopathy LV is an occlusive thrombotic disease that affects primarily the small blood vessels of the lower extremities is associated in another embodiment with recurrent painful ulcerations. The pathogenesis of LV is attributed in one embodiment to a hypercoagulable state. Factor V Leiden mutation heterozygous protein C deficiency homozygous hyperhomocysteinemia and other inherited thrombophilias have been associated in other embodiments with LV. In one embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating the healing of ulcerations due to livedoid vasculopathy comprising mobilizing endothelial progenitor cells using HBO therapy of no less than 5 daily treatments and using direct injection into the ulceration simultaneously homing the endothelial progenitor cells into the ulcerations due to livedoid vasculopathy thereby increasing EPC numbers in an ulcerations due to livedoid vasculopathy.

In another embodiment the methods and compositions provided herein are useful in treating dermal ulcerations. Dermal ulcers refer in one embodiment to lesions on the skin caused by superficial loss of tissue that fail to heal normally due to defects in healing processes vascular insufficiency or pressure. Dermal skin ulcers which can be treated by the methods and compositions provided herein are decubitus ulcers diabetic ulcers venous stasis ulcers and arterial ulcers. Decubitus wounds refer to chronic ulcers that result from pressure applied to areas of the skin for extended periods of time. In another embodiment wounds of this type are called bedsores or pressure sores. Venous stasis ulcers result from the stagnation of blood or other fluids from defective veins. Arterial ulcers refer to necrotic skin in the area around arteries having poor blood flow. In one embodiment recruitment of EPC into the lesions will accelerate the healing of these wounds.

In one embodiment provided herein is a method of increasing endothelial progenitor cell numbers EPC in a wound of a subject comprising mobilizing endothelial progenitor cells and homing the endothelial progenitor cells into the wound thereby increasing EPC numbers in a wound of the subject whereby mobilizing the endothelial progenitor cells comprises exposing the wound to hyperbaric oxygen enriched atmosphere thereby increasing endothelial progenitor cells EPC release and whereby homing the endothelial progenitor cells into the wound comprises contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine thereby attracting the endothelial progenitor cells EPC to the wound. In one embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via topical irrigation. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via parenteral administration. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via oral administration. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via intramuscular administration. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via subcutaneous administration. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an to endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via a foam. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via a patch administration. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via a local wound injection. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial is progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via an ointment. In another embodiment contacting the wound with a composition comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine is via a cream or their combination in other embodiments.

In another embodiment the methods and compositions provided herein are useful in treating subjects who are diabetic. In another embodiment in the setting of diabetes hyperoxia increases BM NO level and stimulates EPC release from the BM into circulation without significantly impacting the inflammatory cell numbers in circulation. In another embodiment a synergistic increase in EPC mobilization homing and wound healing is achieved when used in conjunction with HBO. In another embodiment HBO mediated EPC release by NOS activation SDF 1 mediated EPC homing and their combination as well as timing the initiation of such a therapy to the initial stages of the diabetic wound carry important clinical weight in diabetic wound healing.

In one embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising increasing release of endothelial progenitor cells from a bone marrow of said subject and attracting the endothelial progenitor cells into the wound thereby accelerating a wound healing in the subject. In another embodiment the subject is diabetic.

In one embodiment the compositions provided herein are used in the methods provided herein. Accordingly and in one embodiment provided herein is a composition for accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine its isomer its metabolite or a salt thereof wherein said endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine attract endothelial progenitor cells into the wound thereby accelerating wound healing. In one embodiment the endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine used in the compositions provided herein is SDF 1 .

In another embodiment the composition for accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine its isomer its metabolite or a salt thereof further comprise an agent capable of upregulating expression of SDF 1 . In another embodiment the agent capable of upregulating expression of SDF 1 is a viral vector carrying a nucleic acid sequence capable of upregulating the expression of SDF 1 . The embodiments of compositions vectors and the like described hereinabove are used in one embodiment in the compositions described herein.

In one embodiment the composition for accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine its isomer its metabolite or a salt thereof further comprise a carrier an excipient a lubricant a flow aid a processing aid or a diluent wherein said carrier excipient lubricant flow aid processing aid or diluent is a gum a starch a sugar a cellulosic material an acrylate calcium carbonate magnesium oxide talc lactose monohydrate magnesium stearate colloidal silicone dioxide or mixtures thereof.

In one embodiment the composition further comprises a carrier excipient lubricant flow aid processing aid or diluent wherein said carrier excipient lubricant flow aid processing aid or diluent is a gum starch a sugar a cellulosic material an acrylate calcium carbonate magnesium oxide talc lactose monohydrate magnesium stearate colloidal silicone dioxide or mixtures thereof.

In another embodiment the composition further comprises a binder a disintegrant a buffer a protease inhibitor a surfactant a solubilizing agent a plasticizer an emulsifier a stabilizing agent a viscosity increasing agent a sweetner a film forming agent or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the composition for accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine its isomer its metabolite or a salt thereof that are described herein and may be present in the form of suspension or dispersion form in solvents or fats in the form of a nonionic vesicle dispersion or else in the form of an emulsion preferably an oil in water emulsion such as a cream or milk or in the form of an ointment gel cream gel sun oil solid stick powder aerosol foam or spray.

In one embodiment the composition is a particulate composition coated with a polymer e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines . Other embodiments of the compositions of the invention incorporate particulate forms protective coatings protease inhibitors or permeation enhancers for various routes of administration including parenteral pulmonary nasal and oral. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is administered parenterally paracancerally transmucosally transdermally intramuscularly intravenously intradermally subcutaneously intraperitonealy to intraventricularly or intracranially.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods provided herein permit direct application to the site where it is needed. In the practice of the methods provided herein it is contemplated that virtually any of the compositions provided herein can be employed.

In one embodiment the compositions of this invention may be in the form of a pellet a tablet a capsule a solution a suspension a dispersion an emulsion an elixir a gel an ointment a cream or a suppository.

In another embodiment the composition is in a form suitable for oral intravenous intraarterial intramuscular subcutaneous parenteral transmucosal transdermal or topical administration. In one embodiment the composition is a controlled release composition. In another embodiment the composition is an immediate release composition. In one embodiment the composition is a liquid dosage form. In another embodiment the composition is a solid dosage form.

In another embodiment the compositions provided herein are suitable for oral intraoral rectal parenteral topical epicutaneous transdermal subcutaneous intramuscular intranasal sublingual buccal intradural intraocular intrarespiratory nasal inhalation or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the step of administering the compositions provided herein in the methods provided herein is carried out as oral administration or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is intraoral or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is rectal or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is parenteral or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is topical or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is epicutaneous or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is transdermal or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is subcutaneous or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is intramuscular or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is intranasal or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is sublingual or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is buccal or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is intradural or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is intraocular or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is intrarespiratory or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is nasal inhalation or in another embodiment the administration of the compositions provided herein is a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the method of the invention comprises administering a the compositions provided herein via an intradermal patch. The method in some embodiments also comprises administering the patch adjacent to the area of skin to be treated. As used herein a patch comprises at least the compositions provided herein and a covering layer such that the patch can be placed over the area of skin to be treated. In another embodiment the patch is designed to maximize delivery of the compositions provided herein through the stratum corneum and into the epidermis or dermis reduce lag time promote uniform absorption and reduce mechanical rub off.

In some embodiments the method comprises administering a topical formulation of the compositions provided herein to an affected site of skin. In some embodiments topical administration according to the present invention comprises aerosol cream foam gel liquid ointment paste powder shampoo spray patch disk or dressing.

The compounds utilized in the methods and compositions of the present invention may be present in the form of free bases in one embodiment or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof in another embodiment. In one embodiment the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts embraces salts commonly used to form alkali metal salts and to form addition salts of free acids or free bases. The nature of the salt is not critical provided that it is pharmaceutically acceptable. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of compounds of Formula I are prepared in another embodiment from an inorganic acid or from an organic acid. Examples of such inorganic acids are hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric carbonic sulfuric and phosphoric acid. Appropriate organic acids may be selected from aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids example of which are formic acetic propionic succinic glycolic gluconic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic glucuronic maleic fumaric pyruvic aspartic glutamic benzoic anthranilic mesylic 4 hydroxybenzoic phenylacetic mandelic embonic pamoic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic benzenesulfonic pantothenic 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic toluenesulfonic sulfanilic cyclohexylaminosulfonic stearic algenic b hydroxybutyric salicylic galactaric and galacturonic acid. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include metallic salts made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc or organic salts made from N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. All of these salts may be prepared by conventional means from the corresponding compound by reacting in another embodiment the appropriate acid or base with the compound.

In one embodiment the term pharmaceutically acceptable carriers includes but is not limited to may refer to 0.01 0.1M and preferably 0.05M phosphate buffer or in another embodiment 0.8 saline. Additionally such pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be in another embodiment aqueous or non aqueous solutions suspensions and emulsions. Examples of non aqueous solvents are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media. In one embodiment the level of phosphate buffer used as a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is between about 0.01 to about 0.1M or between about 0.01 to about 0.09M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.08M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.07M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.06M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.05M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.04M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.03M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.02M in another embodiment or between about 0.01 to about 0.015 in another embodiment.

In one embodiment the compounds of this invention may include compounds modified by the covalent attachment of water soluble polymers such as polyethylene glycol copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol carboxymethyl cellulose dextran polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone or polyproline are known to exhibit substantially longer half lives in blood following intravenous injection than do the corresponding unmodified compounds Abuchowski et al. 1981 Newmark et al. 1982 and Katre et al. 1987 . Such modifications may also increase the compound s solubility in aqueous solution eliminate aggregation enhance the physical and chemical stability of the compound and greatly reduce the immunogenicity and reactivity of the compound. As a result the desired in vivo biological activity may be achieved by the administration of such polymer compound abducts less frequently or in lower doses than with the unmodified compound.

The pharmaceutical preparations comprising the compositions used in one embodiment in the methods provided herein can be prepared by known dissolving mixing granulating or tablet forming to processes. For oral administration the active ingredients or their physiologically tolerated derivatives in another embodiment such as salts esters N oxides and the like are mixed with additives customary for this purpose such as vehicles stabilizers or inert diluents and converted by customary methods into suitable forms for administration such as tablets coated tablets hard or soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions. Examples of suitable inert vehicles are conventional tablet bases such as lactose sucrose or cornstarch in combination with binders such as acacia cornstarch gelatin with disintegrating agents such as cornstarch potato starch alginic acid or with a lubricant such as stearic acid or magnesium stearate.

Examples of suitable oily vehicles or solvents are vegetable or animal oils such as sunflower oil or fish liver oil. Preparations can be effected both as dry and as wet granules. For parenteral administration subcutaneous intravenous intraarterial or intramuscular injection the active ingredients or their physiologically tolerated derivatives such as salts esters N oxides and the like are converted into a solution suspension or emulsion if desired with the substances customary and suitable for this purpose for example solubilizers or other auxiliaries. Examples are sterile liquids such as water and oils with or without the addition of a surfactant and other pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants. Illustrative oils are those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil or mineral oil. In general water saline aqueous dextrose and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycols or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions.

In addition the composition described in the embodiments provided herein can contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering agents which enhance the effectiveness of the active ingredient.

An active component can be formulated into the composition as neutralized pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts formed with the free amino groups of the polypeptide or antibody molecule which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric mandelic and the like. Salts formed from the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine and the like.

In one embodiment the compositions described herein which are used in another embodiment in the methods provided herein further comprise a carrier an excipient a lubricant a flow aid a processing aid or a diluent.

The active agent is administered in another embodiment in a therapeutically effective amount. The actual amount administered and the rate and time course of administration will depend in one embodiment on the nature and severity of the condition being treated. Prescription of treatment e.g. decisions on dosage timing etc. is within the responsibility of general practitioners or specialists and typically takes account of the disorder to be treated the condition of the individual patient the site of delivery the method of administration and other factors known to practitioners. Examples of techniques and protocols can be found in

Alternatively targeting therapies may be used in another embodiment to deliver the active agent more specifically to certain types of cell by the use of targeting systems such as antibodies or cell specific ligands. Targeting may be desirable in one embodiment for a variety of reasons e.g. if the agent is unacceptably toxic or if it would otherwise require too high a dosage or if it would not otherwise be able to enter the target cells.

The compositions of the present invention are formulated in one embodiment for oral delivery wherein the active compounds may be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tables troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. The tablets troches pills capsules and the like may also contain the following a binder as gum tragacanth acacia cornstarch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose lactose or saccharin may be added or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring. When the dosage unit form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with shellac sugar or both. Syrup of elixir may contain the active compound sucrose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. In addition the active compounds may be incorporated into sustained release pulsed release controlled release or postponed release preparations and formulations.

Controlled or sustained release compositions include formulation in lipophilic depots e.g. fatty acids waxes oils . Also comprehended by the invention are particulate compositions coated with polymers e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines and the compound coupled to antibodies directed against tissue specific receptors ligands or antigens or coupled to ligands of tissue specific receptors.

In one embodiment the composition can be delivered in a controlled release system. For example the agent may be administered using intravenous infusion an implantable osmotic pump a transdermal patch liposomes or other modes of administration. In one embodiment a pump may be used see Langer supra Sefton CRC Crit. Ref. Biomed. Eng. 14 201 1987 Buchwald et al. Surgery 88 507 1980 Saudek et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 321 574 1989 . In another embodiment polymeric materials can be used. In another embodiment a controlled release system can be placed in proximity to the therapeutic target i.e. the brain thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in Medical Applications of Controlled Release supra vol. 2 pp. 115 138 1984 . Other controlled release systems are discussed in the review by Langer Science 249 1527 1533 1990 .

Such compositions are in one embodiment liquids or lyophilized or otherwise dried formulations and include diluents of various buffer content e.g. Tris HCl. acetate phosphate pH and ionic strength additives such as albumin or gelatin to prevent absorption to surfaces detergents e.g. Tween 20 Tween 80 Pluronic F68 bile acid salts solubilizing agents e.g. glycerol polyethylene glycerol anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite preservatives e.g. Thimerosal benzyl alcohol parabens bulking substances or tonicity modifiers e.g. lactose mannitol covalent attachment of polymers such as polyethylene glycol to the protein complexation with metal ions or incorporation of the material into or onto particulate preparations of polymeric compounds such as polylactic acid polyglycolic acid hydrogels etc. or onto liposomes microemulsions micelles unilamellar or multilamellar vesicles erythrocyte ghosts or spheroplasts. Such compositions will influence the physical state solubility stability rate of in vivo release and rate of in vivo clearance. Controlled or sustained release compositions include formulation in lipophilic depots e.g. fatty acids waxes oils . Also comprehended by the invention are particulate compositions coated with polymers e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines . Other embodiments of the compositions of the invention incorporate particulate forms protective coatings protease inhibitors or permeation enhancers for various routes of administration including parenteral pulmonary nasal and oral.

In another embodiment the compositions of this invention comprise one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier materials.

In one embodiment the carriers for use within such compositions are biocompatible and in another embodiment biodegradable. In other embodiments the formulation may provide a relatively constant level of release of one active component. In other embodiments however a more rapid rate of release immediately upon administration may be desired. In other embodiments release of active compounds may be event triggered. The events triggering the release of the active compounds may be the same in one embodiment or different in another embodiment. Events triggering the release of the active components may be exposure to moisture in one embodiment lower pH in another embodiment or temperature threshold in another embodiment. The formulation of such compositions is well within the level of ordinary skill in the art using known techniques. Illustrative carriers useful in this regard include microparticles of poly lactide co glycolide polyacrylate latex starch cellulose dextran and the like. Other illustrative postponed release carriers include supramolecular biovectors which comprise a non liquid hydrophilic core e.g. a cross linked polysaccharide or oligosaccharide and optionally an external layer comprising an amphiphilic compound such as phospholipids. The amount of active compound contained in one embodiment within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of administration the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated suppressed or inhibited.

In another embodiment the composition for accelerating a wound healing in a subject comprising an endothelial progenitor cells EPC homing chemokine its isomer its metabolite or a salt thereof further comprise one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject. In one embodiment the one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject is mesenchymal stem cells MSC . In another embodiment the one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject is phenyloin. In another embodiment the one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject is autologous keratinocytes in fibrin sealant Bioseed S . In another embodiment the one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject is dalteparin or in another embodiment the one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject is a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the wound for which healing is sought to be accelerated require the grafting of skin tissue on the lesion. In another embodiment mesenchymal stem cells are used to condition a recipient s immune system to donor or foreign tissue by administering to the recipient prior to or at the same time as transplantation of the donor tissue mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective to reduce or eliminate an immune response against the transplant by for example the recipient s T cells. In another embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating a burn wound healing in a subject requiring skin graft comprising increasing release of endothelial progenitor cells from a bone marrow of said subject and attracting the endothelial progenitor cells into the burn wound and further comprising one or more additional agent for treating the burn wound in the subject wherein the one or more additional agent for treating a wound in the subject is mesenchymal stem cells MSC conditioning the subject s immune system to donor or foreign skin graft thereby accelerating a wound healing in the subject. In another embodiment mobilizing and attracting is done according to the description provided herein.

In one embodiment phenyloin is involved in the healing process at several levels including stimulating fibroblast proliferation in one embodiment or enhancing the formation of granulation tissue decreasing collagenase activity by reducing its production or secretion or both promoting deposition of collagen and other connective tissue components decreasing bacterial contamination and decreasing wound exudate or their combination in other embodiments. In another embodiment biopsies of phenyloin treated open wounds show neovascularization collagenization and decreased polymorphonuclear and eosinophil cell infiltration. In one embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating healing of a decubitus ulcer in a subject comprising increasing release of endothelial progenitor cells from a bone marrow of said subject and attracting the endothelial progenitor cells into the decubitus ulcer and further comprising one or more additional agent for treating decubitus ulcers in the subject wherein the one or more additional agent for treating decubitus ulcers in the subject is phenyloin cream topically onto the ulcerations promoting deposition of collagen and other connective tissue components thereby accelerating decubitus ulcers healing in the subject.

In one embodiment autologous keratinocytes in fibrin sealant are used following treatment of wounds as described herein. In one embodiment the term autologous as applied to components of compositions administered to recipients refers to body components e.g. cells or biological molecules such as proteins nucleic acids carbohydrates or lipids removed from a donor and administered to a recipient wherein the donor and recipient are the same individual. Accordingly and in another embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating healing of pressure wound comprising increasing release of endothelial progenitor cells from a bone marrow of said subject and attracting the endothelial progenitor cells into the pressure wound and further comprising one or more additional agent for treating pressure wound in the subject wherein the one or more additional agent for treating pressure wound in the subject is an aerosolized autologous keratinocytes suspended in fibrin sealant sprayed on wound after treatment according to the methods provided herein thereby providing keratinocytes to the wound site and accelerating its healing.

Chronic foot ulcers are a common severe and expensive complication threatening life and limb in patients with diabetes. In one embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating healing of foot ulcers secondary to diabetes or ischemia in a subject comprising increasing release of endothelial progenitor cells from a bone marrow of said subject and attracting the endothelial progenitor cells into the foot ulcers secondary to diabetes or ischemia and further comprising one or more additional agent for treating the foot ulcers secondary to diabetes or ischemia in the subject wherein the one or more additional agent for treating foot ulcers secondary to diabetes or ischemia in the subject is a subcutaneously injected dalteparin into the wound improving local capillary circulation thereby accelerating healing of foot ulcers secondary to diabetes or ischemia in the subject.

In one embodiment provided herein is a method of accelerating wound healing in a subject comprising the step of increasing eNOS expression or function thereby increasing endothelial progenitor cells EPC release from bone marrow. In another embodiment increasing eNOS expression or function comprises perfusion of autologous BM with NO ex vivo and reincorporating the perfused BM cells into the subject. In another embodiment viral vectors as described hereinabove are used to increase the expression of nucleic acids encoding for eNOS. In another embodiment the step of increasing eNOS expression or function comprises contacting the subject with a composition that upregulates eNOS. In another embodiment the step of increasing eNOS expression or function comprises contacting the subject with a composition that activates eNOS. In another embodiment the step of increasing eNOS expression or function comprises contacting the subject with a composition that induces phosphorylation of eNOS or in another embodiment the step of increasing eNOS expression or function is a combination thereof thereby increasing endothelial progenitor cells EPC release from bone marrow. In one embodiment the invention encompasses the use of a compound that upregulates or activates SDF 1 for accelerating wound healing in a subject. In another embodiment the invention encompasses the use of a compound that upregulates or activates SDF 1 for accelerating wound healing in a diabetic subject.

Therapeutic interventions such as those described in the methods provided herein comprising the correction of both EPC activation via HBO in one embodiment and EPC homing via administration of SDF 1 in another embodiment significantly accelerate diabetic wound healing by correcting the EPC deficit inherent to diabetic wounds.

The term about as used herein means in quantitative terms plus or minus 5 or in another embodiment plus or minus 10 or in another embodiment plus or minus 15 or in another embodiment plus or minus 20 .

The term subject refers in one embodiment to a mammal including a human in need of therapy for or susceptible to a condition or its sequalae. The subject may include dogs cats pigs cows sheep goats horses rats and mice and humans. The term subject does not exclude an individual that is normal in all respects.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention.

All procedures were done with approval from the University of Pennsylvania Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee IACUC . 6 12 wk old FVB wild type mice FVB NJ GFP FVB Tg and Tie2 GFP Tg TIE2GFP 87 Sato J were purchased from The Jackson Laboratory. For all surgical procedures mice were anesthetized with an i.p. injection of 80 mg kg of ketamine Phoenix Scientific Inc. and 20 mg kg xylazine Vedco Inc. . For BM transplantation experiments 1 10BM cells from GFP mice were transplanted to irradiated 900 Rad FVB wild type mouse via tail vein. Reconstitution of BM system in chimeras was achieved in 3 wk and confirmed by FACScan 50 BM cells are GFP data not shown . For local wound SDF 1 injection SDF 1 protein R D Systems was reconstituted in PBS and injected into the wound base 25 g Kg .

Tie2 GFP wild type or chimeric FVB mice at 6 12 wk of age were treated with STZ Sigma Aldrich to induce diabetes. Mice were rendered diabetic by i.p. administration of 60 mg kg STZ in 50 mM sodium citrate pH 4.5 daily for 5 d. Control mice were treated with daily injections of citrate buffer. Serum glucose was measured from the mouse tail vein using a glucometer. Once serum glucose reached 250 mg dL mice were followed with daily measurements for 1 wk prior to use in experiments. Serum glucose levels in STZ mice averaged 461 mg dL with a range of 372 520 mg dL while control mice serum glucose mean level was 120 mg dL with a range of 94 135 mg dL. Wounds were induced on the ventral surface of the mouse thigh using a 4 mm punch biopsy. Full thickness skin was removed exposing the underlying muscle.

For HBO treatment mice were placed in an animal hyperbaric chamber Reneau Corp. and subjected to 100 oxygen at 2.4 atmospheres absolute ATA for 90 min Davis Wound Healing Protocol . To measure continuous real time BM NO levels NO microelectrodes was inserted into the femoral marrow cavity as previously described. An osteotomy was created on the patellar surface of the murine femur using a 25 G beveled needle allowing the electrode to be lowered into the marrow space when the animal was placed in the hyperbaric chamber. In some mice pretreatment with L NAME 40 mg kg i.p. Sigma Aldrich was given 2 h prior to exposure to HBO.

Isolation of whole BM from FVB NJ mice n 12 group was obtained by flushing harvested femurs and tibias with PBS 2 FBS. Red blood cells were removed by Red Cell Lysis Buffer Sigma Aldrich . Isolated BM cells were then lysed and protein concentrations were determined by DC protein assay Bio Rad Laboratories . Equal amounts of protein were subjected to 4 12 SDS gel electrophoresis under reducing conditions. The transferred PVDF membranes were probed with primary Ab anti eNOS and anti phospho eNOS Ser BD Biosciences diluted 1 500 in 1 milk in TBST buffer and then incubated with HRP conjugated second Ab DakoCytomation Inc. . Proteins were visualized using enhanced chemiluminescence Amersham Bioscience .

Total RNA was isolated from wound tissues by Trizol Invitrogen in tissue grinders. cDNA was synthesized from 500 ng of total RNA using TaqMan Gold RT PCR Kit Applied Biosystems according to manufacturer s protocol. The cDNA samples were diluted 20 fold real time PCR reaction was carried out using SYBR green JumpStart Taq ReadyMix Sigma Aldrich with 100 M of primer. Amplifications were performed in an ABI PRISM 7000 Sequence Detection System Applied Biosystems . Thermal cycler conditions were 50 C. for 2 min and 95 C. for 10 min to activate inactivate different enzymes then 40 cycles of 15 sec at 95 C. denaturation followed by 1 min at 59 C. annealing and extension . The actin plasmid was used as standard DNA. All standards and samples were assayed in triplicate. The threshold cycle Ct values were used to plot a standard curve. All samples were normalized to the relative levels of actin setting as 1 and results expressed as fold increase in relative levels. Primers were designed using PrimerExpress Applied Biosystems software as follows SDF 1 5 CCAGAGCCAACGTCAAGCAT 3 SEQ ID NO. 1 and 5 TGTTGAGGATTTTCAGATGCTTGA 3 SEQ ID NO. 1 and actin 5 ACGGCCAGGTCATCACTATTG 3 SEQ ID NO. 2 and 5 CAA GAA GGA AGG CTG GAA AAG A 3 SEQ ID NO. 3 .

Mouse serum SDF 1 concentration was measured by Quantikine mouse SDF 1 ELISA kit R D Systems based on manufacturer s protocol.

Mobilization of EPCs into circulation was studied using flow cytometry as previously described. Cells isolated from mice were incubated with various Abs BD Biosciences . Isotype matched mouse immunoglobulins served as controls. One million viable cells were analyzed per sample using an LSR2 multicolor flow cytometer BD Biosciences . Data was analyzed using FlowJo software Treestar Inc. .

For immunostaining paraffin embedded serial sections 5 m were first underwent standard deparaffinizing and rehydration procedures and then probed with various Abs. To assess wound SDF 1 cells sections were double stained with HTC conjugated anti SDF 1 and PE conjugated different tissue specific Abs eBiosciences . To detect blood vessels in wound sections were stained with HTC conjugated anti VEGFR2Ab. For examination of wound EPC recruitment in BM transplantation experiment sections were double stained with FITC GFP and PE VEGFR2 BD Biosciences . Nuclei were counterstained with Hoescht dye. Masson s trichrome staining and H E staining were performed using standard method and all reagents were from Sigma Aldrich. Tissue sections were analyzed using fluorescence microscopy and ImageJ NIH software to quantitate fluorescent intensity. In trichrome stained slides blue stain collagen content was also quantitatively analyzed by ImageJ.

Initial wound surface area was recorded and wounds were then followed serially with daily digital photographs using an Olympus digital camera. Photographs contained an internal scale to allow for standard calibration of measurements. Wound area was quantified using ImageJ software. Wound area was expressed as the percentage of original wound size. Wounds were followed for 6 d and mice were sacrificed at the conclusion of the experiment.

All data is expressed as mean SEM. Statistical analysis carried out using paired Student s t test and analysis of variance ANOVA procedures. Values considered statistically significant were P

In initial human studies on the mobilization of EPC by HBO blood was obtained from 26 patients before and after their first 10and 20hyperbaric treatment for osteoradionecrosis prophylaxis the standard pre operative course of therapy is 20 treatments . Blood leukocytes were harvested and analyzed for the presence of EPC based on flow cytometry and colony forming cells CFCs . Control human subjects included patients breathing 100 Obut not pressurized and pressurized attendants not breathing 100 Owhere tissue level hyperoxia is not achieved. In HBO treated patients but not controls the CD34 population in blood and the number of colony forming cells CFCs in peripheral blood were significantly increased in response to each exposure to HBO . Of note elevations in CFCs prior to the 10and 20treatments were not found although the numbers of CD34 cells were elevated . This suggested that only cells recently mobilized by HBOexhibit an increased propensity to grow and form colonies a subject that is currently being actively investigated in our laboratory.

To specifically address whether the increased CFCs were coming from the fraction of cells expressing CD34 the circulating monocyte population of 9 patients before and after their 20HBOtreatment were isolated and fractionated using paramagnetic polystyrene beads coated with antibody to CD34. In the CD34fraction prior to treatment there were 13 0.3 colonies and after HBO23 3 colonies grew p

In the initial studies searching for the mechanisms for EPC mobilization with HBOEPC assessed as cells that co expressed CD34 and stem cell antigen 1 Sca 1 were also evaluated in peripheral blood of mice. It was subsequently demonstrated with a number of specific EPC markers in both diabetic and non diabetic mice models that HBOinduces EPC release via a Nitric Oxide mediated mechanism. In preliminary studies mice were exposed to HBOfor 90 minutes at up to 2.8 ATA and also to a pressure control 2.8 ATA pressure using a gas containing 7.5 O so that Opartial pressure was the same as ambient air 0.21 ATA O . In select studies mice were pre treated with intraperitoneal L nitroarginine methyl ester L NAME to inhibit nitric oxide synthase NOS 40 mg kg i.p. administered 2 hours prior to pressurization . In anesthetized mice blood was obtained by aortic puncture and bone marrow was harvested by clipping the ends off a tibia and flushing the marrow cavity with 1 ml PBS. Exposure to 2.8 ATA O but not 100 Oat ambient pressure or 2.8 ATA pressure at a total Opartial pressure of only 0.21 ATA O increased EPC mobilization immediately after treatment as well as 16 hrs post treatment and with repeated treatments .

There is precedence for rapid mobilization of stem cells from bone marrow but most emigration is believed to occur after a period of cell proliferation within the marrow niche. It was found that the number of EPC peaked at 16 hours after mice were exposed to 2.8 ATA 100 Oand if mice were exposed to 2.8 ATA 100 Ofor 90 minutes on two successive days the number increased even more . There was no additional increase in peripheral blood EPC if mice were exposed to more than two HBOtreatments. The leukocyte count in peripheral blood and bone marrow did not increase in response to HBO Table I but there was a significant elevation in CFCs in both blood and bone marrow indicating the activation of these cells to grow as colonies with the hyperoxia stimulus.

EPC mobilization did not occur in mice lacking genes for eNOS . If wild type mice were injected before HBOwith the non specific nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L NAME EPC mobilization also did not occur . Soluble kit ligand skit or stem cell factor SCF was significantly elevated in peripheral blood of HBO exposed mice and this elevation was also blocked by L NAME Table I . These early findings as well as other subsequent extensive data from our laboratory support the view that HBOmobilizes EPCs by increasing bone marrow NO synthesis.

In early studies it was hypothesized that HBOaugments stem cell mobilization because it stimulates NO synthesis in the bone marrow as NO is known to play a central role with stem cell release from bone marrow. Anesthetized mice had a small hole drilled into a femur where a NO specific microelectrode was placed. Mice were placed in a hyperbaric chamber where while breathing air baseline measurements were obtained. The chamber was then flushed with 100 Oand compressed to 2.4 ATA O. Results demonstrated a pronounced elevation of NO synthesis. If mice were pre treated with L NAME 40 mg kg ip no NO signal was detected.

In addition it was observed that HBOdaily treatments 2.4ATA 100 Ofor 90 min improved hindlimb perfusion by Laser Doppler Imaging LDF after femoral ligation excision FIG. and increased the bone marrow derived BMD EPC within the incisional wounds 3 d post wounding with 4 HBOtreatments . By day 8 after wounding ischemic excisional punch biopsy wounds treated daily with HBOhealed faster . These wound healing improvements were not observed in mice that received treatment with L NAME 40 mg kg i.p. prior to HBO indicating that the improvement in wound healing is mediated by NO. In addition bone marrow and blood obtained from mice treated daily by HBOshowed significant increases in the EPC progenitor marker VEGFR 2 mRNA by semi quantitative RT PCR . shows data collected from 30 FVB mice that were treated with HBO 100 Oat 2.4 ATA for 90 min 5 daily treatments . Each day animals were harvested and blood retro orbital bleeding and bone marrow flushing of tibias and femurs collected 3 mice for each time point had bone marrow collected and 5 mice for each time point had blood collected . VEGFR 2 kdr mRNA was semi quantitated by RT PCR. While VEGFR 2 is also present in mature endothelial cells the acute rise of the marker in bone marrow and blood strongly suggested an HBO mediated vasculogenic response. Altogether the data presented in the examples hereinabove Table I indicated that EPC mobilized by HBOare likely functional and that HBOmediates effects on endothelial progenitor cells via NO mechanisms.

BMD EPC contribute to wound healing since these progenitor stem cells are the key cellular effectors of post natal vasculogenesis. BMD EPC given to animals with surgically induced limb ischemia incorporate into foci of neovascularization in ischemic muscle skin and wounds. A critical role for BMD EPC in ischemic wound healing was identified. The contribution of bone marrow derived endothelial progenitor cells to wound healing was quantified with and without ischemia in chimeric mice formed using bone marrow from FVB Tie 2 LacZ transgenic mice FVB N TgN TIE2LacZ 182Sato The Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. . Tie 2 LacZ mice are well suited for specifically tracking bone marrow derived progenitor cells of the endothelial cell lineage because the endothelial specific Tie 2 promoter is linked to the LacZ reporter gene allowing cells to be identified by galactosidase gal expression. After creating the chimeric mice as depicted in a murine model of hind limb ischemia induced by femoral ligation excision was used as depicted in . Hindlimb ischemia was monitored using laser doppler flowmetry LDF that allows for quantifying cutaneous blood flow in the ischemic relative to the nonischemic hind limb. Hindlimb ischemia resulted in delayed wound healing A C . Acutely healing wounds in non ischemic hind limbs were then compared with delayed healing wounds in the contralateral ischemic hindlimb and correlated healing rates to BMD EPC recruitment into wounds. It was determined that BMD EPC play a key role in wound healing and are recruited into the granulation tissue of acutely healing non ischemic wounds in significantly greater numbers than to delayed healing ischemic wounds D G . These studies show that BMD EPC contribute to acute wound healing and the process is deficient or incomplete at the level of skin wounds in the presence of severe ischemia.

In diabetic patients and diabetic murine models the number and function of circulating BMD EPC are severely impaired and this defect is highly correlated with the long term cardiovascular and wound healing complications seen in Diabetes. Increasing evidence suggests that wound healing mechanisms in both the bone marrow and within the peripheral wound are compromised by diabetes as a result of BMD EPC impairments. While cytokines e.g. Granulocyte Colony stimulating Factor GM CSF and growth factors e.g. Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A VEGF A can induce the release of progenitor cells from the bone marrow the non specific effects on release of other white cells and platelets or the leaky capillary effect has made these factors unsuitable to treat diabetic patients with non healing chronic wounds.

In diabetic patients circulating EPCs are decreased in both number and function and so it was hypothesized that BM eNOS activation is impaired in diabetes. To examine this question BM was isolated from streptozocin induced STZ induced diabetic and nondiabetic mice and analyzed via Western blot for levels of total and phosphorylated eNOS protein. Although no changes in the amount of total eNOS protein were observed the levels of biologically active phosphorylated eNOS protein were decreased in diabetic mice as compared with nondiabetic controls . To investigate whether the decreased eNOS activity might reflect a change in cellular composition within BM of diabetic mice the constitution of EPCs stromal cells HSCs and lymphocytes was studied in the BM of STZ induced diabetic versus nondiabetic mice. The EPC and HSC populations remained constant while the mesenchymal stromal cell and lymphocyte populations demonstrated a slight decrease by approximately 27 and 26 respectively in diabetic compared with nondiabetic mice . Thus it is evident that diabetes induced changes in mesenchymal stromal cell and lymphocyte populations in the BM might be responsible for the observed downregulation of BM eNOS activation.

Given the central role of eNOS on EPC mobilization and the results in Example 5 demonstrating impaired eNOS phosphorylation in diabetic BM the hypothesis that circulating EPCs are decreased in diabetic mice was tested. Our findings demonstrate that diabetic mice have an approximately 50 reduction in circulating EPCs as compared with nondiabetic controls . Hence impairment in the phosphorylation of eNOS to its biologically active form likely results in depressed mobilization of EPCs from BM into peripheral circulation.

Physiologically the NO mediated EPC release into circulation occurs in response to tissue level hypoxia although this compensatory response is inadequate in the setting of diabetes and results in severe defects in neovascularization and wound healing. Interestingly it was determined that hyperoxia is a non physiologic stimulus that increases EPC mobilization via a similar NO mediated mechanism. Therefore it was sought to utilize HBO as a tool to augment EPC release into circulation and further study both EPC mobilization and wound homing mechanisms in the presence of diabetes. The goal was to determine whether hyperoxia stimulates NO production in the BM of diabetic mice via a NOS mediated pathway and whether this pathway is impaired in diabetes. To test this hypothesis Nafion polymer coated NO microsensors were inserted into the femur BM space of both STZ induced diabetic and nondiabetic mice to measure real time NO levels within the BM prior to and is during HBO induced hyperoxia. As predicted diabetic mice demonstrated a significantly attenuated rise in BM NO in response to hyperoxia . Despite this attenuated response significant increases from baseline were still observed in BM NO levels in response to hyperoxia in the diabetic mice. Specifically diabetic mice demonstrated an 800 fold increase in BM NO levels during hyperoxic therapy as compared with a 1 200 fold NO rise in nondiabetic controls. It was speculated that this was likely due to a compensatory effect from other NOS isoforms and therefore the level of both iNOS and nNOS was examined in diabetic mice. As anticipated the expression of both total iNOS and nNOS protein was upregulated in diabetic mice . However no observation was made of any changes in the phosphorylation of these NOS isoforms. These data show that upregulated NOS isoforms require additional stimuli such as hyperoxia to be activated in diabetic mice. Consistent with this hyperoxia induced increases in NO production were completely inhibited in both the diabetic mice and the nondiabetic controls by pretreatment with N nitro 1 arginine methyl ester 1 NAME a nonspecific NOS inhibitor that inhibits all 3 isoforms of the NOS enzyme . Hyperbaric normoxic pressurized and hyperoxic nonpressurized control conditions were also studied and demonstrated no increase in BM NO production data not shown confirming that hyperoxia is the key stimulus for the BM NOS activation

Physiologically increased levels of BM NO result in activation of MMP 9 and conversion of kit ligand to its soluble form ultimately generating EPC release into circulation. To study the effects of the hyperoxia induced rise in NO levels in the marrow cavity on mobilization of EPCs into circulation peripheral blood from diabetic mice was analyzed for EPCs using flow cytometry. A determination of whether hyperoxia induced by HBO increases the number of circulating EPCs in the peripheral blood of diabetic mice was made. Specifically peripheral blood of diabetic mice was examined 18 h after a single HBO treatment. After excluding dead DAPIlabeled cells candidate lymphocytes identified by their typical appearance on forward and side scatter were gated and CD45 CD3cell populations were excluded. Although EPC markers in humans are well established the markers that are present on murine EPCs have yet to be precisely defined. Therefore several marker combinations were used to quantitate circulating EPCs. In independently repeated experiments EPCs were identified as cells double labeled with either Tie2 and VEGFR2 or CXCR4 and VEGFR2. Following treatment with hyperoxia diabetic mice demonstrate a significant 5 fold increase in circulating CXCR4 VEGFR2EPCs and Tie2 VEGFR2EPCs . Nondiabetic mice treated with HBO showed a similar increase in circulating EPCs however the effects of hyperoxia on EPC mobilization were less pronounced as a result of the higher baseline circulating EPC level in the nondiabetic animals. Unlike EPCs the numbers of circuiting lymphocytes were constant before and after HBO treatment indicating that hyperoxia does not affect lymphocyte mobilization in diabetic mice. In order to specifically determine if the hyperoxia induced EPC mobilization is the result of NOS activation a group of mice were treated with L NAME prior to HBO. No increase in EPC mobilization following HBO treatment was observed in any of the L NAME pre treated animals. This data demonstrates that hyperoxia via an NO mediated mechanism increases mobilization of EPCs from BM into circulation and reverses the pre existing circulating EPC deficit in diabetes thus improving the numbers of EPCs potentially available for vasculogenesis and wound healing. However despite the ability of hyperoxia to increase circulating EPCs there was no significant increase in the numbers of EPCs homing to diabetic wounds in response to HBO treatment see confirming prior observations that recruitment of EPCs from circulation to peripheral tissue in diabetes is impaired. Thus it was hypothesized that unfavorable local wound conditions such as decreased levels of the key EPC homing chemokine SDF 1 may explain the diabetic EPC homing defect and hence the disparity between circulating EPC numbers and wound level EPCs in HBO treated diabetic animals.

Physiologically SDF 1 is one of the primary chemokines responsible for the mobilization and homing of EPCs to ischemic tissue. SDF 1 expression is induced in a wide variety of cell types in response to stimuli such as stress and injury. The role of SDF 1 in diabetes related chronic wounds has not been previously studied. Current thinking indicate that in diabetes the impaired neovascularization and delayed healing of cutaneous wounds is at least in part due to the reduced number and function of EPCs but it is likely that other tissue level factors contribute to poor wound healing in diabetes. To examine this issue whether the diabetic phenotype is associated with a decreased expression of SDF 1 in wound granulation tissue was investigated. Peripheral wound tissue from both diabetic and nondiabetic mice at various time points d 5 7 and 9 post STZ treatments was harvested and examined using quantitative real time RT PCR. Our results demonstrate that SDF 1 decreased significantly 50 at d 9 post STZ treatments . Moreover fluorescent microscopy for cells expressing SDF 1 10 d after STZ treatment and 24 h after initial wounds were created. Approximately half as many cells from diabetic wounds expressed SDF 1 as compared to wound cells from nondiabetic mice . To identify the type s of cell s as the source of SDF 1 in diabetic wound lesion a series of double staining SDF 1 and cell type specific antigen was performed to examine myofibroblasts SMC actin epithelial cells keratin 5 inflammatory cells CD3 CD4 and ECs CD31 . Number of cells appear to be responsible for the downregulation of SDF 1 in diabetic wound lesion . Thus in diabetic tissue decreased expression of SDF 1 by cells may account for the lack of homing of EPCs to peripheral wounds despite the increased systemic release of these cells after HBO treatment. These findings suggested a novel therapeutic target in diabetic wound healing.

Based on the findings that SDF 1 expression in peripheral tissue is decreased in diabetes a study of the effects of exogenous administration of SDF 1 via local wound injections both alone and in combination with HBO on EPC mobilization tissue homing and wound healing in diabetic mice was carried out. It was hypothesized a potential synergism on EPC tissue level homing and wound healing using HBO and SDF 1 as combined therapeutic strategies. Interestingly enhanced EPC mobilization was observed in the SDF 1 and HBO treated diabetic animals. Hyperoxia was theorized to enhance EPC mobilization and SDF 1 wound injections while minimally impacting the number of circulating EPCs and increase homing to diabetic wounds. Confirming previous findings tissue level hyperoxia was shown to induce an increase in the mobilization of EPCs into circulation in wounded diabetic mice assessed by flow cytometry of the peripheral blood for cells co expressing CXCR4 and VEGFR2 . In these mice HBO treatment resulted in an approximate 4 fold increase in the percentage of circulating EPCs. Interestingly local wound injections of SDF 1 resulted in a 2 fold rise in EPCs in circulation. Perhaps most striking the combination of HBO and peripheral wound SDF 1 administration resulted in a synergistic 11 fold increase in circulating EPCs.

In order to determine the effect of SDF 1 on homing of the hyperoxia mobilized EPCs to cutaneous wounds BM transplantation experiments were carried out. After 3 wk chimeric mice were injected with STZ to induce diabetes and wounds were generated afterwards. Wounded diabetic chimeric mice were treated with both HBO to mobilize EPCs into circulation and local wound SDF 1 injections to correct the observed decreased levels of this homing cytokine in diabetic wounds. It was hypothesized that the combination of these two treatments by addressing both central systemic release and peripheral homing of EPCs would result in a synergistic enhancement of EPCs available for recruitment and participation in wound healing. The combination treatment was clearly superior to either modality alone with HBO not significantly changing the number of EPCs GFP VEGFR2 present in wound tissue and SDF 1 resulting in a modest but significant 3 fold increase in wound level EPCs . A synergistic 5 fold increase in the number of EPCs was observed in wound tissue of diabetic mice treated with both HBO and SDF 1 compared to untreated diabetic mice. This data indicate that multi modality therapy aimed at improving both mobilization and homing of EPCs is an effective strategy for significantly impacting the number of EPCs available in wound tissue.

EPCs play a key role in vasculogenesis and cutaneous tissue repair. It was hypothesized that increased numbers of EPCs in circulation along with enhanced EPC homing to wounds results in improved wound healing in diabetes. Diabetic wound closure rates were studied in response to treatment with HBO and SDF 1 alone and in combination. Wounded diabetic mice underwent daily wound injections with SDF 1 PBS HBO or SDF 1 HBO treatments. Only 3 days after initial injury wound area was found to decrease by 75 in the group treated with SDF 1 HBO as compared with a 20 decrease in the PBS controls A and B . This healing response was greater than the response to either treatment modality alone. In addition histochemical analysis was conducted to examine blood vessel density VEGFR2 staining cellularity and stromagenesis H E staining and extracellular constitution trichrome staining in wound tissues. Compared with treatment with either HBO or SDF 1 combined HBO SDF 1 therapy substantially promoted angiogenesis and stromagenesis and the deposition of collagen in the granulation tissue C and D . These data provide substantial evidence to support the synergistic effect of HBO SDF 1 therapy on accelerating diabetic wound healing. Overall the data supports the conclusion that these therapies used in concert result in accelerated cutaneous wound healing in diabetic mice. To determine the effect of timing in the initiation of HBO SDF 1 therapy on wound healing in diabetic mice wound closure rates were examined when HBO SDF 1 treatment was initiated on days 0 1 3 and 5 following wounding. Results show that in order to influence wound healing early application of HBO SDF 1 is necessary as initiation of treatment either at initial wounding or 1 day after wounding is effective while delayed treatment day 3 or 5 results in the loss of accelerated wound closure rates .

As insulin is a standard therapy to type I diabetes the effect of insulin on impaired eNOS NO EPC mobilization wound healing in diabetic mice was examined. STZ induced diabetic mice were treated with insulin 6 U kg of human insulin NPH twice d for the duration of each experiment by i.p. injection. The mice with therapeutic euglycemia glucose 

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

