---

title: Plating stand-off
abstract: A stand-off for maintaining the separation between an electrode and an object during a flow-through electroplating process is disclosed. The stand-off comprises a substantially streamlined shape that mitigates the effects of shadowing during deposition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08002956&OS=08002956&RS=08002956
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08002956
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080228
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the United States Government for government purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This invention relates generally to the field s of electro chemical deposition and more particularly to electroplating technology.

Electro chemical deposition processes are used to deposit materials on exposed surfaces of objects. Electro plating is one well known electro chemical deposition process. To plate an object using an electro plating process the object and an electrode are placed in a bath of electroplating solution. The electrode is placed in proximity to the object to be plated and a voltage is applied between the electrode and the object. In the presence of the electric field current flows through the electroplating solution and a chemical reaction occurs the result of which is the deposition of the plating material on the object. Electro plating is a commonly used process for applying a layer of metal to an object.

To increase their lifetime the interior surface of gun barrels such as those used in artillery pieces and tanks are often coated with chromium using a flow through electro plating process. In order to coat the interior surface of a gun barrel a copper electrode of the appropriate diameter with respect to the center bore of the gun barrel is inserted into the barrel during plating. Electroplating solution is flowed through the region between the electrode and the barrel while a voltage is applied between the electrode and the barrel. In the presence of the applied voltage a current flows through the electroplating solution and chromium deposits on the interior surface of the gun barrel.

Conventional hard chromium is electroplated using electric current of approximately 6 000 amperes. Low contraction LC chromium however is highly desirable in many applications including for coatings of gun barrel interiors. Unfortunately the plating of LC chromium requires the use of a much higher current as high as 48 000 amperes. The electric field associated with the electroplating of LC chromium induces a substantial mechanical force between the electrode and the gun barrel. As a result of this force the electrode can bends to one side and electrically short to the gun barrel. Even if the electrode does not short to the gun barrel however the bending effect results in an uneven deposition of chromium on the gun barrel.

In an effort to eliminate bending of the electrode stand offs are inserted into the electrode. These stand offs are installed both radially and axially along the length of the electrode and provide a mechanical stop that helps maintain the separation between the electrode and the interior surface of the gun barrel. While these stand offs do reduce the bending of the electrode they interfere with the flow of electroplating solution through the length of the gun barrel. Due to flow effects such as stagnation and eddying the stand offs cause a shadowing effect that reduces the plating thickness near the locations of the stand offs.

Methods and apparatus which mitigate the problems associated with bending of the electrode while reducing the shadowing effect is therefore desirable.

An advance is made in the art according to the principles of the present invention directed to a stand off and electrode for use in electroplating systems particularly electroplating systems that utilize high electric current and or high electric fields during the coating process. The present invention is particularly well suited for use in flow through low contraction chromium electroplating systems. In some embodiments each of a plurality of stand offs has a first end that is threaded. This threaded portion mates to any of a plurality of holes located in the electrode. Each of the plurality of stand offs also has a second end that tapers to a small point wherein it may contact the inside surface of the object to be coated. In addition each stand off includes a body portion between the first and second end that is substantially streamlined for the direction of electroplating solution flow during the electroplating process. As a result the present invention provides in an improvement in coverage uniformity as compared to electroplating systems known in the prior art.

Object is a gun barrel that comprises an electrically conductive metallic cylinder having inner wall and a center bore. The center bore and wall thickness of object are suitable for launching a projectile such as an artillery shell. In some embodiments inner wall is an electrically conductive layer that is bonded to a cylinder comprising a material that is not electrically conductive. In some embodiments object is an object other than a gun barrel and comprises a shape that is different than a cylinder. It will be clear to those skilled in the art how to make and use object .

Electrode is a copper rod having a diameter appropriate for the center bore of object . Electrode comprises a plurality of threaded holes for receiving a plurality of stand offs . The threaded holes are arrayed on the surface of electrode in a pattern that has a radial and a longitudinal component. The pattern of the threaded holes is suitable for providing adequate support between electrode and object when a high electric field is induced between them. In some embodiments electrode acts as an anode during the process of electroplating. Although the illustrative embodiment comprises a plurality of stand offs wherein the stand offs are arranged at 90 degree increments around the circumference of electrode it will be clear to those skilled in the art after reading this specification how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention wherein a plurality of stand offs are arranged in any manner suitable to maintain the relative position between electrode and inner surface in the presence of an applied electric field associated with the process of electro chemical deposition.

Stand offs are mechanically rigid supports that provide support between electrode and object during the process of electroplating. Stand offs are shaped to be substantially streamlined in the direction of the flow of solution through the region between electrode and object . In other words the shape of stand off is designed to provide minimal perturbation to the flow of electroplating solution through the gap between electrode and object . Stand offs comprise a material that is 1 electrically insulating so that the stand offs are capable of withstanding electric fields associated with electroplating without exhibiting electrical breakdown and 2 substantially chemically inert with respect to the solution used for electroplating object . Suitable materials for stand off include without limitation ceramics high density plastics and glass. In some embodiments stand offs comprise a material that degrades slightly during the process of electroplating. Stand off is described in more detail below and with respect to . The specific positions of stand offs along electrode is a matter of design choice. The positions are selected however to ensure that the physical relationship between electrode and object remains substantially fixed during the process of electroplating.

In some embodiments stand offs comprise alternative connective elements to screw threads such as swage fittings pressure fittings etc. It will be clear to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading this specification how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention wherein stand offs are attached to electrode using connective elements other than screw threads.

At operation electroplating solution is flowed through the cavity between electrode and inner surface . The direction of the flow of electroplating solution is a matter of design choice and in some embodiments of the present invention the flow is opposite that shown in .

Terminals and are electrical terminals suitable for introducing the electrical voltages and currents associated with the process of electroplating. Terminal is electrically connected to electrode and terminal is electrically connected to electrically conductive inner wall of object . In some embodiments terminal is electrically connected to inner wall through the thickness of the sidewall of object . In some embodiments terminals and are suitable for carrying electric currents as high as 50 000 amperes.

At operation a voltage differential is applied across terminals and . As a result a flow of electric current is established through a path that includes terminal electrode the electroplating solution inner surface and terminal . In some embodiments the magnitude of the established electric current is as high as 50 000 amperes.

Body is a structural element that has an elliptical cross section having length L along its major axis and length L along its minor axis. In some embodiments length L is within the range of approximately 0.5 inches to approximately 2 inches. In some embodiments L is approximately 1 inch. In some embodiments length L is within the range of approximately 0.25 inches to approximately 1 inch. In some embodiments L is approximately 0.5 inches. The value of lengths L and L is a matter of design and is influenced by the magnitude of the voltage applied to terminals and the desired separation between electrode and inner surface and the flow rate of electroplating solution through the region between electrode and inner surface .

Cone is a tapered structural element whose cross section transitions in size from that of the cross sectional shape of body to point . In some embodiments the height of cone is within the range of approximately 0.5 inches to approximately 2 inches. In some embodiments the height of cone is approximately 1 inch. The shape of cone is a matter of design however cone should provide 1 sufficient mechanical stability in the presence of the electric field associated with the process of electroplating and 2 be able to withstand the force associated with the flow of electroplating solution.

The shape of body and cone is chosen to provide a substantially streamlined shape for the flow of electroplating solution. As a result of the shape of body and cone electroplating solution does not become substantially depleted behind stand off relative to the direction of the flow due to stagnation or eddying of the fluid.

Threaded portion comprises a thread that is suitable for mating to the threaded holes located on electrode .

It is to be understood that the above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the instant invention and that many variations of the above described embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention. For example in this Disclosure numerous specific details are provided in order to provide a thorough description and understanding of the illustrative embodiments of the instant invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of those details or with other methods materials components etc.

Furthermore in some instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the illustrative embodiments. It is understood that the various embodiments shown in the Figures are illustrative and are not necessarily drawn to scale. Reference throughout the disclosure to one embodiment or an embodiment or some embodiments means that a particular feature structure material or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment s is included in at least one embodiment of the instant invention but not necessarily all embodiments. Consequently the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in an embodiment or in some embodiments in various places throughout the Disclosure are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures materials or characteristics can be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. It is therefore intended that such variations be included within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

