---

title: Uplink coverage via autonomous retransmission
abstract: A device () receives consecutive negative acknowledgments (NACKs) (), measures a downlink channel quality () associated with the device (), and triggers autonomous retransmission () when power is limited in the device (), when the device () is using a minimum usable enhanced dedicated channel (E-DCH) transport format combination (ETFC), and when one of a number of consecutive NACKs () is greater than a predefined number or the measured downlink channel quality () is less than a predefined threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08413003&OS=08413003&RS=08413003
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 08413003
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20081202
---
This application is the U.S. national phase of International Application No. PCT SE2008 051394 filed 2 Dec. 2008 which designated the U.S. and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional No. 61 050 370 filed 5 May 2008 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments described herein relate generally to wireless communication systems and more particularly to improved uplink coverage in wireless communication systems via autonomous retransmission.

Enhanced uplink EUL is proposed in the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Release 6 to improve uplink performance of Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA systems. Two transmission time intervals TTIs are proposed for enhanced uplink a ten 10 milliseconds TTI and a two 2 milliseconds TTI. The ten milliseconds TTI provides similar cell coverage as previous Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS releases but its cell throughput is too small. The two milliseconds TTI provides better cell throughput than the ten milliseconds TTI but its cell coverage is insufficient.

One technique that improves enhanced uplink coverage is hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ retransmission. According to current 3GPP specifications enhanced uplink HARQ retransmission can occur only after expiration of a round trip time RTT . Since the RTT for the two milliseconds TTI is sixteen 16 milliseconds and three 3 retransmissions may be required to guarantee reliable reception of a packet a retransmission delay of forty eight 48 milliseconds could be introduced by enhanced uplink HARQ. Such a delay may not be acceptable for some delay sensitive services e.g. voice over Internet protocol VoIP services etc. .

Autonomous retransmission has been proposed as an effective way to reduce such HARQ retransmission delay. A core concept of autonomous retransmission is that user equipment UE sends a number of retransmissions consecutively without waiting for receipt of a negative acknowledgment NACK before starting the next retransmission. However if three retransmissions are required autonomous retransmission may only reduce the retransmission delay to six 6 milliseconds. Some autonomous retransmission techniques describe how a receiver knows that a bundle of transmissions are designated for a single packet how the receiver decodes the packets transmitted with autonomous retransmission correctly how to apply autonomous retransmission in high speed downlink packet access HSDPA how to use autonomous retransmission for extended coverage how to apply autonomous retransmission to notify a non serving Node B etc.

Although autonomous retransmission is an effective way to improve uplink coverage it still suffers from several drawbacks. For example if autonomous retransmission is applied with an excessively large number of transmission attempts or at an inappropriate time autonomous retransmission will generate unnecessary interference in a system. On the other hand autonomous retransmission with less or an inadequate number of transmission attempts can not take full advantage of the benefits of the technique.

It is an object of the invention to overcome at least some of the above disadvantages and to trigger autonomous retransmission at an appropriate time and with an appropriate number of HARQ retransmissions.

Embodiments described herein may apply autonomous retransmission techniques to improve enhanced uplink coverage for systems e.g. WCDMA systems providing two milliseconds TTIs . In one embodiment for example user equipment UE may receive condition information may receive communicated information from a base station BS and may generate an appropriate number of retransmissions and an appropriate timing for the retransmissions based on the received information. The appropriate number of retransmissions and the appropriate timing for the retransmissions may ensure that enhanced uplink coverage is improved.

In an exemplary embodiment the condition information may include power usage in the user equipment whether the user equipment is using a minimum usable enhanced dedicated channel E DCH transport format combination ETFC a measured downlink channel quality whether a number of consecutive NACKs are received by the user equipment etc. The user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission when power in the user equipment is limited when the user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and when one of the measured downlink channel quality is less than a predefined threshold or the number of consecutive NACKs received by the user equipment is greater than a predefined number. The user equipment may determine the appropriate number of retransmissions based on a measured power clipping associated with the user equipment.

In another exemplary embodiment the user equipment may estimate a data signal to interference ratio SIR also known as a carrier to interference ratio CIR associated with a channel and may determine whether a difference between the estimated data SIR and a SIR for a transport format is greater than a certain decibel level. The user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission when power in the user equipment is limited when the user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and when the difference is greater than the certain decibel level.

In still another exemplary embodiment the condition information may include an estimate of the SIR in the base station positive acknowledgments ACKs received by the user equipment NACKs received by the user equipment etc. The user equipment may determine the appropriate number of retransmissions may increase the number of retransmissions when a certain number of consecutive NACKs are received and may decrease the number of retransmissions when a certain number of consecutive ACKs are received.

In a further exemplary embodiment the base station may determine a required SIR for a transport format may measure a current SIR associated with the base station and may calculate the number of retransmissions based on the required SIR and the current SIR. The base station may provide the calculated number of retransmissions to the user equipment e.g. as the communicated information and the user equipment may generate the calculated number of retransmissions when power in the user equipment is limited and when the user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC.

Such an arrangement may ensure that autonomous retransmission is triggered at an appropriate time and with an appropriate number of HARQ retransmissions. This may reduce unnecessary interference generated by autonomous retransmission e.g. such as occurs when the number of autonomous retransmissions are excessively large or not necessary may reduce packet transmission delay and may improve cell coverage for delay sensitive services.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Embodiments described herein may apply autonomous retransmission techniques to improve enhanced uplink coverage for systems e.g. WCDMA systems providing two milliseconds TTIs . The autonomous retransmission techniques described herein may be used to generate an appropriate number of retransmissions and an appropriate timing for the retransmissions and may ensure that enhanced uplink coverage is improved.

User equipment may include one or more devices capable of sending receiving voice and or data to from radio access network . In one embodiment user equipment may include for example a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer etc. In another embodiment user equipment may receive condition information e.g. as described in further detail below may receive communicated information e.g. as described in further detail below from base station and may generate an appropriate number of retransmissions and an appropriate timing for the retransmissions based on the received information. The appropriate number of retransmissions and the appropriate timing for the retransmissions may ensure that enhanced uplink coverage is improved.

Radio access network may include one or more devices for transmitting voice and or data to user equipment and core network . As illustrated radio access network may include a group of base stations BSs through M referred to collectively as base stations and in some instances individually as base station and a group of radio network controllers RNCs through N referred to collectively as radio network controllers and in some instances individually as radio network controller . Four base stations and two radio network controllers are shown in for simplicity. In practice there may be more or fewer base stations and or radio network controllers . Also in some instances a component in radio access network e.g. one or more of base stations and radio network controllers may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another component or group of components in radio access network .

Base stations also referred to as Node Bs may include one or more devices that receive voice and or data from radio network controllers and transmit that voice and or data to user equipment via an air interface. Base stations may also include one or more devices that receive voice and or data from user equipment over an air interface and transmit that voice and or data to radio network controllers or other user equipment .

In one embodiment base station may detect or estimate a data SIR associated with a channel and may determine whether a difference between the detected or estimated data SIR and a SIR for a transport format is greater than a certain decibel level. Base station may provide the determination of the difference to user equipment e.g. as the communicated information and user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission when power in the user equipment is limited when the user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and when the difference is greater than the certain decibel level.

In another embodiment base station may determine a required SIR for a transport format may measure a current SIR associated with base station and may calculate a number of retransmissions based on the required SIR and the current SIR. Base station may provide the calculated number of retransmissions to user equipment e.g. as the communicated information and user equipment may generate the calculated number of retransmissions.

Radio network controllers may include one or more devices that control and manage base stations . Radio network controllers may also include devices that perform data processing to manage utilization of radio network services. Radio network controllers may transmit receive voice and data to from base stations other radio network controllers and or core network .

A radio network controller may act as a controlling radio network controller CRNC a drift radio network controller DRNC or a serving radio network controller SRNC . A CRNC may be responsible for controlling the resources of a base station . On the other hand an SRNC may serve particular user equipment and may manage connections towards that user equipment . Likewise a DRNC may fulfill a similar role to the SRNC e.g. may route traffic between a SRNC and particular user equipment .

As illustrated in a radio network controller may connect to a base station via an Iub interface and to another radio network controller via an Iur interface.

Core network may include one or more devices that transfer receive voice and or data to a circuit switched and or packet switched network. In one embodiment core network may include for example a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway MSC GMSC a Media Gateway MGW a Serving General Packet Radio Service GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and or other devices.

Antennas may include one or more directional and or omni directional antennas. Transceivers may be associated with antennas and may include transceiver circuitry for transmitting and or receiving symbol sequences in a network such as network via antennas .

Processing system may control the operation of base station . Processing system may also process information received via transceivers and Iub interface . Processing system may further measure quality and strength of connection may determine the frame error rate FER and may transmit this information to radio network controller . As illustrated processing system may include a processing unit and a memory .

Processing unit may include a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or the like. Processing unit may process information received via transceivers and Iub interface . The processing may include for example data conversion forward error correction FEC rate adaptation Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA spreading dispreading quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation etc. In addition processing unit may generate control messages and or data messages and may cause those control messages and or data messages to be transmitted via transceivers and or Iub interface . Processing unit may also process control messages and or data messages received from transceivers and or Iub interface .

Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of memory to store data and instructions that may be used by processing unit .

Iub interface may include one or more line cards that allow base station to transmit data to and receive data from a radio network controller .

As described herein base station may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions of an application contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via antennas and transceivers . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus embodiments described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of base station in other embodiments base station may contain fewer different or additional components than depicted in . In still other embodiments one or more components of base station may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of base station .

Processing unit may include a processor a microprocessor an ASIC a FPGA or the like. Processing unit may control operation of user equipment and its components. In one embodiment processing unit may control operation of components of user equipment in a manner described herein.

Memory may include a RAM a ROM and or another type of memory to store data and instructions that may be used by processing unit .

User interface may include mechanisms for inputting information to user equipment and or for outputting information from user equipment .

Communication interface may include for example a transmitter that may convert baseband signals from processing unit to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that may convert RF signals to baseband signals. Alternatively communication interface may include a transceiver to perform functions of both a transmitter and a receiver. Communication interface may connect to antenna assembly for transmission and or reception of the RF signals.

Antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive signals through a radio interface. Antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit them through the radio interface and receive RF signals through the radio interface and provide them to communication interface . In one embodiment for example communication interface may communicate with a network e.g. network and or devices connected to a network.

As described herein user equipment may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions of an application contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus embodiments described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of user equipment in other embodiments user equipment may contain fewer different or additional components than depicted in . In still other embodiments one or more components of user equipment may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of user equipment .

As shown in user equipment and base station may receive and or determine condition information . Condition information may include power usage in user equipment whether user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC a measured downlink channel quality whether a number of consecutive NACKs are received by user equipment measured power clipping in user equipment an estimate of the SIR in base station positive acknowledgments ACKs received by user equipment NACKs received by user equipment etc.

As further shown in user equipment and base station may exchange communicated information among each other. Communicated information may include a determination e.g. by base station of a difference between a detected or estimated data SIR and a SIR for a transport format a calculated number of retransmissions based on a required SIR for a transport format and a current SIR associated with base station etc.

User equipment may utilize condition information and or communicated information to determine timing for retransmissions e.g. an appropriate time to trigger autonomous retransmission and a number of retransmissions e.g. HARQ retransmission attempts for autonomous retransmission .

In one exemplary embodiment user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission e.g. timing for retransmissions when power in user equipment is limited when user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and when either the to measured downlink channel quality is less than a predefined threshold or the number of consecutive NACKs received by user equipment is greater than a predefined number. In another exemplary embodiment user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission e.g. timing for retransmissions when power in user equipment is limited when user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and when a difference between a detected or estimated data SIR and a SIR for a transport format is determined to be greater than a certain decibel level e.g. three decibels .

In one exemplary embodiment user equipment may determine a number of retransmissions may increase number of retransmissions when a certain number of consecutive NACKs are received and may decrease number of retransmissions when a certain number of consecutive ACKs are received. In another exemplary embodiment base station may determine a required SIR for a transport format may measure a current SIR associated with base station and may calculate number of retransmissions based on the required SIR and the current SIR. Base station may provide the calculated number of retransmissions to user equipment e.g. as communicated information and user equipment may generate number of retransmissions .

Although shows exemplary interactions between user equipment and base station in other embodiments user equipment and base station may perform fewer different or additional interactions than depicted in .

As shown in user equipment may determine whether it is power limited and may determine whether it is using a minimum usable ETFC . User equipment may measure a downlink channel quality and may receive one or more NACKs . Downlink channel quality may include a quality e.g. a common pilot channel CPICH committed information rate CIR or a channel quality indicator CIQ associated with a downlink channel. User equipment may determine whether a number of consecutive NACKs is greater than a predefined number and whether downlink channel quality is lower than a predefined threshold. In one exemplary embodiment if user equipment is power limited user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and either the number of consecutive NACKs is greater than the predefined number or downlink channel quality is lower than the predefined threshold user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission e.g. timing for retransmissions .

As further shown in base station may receive or estimate a data SIR and may provide data SIR to user equipment e.g. via communicated information . User equipment may determine whether a difference between data SIR and a required SIR for a transport format associated with base station is greater than a certain decibel level e.g. three decibels . In one exemplary embodiment if user equipment is power limited user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and the difference between data SIR and a required SIR for a transport format associated with base station is greater than a certain decibel level user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission e.g. timing for retransmissions .

Although shows exemplary interactions between user equipment and base station in other embodiments user equipment and base station may perform fewer different or additional interactions than depicted in .

Retransmission calculator may include any hardware software or combination of hardware and software that may calculate number of retransmissions . In one embodiment retransmission calculator may receive a required power offset P for a transport format may receive an actually used power offset P for the transport format and may calculate number of retransmissions based on P and P. In one exemplary embodiment retransmission calculator may calculate number of retransmissions based on the following floor db2lin P P where db2lin may convert decibels to a linear scale e.g. decibels 1.0 and floor may determine a greatest integer less than or equal to an input value. Retransmission calculator may provide number of retransmissions to retransmission adjuster .

Retransmission adjuster may include any hardware software or combination of hardware and software that may receive number of retransmissions from retransmission calculator may receive NACKs and or ACKs e.g. received by user equipment and may adjust number of retransmissions based on NACKs or ACKs . In one exemplary embodiment retransmission adjuster may increase number of retransmissions e.g. by a value of one when a certain number of consecutive NACKs are received e.g. by user equipment . In another exemplary embodiment retransmission adjuster may decrease number of retransmissions e.g. by a value of one when a certain number of consecutive ACKs are received e.g. by user equipment .

Retransmission timing calculator may include any hardware software or combination of hardware and software that may receive a SIR SIR required for the transport format may receive an estimate of a SIR SIR associated with base station and may calculate retransmission times e.g. timing for autonomous retransmission based on SIR and SIR. In one exemplary embodiment retransmission timing calculator may calculate retransmission times based on the following floor db2lin SIR SIR where db2lin may convert decibels to a linear scale e.g. 0 decibels 1.0 and floor may determine a greatest integer less than or equal to an input value.

Although shows exemplary functional components of user equipment in other embodiments user equipment may contain fewer different or additional functional components than depicted in . In still other embodiments one or more functional components of user equipment may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of user equipment .

Interference calculator may include any hardware software or combination of hardware and software that may receive a transmission power P of a common pilot channel CPICH may receive a received signal code power RSCP of the CPICH and may receive SIR. Interference calculator may measure a path gain pathgain to base station based on P and RSCP . In one exemplary embodiment when user equipment chooses ETFC in a minimum ETFC set interference calculator may estimate an interference I at base station when ACKs are received according to the following 

SIR estimator may include any hardware software or combination of hardware and software that may receive interference from interference calculator may receive transmission power P and may receive a new measured path gain pathgain . In one exemplary embodiment SIR estimator may assume that a total interference is constant in a short period of time and may calculate SIR in base station according to the following 

Although shows exemplary functional components of user equipment in other embodiments user equipment may contain fewer different or additional functional components than depicted in . In still other embodiments one or more functional components of user equipment may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of user equipment .

Retransmission calculator may include any hardware software or combination of hardware and software that may receive SIR required for the transport format may receive a SIR SIR measured in base station and may calculate number of retransmissions based on SIR and SIR. In one exemplary embodiment retransmission calculator may calculate number of retransmissions based on the following floor db2lin SIR SIR where db2lin may convert decibels to a linear scale e.g. 0 decibels 1.0 and floor may determine a greatest integer less than or equal to an input value. Retransmission calculator may provide number of retransmissions to user equipment e.g. via communicated information . User equipment may generate the number of retransmissions when power in user equipment is limited and when user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC.

Although shows an exemplary functional component of base station in other embodiments base station may contain different or additional functional components than depicted in .

It may be necessary for user equipment to notify a base station e.g. base station about a number of autonomous retransmissions so that base station may decode packets correctly. As shown in if user equipment is using a low bit rate service e.g. VoIP and since it may be impossible for a low bit rate service to use very large ETFC user equipment may provide to base station a notification of the number of retransmissions via a very large E DCH transport format combination indicator E TFCI . Notification may inform base station that user equipment is using a small E DCH transport format indicator ETFI and several autonomous retransmissions. Base station may know that user equipment is transmitting with a low bit rate service via a RNC e.g. RNC .

As further shown in in order to provide communicated information from base station to user equipment base station may suggest to user equipment as to when to enable autonomous retransmission and may suggest a corresponding number of retransmission attempts as indicated by reference number . In one embodiment base station may convey enable autonomous retransmission to user equipment via an E DCH absolute grant channel E AGCH as indicated by reference number . A very large absolute grant AG may be used to represent the times of retransmission attempts without confusing user equipment because user equipment may be power limited and may use a minimum set ETFC. User equipment may not expect to receive very large absolute grants.

As also shown in since AG may be sent from serving base station to user equipment and non serving base station may not be aware of this base station may provide a notification of a number of retransmissions for autonomous retransmission to non serving base station . In one embodiment base station may convey notification to user equipment via an E AGCH.

Although shows exemplary interactions between user equipment base station and base station in other embodiments user equipment base station and base station may perform fewer different or additional interactions than depicted in .

As illustrated in process may include determining whether power is limited in user equipment block determining whether the user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC block receiving consecutive negative acknowledgments NACKs block determining whether a number of consecutive NACKs is greater than a predefined number block measuring downlink channel quality block and determining whether the measured downlink channel quality is less than a predefined threshold block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may receive and or determine condition information . Condition information may include power usage in user equipment whether user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC a measured downlink channel quality and whether a number of consecutive NACKs are received by user equipment .

Returning to autonomous retransmission may be triggered when the user equipment is power limited when the user equipment is using the minimum usable ETFC and when one of the number of consecutive NACKs is greater than the predefined number or the measured downlink channel quality is less than the predefined threshold block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may utilize condition information to determine timing for retransmissions e.g. an appropriate time to trigger autonomous retransmission . In one example user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission e.g. timing for retransmissions when power in user equipment is limited when user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and when either the measured downlink channel quality is less than a predefined threshold or the number of consecutive NACKs received by user equipment is greater than a predefined number.

As illustrated in process may include determining whether power is limited in user equipment block and determining of whether the user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may receive and or determine condition information . Condition information may include power usage in user equipment and whether user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC.

As further shown in it may be determined whether a difference between a detected or estimated data SIR at a base station and a SIR for a transport format is greater than a certain decibel level may be received from the base station block and autonomous retransmission may be triggered when the user equipment is power limited when the user equipment is using the minimum usable ETFC and when the difference is greater than the certain decibel level block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may determine whether a difference between data SIR and a required SIR for a transport format associated with base station is greater than a certain decibel level e.g. three decibels . In one example if user equipment is power limited user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC and the difference between data SIR and a required SIR for a transport format associated with base station is greater than a certain decibel level user equipment may trigger autonomous retransmission e.g. timing for retransmissions .

As illustrated in process may include determining a number of retransmissions block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may include retransmission calculator . Retransmission calculator may calculate number of retransmissions . In one example retransmission calculator may receive required power offset P for a transport format and may receive actually used power offset P for the transport format. Retransmission calculator may calculate number of retransmissions based on P and P.

As further shown in positive acknowledgements ACKs and or negative acknowledgements NACKs may be received block the number of retransmissions may be increased when a certain number of consecutive NACKs are received block and or the number of retransmissions may be decreased when a certain number of consecutive ACKs are received block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may include retransmission adjuster . Retransmission adjuster may receive number of retransmissions from retransmission calculator may receive NACKs and or ACKs e.g. received by user equipment and may adjust number of retransmissions based on NACKs or ACKs . In one example retransmission adjuster may increase number of retransmissions e.g. by a value of one when a certain number of consecutive NACKs are received e.g. by user equipment . In another example retransmission adjuster may decrease number of retransmissions e.g. by a value of one when a certain number of consecutive ACKs are received e.g. by user equipment .

Returning to a received SIR in a base station may be estimated block and the estimated SIR may be compared with a required SIR in the base station to calculate retransmission times for autonomous retransmission block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with user equipment may include retransmission timing calculator . Retransmission timing calculator may receive SIR SIR required for the transport format may receive estimate of a SIR SIR associated with base station and may calculate retransmission times e.g. timing for autonomous retransmission based on SIR and SIR. In one example when a number of autonomous retransmissions is adjusted adaptively based on a number of consecutive NACKs e.g. consecutive NACKs and or consecutive ACKs e.g. consecutive ACKs received estimation of the received SIR may not be needed and process blocks and may be omitted.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include receiving or obtaining a required power offset P for a transport format block receiving or obtaining an actually used power offset P for the transport format block and calculating the number of retransmissions according to floor db2lin P P block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with retransmission calculator may receive required power offset P for a transport format may receive actually used power offset P for the transport format and may calculate number of retransmissions based on the following floor db2lin P P where db2lin may convert decibels to a linear scale e.g. 0 decibels 1.0 and floor may determine a greatest integer less than or equal to an input value.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include measuring a path gain pathgain to the base station via a transmission power P of CPICH and a received RSCP of CPICH block and estimating interference I at the base station when an ACK is received according to

As further shown in process block may include measuring a new path gain pathgain to the base station block determining the estimated SIR SIR in the base station according to

As illustrated in process may include determining a required SIR SIR for a transport format block measuring a current SIR SIR block and calculating a number of retransmissions for autonomous retransmission according to floor db2lin SIR SIR block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with base station may include retransmission calculator . Retransmission calculator may receive SIR required for the transport format may receive SIR SIR measured in base station and may calculate number of retransmissions based on SIR and SIR. In one example retransmission calculator may calculate number of retransmissions based on the following floor db2lin SIR SIR where db2lin may convert decibels to a linear scale e.g. 0 decibels 1.0 and floor may determine a greatest integer less than or equal to an input value. Retransmission calculator may provide number of retransmissions to user equipment e.g. via communicated information . User equipment may generate the number of retransmissions when power in user equipment is limited and when user equipment is using a minimum usable ETFC.

As illustrated in process may begin with receipt by base station of information indicating that user equipment is transmitting with a low bit rate service using by user equipment a large E TFCI to generate a first notification indicating that user equipment is using small ETFI with several autonomous retransmissions block providing by user equipment the first notification to base station block and receiving by base station the first notification block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with if user equipment is using a low bit rate service e.g. VoIP and since it may be impossible for a low bit rate service to use very large ETFC user equipment may provide to base station notification of the number of retransmissions via very large E DCH transport format combination indicator E TFCI . Notification may inform base station that user equipment is using a small E DCH transport format indicator ETFI and several autonomous retransmissions. Base station may know that user equipment is transmitting with low bit rate service via a RNC e.g. RNC .

Returning to base station may generate a second notification indicating a suggestion when to enable autonomous retransmission and a suggested corresponding number of transmission attempts block base station may provide the second notification to user equipment block user equipment may receive the second notification block and base station may provide to a non serving base station a third notification indicating a number of retransmissions block . For example in embodiments described above in connection with in order to provide communicated information from base station to user equipment base station may suggest to user equipment as to when to enable autonomous retransmission and may suggest a corresponding number retransmission attempts as indicated by reference number . Base station may convey enable autonomous retransmission to user equipment via an E DCH absolute grant channel E AGCH as indicated by reference number . A very large absolute grant AG may be used to represent the times of retransmission attempts without confusing user equipment because user equipment may be power limited and may use a minimum set ETFC. Since AG may be sent from serving base station to user equipment and non serving base station may not be aware of this base station may provide notification of a number of retransmissions for autonomous retransmission to non serving base station .

Embodiments described herein may apply autonomous retransmission techniques to improve enhanced uplink coverage for systems e.g. WCDMA systems providing two milliseconds TTIs . In one embodiment for example user equipment UE may receive condition information may receive communicated information from a base station BS and may generate an appropriate number of retransmissions and an appropriate timing for the retransmissions based on the received information. The appropriate number of retransmissions and the appropriate timing for the retransmissions may ensure that enhanced uplink coverage is improved.

Such an arrangement may ensure that autonomous retransmission is triggered at an appropriate time and with an appropriate number of HARQ retransmissions. This may reduce unnecessary interference generated by autonomous retransmission e.g. such as occurs when the number of autonomous retransmissions are excessively large or not necessary may reduce packet transmission delay and may improve cell coverage for delay sensitive services.

Embodiments described herein provide illustration and description but are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other embodiments. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

The exemplary embodiments as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement the exemplary embodiments described herein is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the exemplary embodiments were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that one would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the exemplary embodiments based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as logic that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit a field programmable gate array a processor or a microprocessor or a combination of hardware and software.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification.

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises comprising when used in the this specification are taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

