---

title: Method and apparatus for reducing storage requirements of electronic records
abstract: An embodiment of the present invention includes a system for storage of electronic records. The system includes a storage unit to store records and a processing system to store and retrieve records from the storage unit. The processing system receives non-exception based records and stores the records in the storage unit. This is accomplished by storing unique information from each received non-exception based record within the storage unit separately from information common to a plurality of non-exception based records. The stored unique information is linked with the stored common information. The present invention embodiments further include a method and a program product apparatus for storing electronic records as described above.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117234&OS=08117234&RS=08117234
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08117234
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080124
---
The present invention embodiments pertain to data management and storage. In particular embodiments of the present invention pertain to a system and method that store records by associating unique record information with a single instance of data commonly residing within one or more of the records. This reduces the storage requirements of the records since the common data is not repeatedly stored for each record.

Electronic records management systems are employed by various organizations or entities and store a collection of data for each record managed by the systems. The records may be generated by various processes including business processes where records generated by the business processes in the course of conducting business transactions may include various data items e.g. process version details terms and conditions contract details product information customer or user information etc. . Generally the business processes repeatedly perform the same transaction for many different customers or users. Consequently a substantial portion of data within the records generated by these transactions is common across transaction instances. Since the electronic records management systems store the generated transaction records the same information is repeatedly stored for each record by those systems thereby needlessly consuming additional storage space.

In addition organizations revise their core business processes and records management policies in order to comply with regulatory requirements. These revisions generally increase the volume of electronic records that are generated e.g. including records with common data and placed into medium to long term storage and tend to further contribute to the needless consumption of additional storage space.

Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention includes a system for storage of electronic records. The system includes a storage unit to store records and a processing system to store and retrieve records from the storage unit. The processing system receives non exception based records and stores the records in the storage unit. This is accomplished by storing unique information from each received non exception based record within the storage unit separately from information common to a plurality of non exception based records. The stored unique information is linked with the stored common information. The present invention embodiments further include a method and a program product apparatus for storing electronic records as described above.

The above and still further features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of example embodiments thereof particularly when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals in the various figures are utilized to designate like components.

The present invention embodiments are directed towards reducing the storage requirements for electronic records preferably those that contain common data or information and are non exception based e.g. generated from transactions or processes that comply with predefined business or other parameters service level agreements SLAs and or processing requirements . Since a direct correlation exists between the quantity of electronic records generated and the amount of data stored in an electronic records management system ERM the present invention embodiments enable a reduction in the total amount of data generated and stored for these types of electronic records. In particular the present invention embodiments capture a subset of the total information within the electronic record and store the captured information in a unique record object URO . The captured information subset includes information unique to the particular record e.g. customer information date or time stamp product or service identifier etc. . The remaining record information e.g. process description product information service level agreements terms and conditions etc. is common to a plurality of records and is stored once in a template record object TRO . The unique record object or unique record information is linked or associated with the corresponding template record object or common record information where the association or linking information is stored within and maintained by a record information object RIO .

With respect to records generated from transactions or processes that fall outside of pre defined business or other parameters service level agreements SLAs and or processing requirements e.g. transactions that generate exceptions or are exception based the present invention embodiments capture a complete and detailed record of the entire transaction including the exception conditions and circumstances. This produces a larger electronic record. However since most organizations seek to minimize process exceptions the volume of larger exception based records should be minimized.

The present invention embodiments substantially reduce electronic record storage requirements for non exception based records especially for organizations that generate and store high volumes of electronic records as a result of their core business processes and or operations generate and store large quantities of records containing common information conduct business according to documented and audited procedures in order to meet regulatory and compliance requirements and or require cost effective near term storage and associated benefits e.g. fast access to large quantities of electronic records .

An example system for storing electronic records according to an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . Specifically the system includes one or more end user or client systems a network one or more process servers one or more data servers one or more databases or object stores and one or more databases or object stores . The end user and server systems may be implemented by any conventional or other computer systems preferably equipped with a display or monitor a base e.g. including the processor memories and or internal or external communications devices e.g. modem network cards etc. and optional input devices e.g. a keyboard mouse or other input device .

End user systems are coupled to process server via network while the process server may similarly access data server over the network. Network may be implemented by any quantity of any suitable communications media e.g. WAN LAN Internet Intranet etc. . End user systems and server systems may be local to or remote from each other. By way of example only process server system may include a business process application or module . The business process module typically provides a user interface to enable a user to conduct a business or other transaction from end user system . The transaction further enables storage and or retrieval of records within databases as described below. However the process server may include any desired modules to perform or implement various processes e.g. workflows content management business or other transactions etc. that conduct record generation processing and or storage.

Data server includes a data manager module and a file plan object store . The data manager module includes a series of file plan modules and facilitates storage and retrieval of electronic records within databases as described below. Database or object store generally stores complete record information for exception based records produced from transactions generating an exception e.g. a transaction that does not comply with desired conditions . In this case the entire record is captured and stored in a corresponding database as described below. Database or object store stores non exception based records produced from compliant transactions e.g. a transaction that complies with desired conditions in accordance with present invention embodiments as described below. These records contain common information and are placed in database by storing information unique to each record separate from the common information as described below. File plan object store includes a file plan that indicates the manner in which to store information within databases . The databases and server systems may be local to or remote from each other. Further the databases and object stores may be implemented by any quantity of any conventional or other database object store or storage structure e.g. databases files data structures etc. .

The business process module data manager module file plan modules and file plan object store may be implemented by any combination of software and or hardware modules or units. The data manager module and file plan modules may be embedded within any portions of any suitable data or content management system e.g. records management or other application etc. . The data server under software control e.g. data manger module file plan modules and file plan object store basically implement the embodiments of the present invention. The software for the present invention embodiments e.g. data manager module file plan modules file plan object store etc. may be available on a recordable medium e.g. magnetic optical floppy DVD CD within a memory device or program storage unit etc. or in the form of a carrier wave or signal for downloading from a source via a communication medium e.g. bulletin board network WAN LAN Intranet Internet etc. .

Referring to file plan object store includes a file plan indicating the manner in which to store records. The file plan includes a hierarchical or directory structure including tiers of folders and subordinate tiers of sub folders to receive record information. Data manager module includes file plan modules each associated with a corresponding folder and or subfolder to store records from those folders and or sub folders in a particular prescribed manner. In other words different manners of processing and storing records may be assigned among folders and or sub folders .

When a record is produced from a process or transaction data manager module determines the appropriate folder and or sub folder within the file plan to accommodate the record. This may be accomplished based on business or process criteria and or metadata associated with the record folder and or sub folder. For example one of the criteria may indicate that all non exception based records associated with a dollar amount less than a predetermined value are to be placed in a particular folder. Once record information is placed in a folder and or subfolder of structure the file plan module associated with that folder and or sub folder stores the record in a corresponding database or in accordance with the prescribed manner assigned to that folder and or subfolder.

File plan modules associated with folders and or sub folders for exception based records store the entire record within a corresponding database or object store as described below. However file plan modules associated with folders and or sub folders for non exception based records store unique and common information within records separately in order to reduce the storage requirements for those records. Accordingly database or object store includes one or more unique record objects to store the unique record information one or more record information objects RIO to link the separately stored unique and common record information and one or more template record objects TRO to store the common record information. In particular template record objects each include information commonly contained within a plurality or group of records or record objects . The common information includes the same information stored in each record that is repeatedly generated by a business or other process. For example the common information may include the same information generated from a business or other transaction conducted for different customers or users e.g. process details or description product and or service details contract details terms and conditions service level agreements graphics logos and other generic information pertinent to record keeping or other policies . This information is preferably in the form of text but may include images. The template record objects each further include a TRO internal reference identifier to uniquely identify that template record object. The TRO identifier may include any quantity of any suitable alphanumeric or other characters or symbols and may be generated by any conventional or other techniques e.g. random generation formulas or calculations sequential ordering various identifiers corresponding to system and or storage addresses locations etc. . A single template record object is stored within database or object store for each group or plurality of records containing the common information.

Unique record objects each include information unique to a corresponding record or record object . In other words this information includes remaining information within the record not contained in a corresponding template record object . For example the unique information may include different information generated from a business or other transaction conducted for different customers or users e.g. process transaction identification customer reference identifier customer information product or service identifier date time etc. . This information is preferably in the form of text. The unique record objects each further include a URO internal reference identifier to uniquely identify that unique record object. The URO identifier may include any quantity of any suitable alphanumeric or other characters or symbols and may be generated by any conventional or other techniques e.g. random generation formulas or calculations sequential ordering various identifiers corresponding to system and or storage addresses locations etc. . A unique record object is stored in database or object store for each record . Alternatively unique record objects may be stored within the corresponding folders and or sub folders of file plan determined for the records by data manager module .

Record information objects RIO each store information linking the unique information of records within unique record objects to their corresponding common information within template record objects . A single record information object is associated with and stored in database or object store for each template record object . By way of example the linking information stored within each record information object may include the URO identifiers of one or more unique record objects the TRO identifier of the corresponding template record object the record folder within file plan determined for the record the record category and the record type. The record information objects each further include an RIO internal reference identifier to uniquely identify that record information object. The RIO identifier may further be placed in the corresponding template record object to provide a link from the template record object to the record information object. The RIO identifier may include any quantity of any suitable alphanumeric or other characters or symbols and may be generated by any conventional or other techniques e.g. random generation formulas or calculations sequential ordering various identifiers corresponding to system and or storage addresses locations etc. . The combination of unique record object and corresponding template record object basically enable re creation or formation of a corresponding record e.g. for display print and or audit purposes . Since template record objects or common information are stored once for a group of records the storage requirements for those records are significantly reduced.

The manner in which records are handled according to an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . Initially template record objects are created and pre stored in databases or object stores . The template record objects may be created based on process information e.g. standard transaction details service level agreement details etc. and or content information e.g. contract information terms and conditions product and or service descriptions graphics logos etc. . Since the record format or information for transactions are known the information common to the records may be pre stored in the template record objects and associated with folders and or sub folders in file plan and or record metadata e.g. record types and categories . The system may generate the TRO identifiers for the template record objects upon insertion into databases and may further produce record information objects including the TRO and RIO identifiers based on the association of the template record objects to the file plan folders and or sub folders and or record metadata . New versions of template record objects and record information objects are created in response to revision of the standard process definition e.g. change in parameters processes SLAs terms and conditions etc. and or common content. Prior versions of template record objects and record information objects may be removed in response to the absence of unique record objects associated with those prior versions.

Specifically an end user utilizing an end user system accesses process server via network to perform a business or other transaction conducted by business process module at step . The process server may conduct any suitable transaction or activity employing storage and or retrieval of records e.g. content management activities business activities transactions applications for credit policies or services etc. .

Business process module provides a user interface to enable a user to interact and conduct a transaction at step . Basically business process module processes user entered and or other information to determine compliance of the transaction with various parameters or conditions. However this determination may be accomplished by data manager module in the record capture steps described below. If an exception occurs e.g. the transaction does not comply with the parameters or conditions as determined at step the exception is processed at step in accordance with exception handling procedures. For example if the user applies for a service or purchases a product and the business process module determines that the service or product is to be denied e.g. user does not qualify insufficient payment etc. an exception is raised and appropriate procedures for these conditions are followed e.g. denying service aborting the purchase etc. .

An exception based record from the transaction is generated and captured at step . In particular data manager module receives exception based record from process server and determines the appropriate folder and or subfolder within file plan for the record. This may be accomplished based on business or process criteria and or metadata e.g. record type record category etc. associated with the record folder and or sub folder as described above. A file plan module associated with the determined folder and or sub folder stores the exception based record e.g. including the unique and common information within the record in database or object store while a pointer e.g. identifier address etc. to the stored record is placed within the determined folder or sub folder. The business process module further performs post processing or transaction tasks e.g. notifying the user of further consideration for the transaction denial of the service or product etc. at step .

When an exception does not occur e.g. the transaction complies with the parameters or conditions as determined at step the transaction is processed at step in accordance with process procedures. Further the transaction may be examined for compliance with service level agreements SLAs depending upon the particular transaction conducted. If the transaction does not comply with the service level agreements e.g. a user does not agree to the terms etc. as determined at step an exception based record from the transaction is generated and captured at step and post processing is performed at step as described above.

However when the transaction complies with the service level agreement as determined at step a non exception based record is generated and captured at step . Referring to data manager module receives non exception based record from process server at step and determines the appropriate folder and or subfolder within file plan for the record at step . This may be accomplished based on business or process criteria and or metadata e.g. record type record category etc. associated with the record folder and or sub folder as described above. A file plan module associated with the determined folder and or sub folder stores the non exception based record in database or object store . In particular the file plan module extracts the unique information from record object e.g. remaining information in the record other than the common information stored in an associated template record object such as process transaction identification customer reference identifier customer information product or service identifier date time etc. and produces unique record object at step . The unique record object includes a URO identifier generated by the file plan module and the extracted information. Since the template record objects are pre stored and associated with file plan folders file plan modules know the information to extract from a received record and the particular template record object and its associated TRO identifier associated with a folder.

The file plan module stores the generated unique record object in object store and places a pointer to the unique record object in the determined folder at step . Further the file plan module produces or updates the record information object corresponding to template record object associated with the determined folder at step . Specifically the file plan module ascertains the record information object from the RIO identifier within the associated template record object and places the URO identifier of the generated unique record object in the ascertained record information object to link the unique record object with the template record object.

In the case where no record information object exists for template record object associated with the determined folder file plan module may generate record information object . The record information object preferably includes record information e.g. record folder category and type the RIO identifier described above and the TRO identifier of template record object associated with the determined folder and containing the common information. The file plan module places the URO identifier of the generated unique record object within the record information object and may further place the RIO identifier of the record information object in the template record object associated with the determined folder. The identifiers of the unique record object record information object and template record object enable linking of these items.

Once received non exception based record is stored the business process module further performs post processing or transaction tasks e.g. notifying the user of completion of the transaction confirming purchase of the service or product etc. at step .

The system may receive records from various sources for storage in object stores in the manners described above. For example records may be imported from another system e.g. in a batch or stream mode or entered by a user. In these cases record metadata e.g. record category type folder etc. are utilized to determine the status of a record as exception or non exception based. Once a record is characterized as exception or non exception based the record is stored in the corresponding manner described above e.g. unique and common information of exception based records are stored together in object stores while unique and common information of non exception based records are stored separately in object stores .

Business process module may need to retrieve exception and non exception based records during a business or other process. The manner in which these types of records are retrieved according to an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . Initially data manager module may receive a query for records within object stores at step . With respect to exception based records the data manager module retrieves pointers from the file plan folders and or sub folders associated with exception based records at step and identifies records satisfying query conditions at step . Since exception based records contain the unique and common record information the identified exception based records are retrieved from corresponding object stores at step .

For non exception based records the data manager module retrieves pointers from the file plan folders and or sub folders associated with non exception based records and accesses unique record objects to identify those satisfying query conditions at step . Unique record objects may alternatively be stored directly within corresponding file plan folders and or sub folders to enable identification of unique record objects satisfying the query without retrieval of those records from object stores . Since record information objects include the URO identifiers of associated unique record objects as described above the URO identifiers of the unique record objects satisfying the query are utilized to determine the corresponding record information objects at step . Basically the record information objects are searched to identify those record information objects containing the URO identifiers of the unique record objects satisfying the query. The identified record information objects each include a TRO identifier that indicates a corresponding template record object . The identified unique record objects and their corresponding record template objects are subsequently retrieved from object stores at step . The information from unique record objects satisfying the query and their corresponding template record objects are merged or combined at step to reproduce non exception based record objects for display print or other purposes e.g. updating modification etc. .

The present invention embodiments may be implemented as a new system or as part of an existing system e.g. content management workflow etc. . By way of example a series of Application Programming Interfaces API of an existing system may be modified or a new set of APIs or other modules may be created for the new or existing systems to handle activities and record maintenance e.g. converting or defining documents as records adding records updating records freezing and unfreezing records exporting records deleting records record relocation copy file extract creation modification of links etc. of non exception based records according to present invention embodiments. These operations generally perform the same functions as with conventional records however the one or more components e.g. URO RIO and TRO of the non exception based records are manipulated to achieve the desired result. For example deletion of a non exception based record includes deletion of the unique record object and the URO identifier in the record information object . The corresponding template record object and record information object generally remain in the object store until no unique record objects exist that are associated with that template record object and record information object .

Copy or relocation functions may copy or move the unique record record information and or template record objects and further update the URO RIO and or TRO identifiers to maintain the link or associations. Freeze and unfreeze operations may lock and unlock e.g. enable and prevent access to the unique record objects since the corresponding template record objects may be needed for other unlocked unique record objects. Moreover the unique and template record objects may be combined as described above to reproduce the non exception based record for operations where the original record is utilized e.g. exportation extraction etc. . Operations including addition of records e.g. converting or defining records adding etc. may create or manipulate unique record objects record information objects and template record objects in substantially the same manners described above e.g. .

An update operation for a non exception based record includes updating information in the unique record object. For example a business or other process may retrieve a non exception based record in the manner described above for . A user may modify the retrieved information for re submission to the process where the modified record is re evaluated by the process e.g. due to the changed information to determine an exception or non exception based status. An exception based record may be treated as a new record and processed and stored in object store as described above for . The previous record is retained in accordance with a retention procedure associated with the file plan folder containing that record e.g. retaining the record for a predetermined time interval and moving to long term storage or deleting etc. .

When the modified record is determined to be a non exception based record the non exception based record may be treated as a new record and processed and stored in object store as described above for . The previous record is retained in accordance with a retention procedure associated with the file plan folder containing that record e.g. retaining the record for a predetermined time interval and moving to long term storage or deleting etc. .

In addition unique record objects e.g. and record information objects may be stored redundantly in another storage device or object store in order to provide fault tolerance and data recovery. In this case known common information may be reproduced in case of data or system failure and the maintained unique record information may be combined with the reproduced common information to recover non exception based record objects. The redundant storage of unique record objects e.g. and record information objects utilizes reduced storage space since the unique information and not the entire record is redundantly stored.

It will be appreciated that the embodiments described above and illustrated in the drawings represent only a few of the many ways of implementing a method and apparatus for reducing storage requirements of electronic records.

The environment of the present invention embodiments may include any quantity of end user systems server systems and databases or object stores. The end user and server systems employed by the present invention embodiments may be implemented by any quantity of any personal or other type of computer system e.g. IBM compatible Apple Macintosh laptop palm pilot etc. and may include any commercially available operating system e.g. Windows OS 2 Unix Linux etc. and any commercially available or custom software e.g. browser software communications software server software data manager module file plan modules business process module file plan object store etc. . These systems may include any types of monitors and input devices e.g. keyboard mouse voice recognition etc. to enter and or view information.

It is to be understood that the software e.g. data manager module file plan modules etc. for the computer systems of the present invention embodiments e.g. server systems etc. may be implemented in any desired computer language and could be developed by one of ordinary skill in the computer arts based on the functional descriptions contained in the specification and flow charts illustrated in the drawings. Further any references herein of software performing various functions generally refer to computer systems or processors performing those functions under software control. The computer systems of the present invention embodiments may alternatively be implemented by any type of hardware and or other processing circuitry. The various functions of the computer systems may be distributed in any manner among any quantity of software modules or units processing or computer systems and or circuitry where the computer or processing systems may be disposed locally or remotely of each other and communicate via any suitable communications medium e.g. LAN WAN Intranet Internet hardwire modem connection wireless etc. . For example the functions of the present invention embodiments may be distributed in any manner among the end user and server systems. The software and or algorithms described above and illustrated in the flow charts may be modified in any manner that accomplishes the functions described herein. In addition the functions in the flow charts or description may be performed in any order that accomplishes a desired operation.

The software of the present invention embodiments may be available on a recordable medium e.g. magnetic or optical mediums magneto optic mediums floppy diskettes CD ROM DVD memory devices etc. for use on stand alone systems or systems connected by a network or other communications medium and or may be downloaded e.g. in the form of carrier waves packets etc. to systems via a network or other communications medium.

The communication network may be implemented by any quantity of any type of communications network e.g. LAN WAN Internet Intranet VPN etc. . The computer systems of the present invention embodiments e.g. end user systems server systems etc. may include any conventional or other communications devices to communicate over the network via any conventional or other protocols. The computer systems e.g. end user system server system etc. may utilize any type of connection e.g. wired wireless etc. for access to the network.

The databases and object stores may be implemented by any conventional or other databases object stores or storage structures e.g. files databases data structures etc. . The databases may be remote from or local to each other the end user systems and or the server systems. The object stores may store exception based and non exception based records either individually or in any combinations. Any desired criteria parameters and or information may be utilized to determine the status of a process transaction instance and or record as exception or non exception based depending upon the particular application e.g. business parameters service level agreements transaction parameters etc. . The file plan modules may be invoked based on any suitable conditions e.g. placement of a record within a file plan folder etc. . The file plan may be arranged in any fashion e.g. directory list etc. and include any quantity of tiers where any portion may be associated with a particular manner of storage. The manner of storage for each file plan portion may be indicated in any fashion e.g. execution of scripts and or modules indicated by text or other types of files etc. . The pointers may include any suitable identifiers e.g. addresses locations etc. to identify the location of records or unique record objects.

The records handled by the present invention embodiments may be of any quantity size or type and may include any quantity of information in any suitable forms e.g. text images audio graphics video multimedia documents etc. . The template record object record information object and unique record object may include any quantity of any information e.g. common unique customer information transaction information metadata etc. in any suitable forms e.g. text images graphics audio video multimedia etc. and arranged in any fashion. These record objects may be implemented by any quantity of suitable data structures e.g. records arrays linked lists etc. . The TRO RIO and URO identifiers may include any quantity of any desired characters or symbols and may be generated in any fashion e.g. calculations sequential ordering concatenation of various attributes etc. .

The unique record objects may be stored within an object store or other storage and or within the file plan folders and or sub folders. Any quantity of unique record objects may be utilized to store unique information of one or more records. The record information objects may be stored in any suitable locations e.g. within an object store or other storage etc. . Any quantity of record information objects may be utilized for one or more template record objects. Alternatively the unique record objects may include direct links to the corresponding template record objects e.g. the system may be utilized without the record information objects .

The template record objects may be stored in any suitable locations e.g. within an object store or other storage etc. . Any quantity of template record objects may be utilized to store common information of one or more records. The unique record record information and or template record objects may be linked or associated via any conventional or other techniques in any fashion e.g. pointers identifiers storage locations etc. . The various identifiers e.g. URO TRO RIO may be stored in one or more of these objects to accomplish the linking or association. The information to store within the unique record objects and template record objects may be determined in any fashion where each unique and template record object associated with a record may include any portions of unique and or common record information. The information or metadata may include any desired characteristics or attributes e.g. categories types etc. and be stored in any of the record objects e.g. URO RIO TRO or other storage.

Any of the record objects e.g. URO RIO TRO with unique information may be stored in one or more other storage devices preferably remote from the system in order to recover data in case of data loss. The storage devices may be implemented by any conventional or other storage devices e.g. databases memories files CD DVD computer systems etc. . The common information may be reproduced since this information is generic and known and combined with the redundantly stored unique information to reproduce the records.

The various record operations may be selectively performed where the template record unique record and or record information objects may be manipulated in any fashion. The updating operation for exception and non exception based records may alternatively be performed by overwriting the previous record version e.g. overwriting modified portions of an exception based record overwriting a unique record object of a non exception based record etc. .

The present invention embodiments may employ any quantity of user interface screens or other user interfaces where the screens may include any information arranged in any fashion. The screens may include any quantity of any types of input or actuation mechanisms e.g. buttons icons fields boxes links etc. disposed at any locations to enter display information and initiate desired actions.

The present invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode data structures APIs etc.

Furthermore the present invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system for present invention embodiments and suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

It is to be understood that the present invention embodiments are not limited to the applications disclosed herein but may be utilized for any suitable transaction or process e.g. business content or data management workflow etc. . Further the present invention embodiments may store records in the manners described above based on any status or characterization of the records e.g. exception and non exception based etc. determined from any desired conditions parameters and or criteria where the status may be indicated by any suitable indicator within or associated with the record e.g. metadata flag or status indicator etc. . The criteria may enable all records to be characterized the same and be processed in the same manner e.g. all records characterized and processed as non exception based etc. . Moreover exception based records may be stored in the manner of non exception based records where exception information may be stored in the unique record object.

From the foregoing description it will be appreciated that the invention makes available a novel method and apparatus for reducing storage requirements of electronic records wherein data storage requirements are reduced for electronic records satisfying pre defined business parameters and or process criteria by storing unique record information separately from common record information.

Having described preferred embodiments of a new and improved method and apparatus for reducing storage requirements of electronic records it is believed that other modifications variations and changes will be suggested to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings set forth herein. It is therefore to be understood that all such variations modifications and changes are believed to fall within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

