---

title: System and method for determining sets of online advertisement treatments using confidences
abstract: A system for experimentation includes an experiment engine which can define an experiment relating to various treatments for a set of content elements. The experiment engine conducts the experiment by delivering treatments to control groups over the network. The selection of the treatments to deliver is optimized to provide treatments having a greater likelihood of satisfying an objective of the experiment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002729&OS=09002729&RS=09002729
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 09002729
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20081021
---
Experimentation is useful for testing new or different ideas and can lead to better products methods and techniques. Experimentation may involve providing a number of alternate ideas or approaches to various test subjects and observing the results. For example experiments can be set up for testing various structures or arrangements for content e.g. data or information which can be presented to a person in some form or fashion . To maximize the benefit of experimentation it is desirable to have a suitable population of test subjects. In general the greater the number of alternate ideas the greater the number of test subjects required in order to provide or obtain accurate test results for an experiment. As the number of test subjects needed for obtaining accurate results grows and as the number of alternating ideas grows administering the experiment becomes a difficult time consuming and expensive task. As a result experimentation which can yield significant incite regarding how to achieve desired objectives such as maximizing product sales can become unaffordable.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the embodiments are described by referring mainly to examples thereof. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In some instances well known methods and structures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the embodiments.

According to an embodiment a system for experimentation includes a communication management system and a content system which can define an experiment relating to various treatments for a set of content elements and administer the experiment over a data network. A treatment is a set of content elements. Examples of content elements also referred to as elemental components include a text file an image file an audio file a video file etc. These elemental components may be combined and or formatted in a number of different ways or structures to create treatments to deliver to control groups for an experiment. Each separate combination and or formatting of content elements can constitutes a treatment. In one example a treatment can be a particular implementation of a web page at a given moment. More specifically at the given instance of time the web page treatment may contain particular text icons images and or video located at particular positions on the screen particular visual background shading or color particular borders for dividing up the screen particular audio music or speech and the like.

The system for experimentation is configured to provide a systematic experimentation of treatments. The experiment is performed to determine the optimal form of the content elements to display in order to satisfy one or more objectives. In one example the content elements are for an advertisement to be presented on web pages over the Internet and the objective is to maximize the number of users that click on the advertisement for more information about the product or service being advertised. The system for experimentation creates treatments which represent different forms of the advertisement each form having at least one different attribute or content element e.g. banner ad text ad moving pop up window variations in colors etc. . For the experiment the system delivers the treatments to one or more control groups. The control groups are presented with the delivered treatments and the control groups behavior is captured. The captured behavior may include the control groups interactions with the delivered treatments. Optimal treatments are identified for example based on the behavior of the control groups. The optimal treatments are treatments estimated to have the greatest ability to achieve a desired objective.

According to an embodiment during the experiment the testing of treatments is optimized to minimize the proportion of treatments delivered that are determined to be sub optimal. A sub optimal treatment is estimated to have a low ability to achieve a desired objective relative to other treatments. The system allows the frequency with which treatments delivered to the control groups to vary according to a prediction model. The treatments that are delivered are varied according to confidences determined using the model. A weighting factor is applied based on the determined confidences of delivered treatments and the weighting factor is used to select new treatments to deliver and to determine the new proportion by which treatments will be delivered to the control groups.

This optimizing of treatments ultimately can reduce the time it takes to identify a combination of content elements that is determined to be most optimal based on one or more objectives while additionally minimizing the delivery of sub optimal content throughout the experimental process thereby reducing the time of experimentation. This reduction in time can translate into significant cost savings and reduced time to market for delivering the content in the production environment.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 748 entitled Automated On Line Experimentation to Measure Users Behavior to Treatment for a Set of Content Elements which is assigned to the assignee of the present application is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The system and methods of experimentation according to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be used in the system described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 748.

It is contemplated that systems and may be maintained managed and or operated by a provider of content to users . Such content provider can be an entity which operates or maintains a portal or any other website through which content can be delivered. For example content provider can be on line retailer of merchandise an on line news service and the like. Each user may visit the website operated by content provider for example to view information and perhaps to complete a commercial transaction. Users can include individuals organizations or their agents which can be human or virtual.

Content system serves as a repository for content . Content system can be implemented at least in part with any system suitable for storing content. For example content system may include a SPECTRA server system from Allaire Corporation or a STORY server system from Vignette Corporation. In general content can be any data or information that is presentable visually audibly or otherwise to users . Thus content can include written text images graphics animation video music voice and the like or any combination thereof. For example if content provider is a on line retailer of merchandise content may include images of various goods offered by the retailer textual descriptions and price quotes for each good detailed information about on line ordering graphics or animation to capture a user s attention etc. Similarly if content provider is a web portal content may include textual listings or directories for various areas of interest icons interactive or non interactive images of products hyperlinks to other websites banner advertisements etc. If content provider is an on line news service content may include textual information for various news stories photographs and or illustrations to accompany at least some of the stories video and or audio clips for late breaking stories listings for weather reports in various geographic areas maps for these geographic areas etc. Content from content system may be provided for any of a variety of purposes or applications such as for example product development public relations customer service advertising electronic commerce and the like.

Content which can be stored in digital form may be broken down or reduced to a set of elemental components. An elemental component can be for example a text file an image file an audio file a video file etc. These elemental components may be combined and or formatted in a number of different ways or structures for presenting content to users .

Each separate combination and or formatting of content constitutes a content structure or treatment. A content structure can be for example a particular implementation of a web page at a given moment. More specifically at the given instance of time the web page may contain particular text icons images and or video located at particular positions on the screen particular visual background shading or color particular borders for dividing up the screen particular audio music or speech and the like.

The way content is structured may affect or impact a user s behavior or reaction to the content. For example a user may react positively to a web page having a neutral background color e.g. gray and negatively to a web page having a bolder background color e.g. fuchsia . A user s reaction may be tied to a particular desired objective or outcome. An outcome generally can relate to any behavior by a user at a website that content provider would like to influence or manage. This behavior can include click throughs of the website by a user time spent by the user on requests for information number and nature of pages viewed by the user length of time spent at the website by the user repeat sessions purchases of goods services offered on the websites submission of information registration login personalization reading or other related behaviors. For example for an on line retailer of merchandise one desired objective outcome can be the completion of a transaction or sale. For a web portal a desired objective outcome can be increased stickiness i.e. the amount of time that a user spends at the website and the number of repeat visits to the website . As such structured content may be meaningful in the context of its relationship to a desired objective outcome.

Because various objectives outcomes may be important to content provider communication management system is provided to manage the content and structures for same which is ultimately delivered or presented to users thereby influencing the behavior of users in such a way as to achieve the desired objectives outcomes. Communication management system supplements the functionality of the existing content system as described herein. In one embodiment communication management system can be implemented as a software based or software driven product which can be bundled or integrated with an existing content system of content provider . Communication management system enhances any application of structured content by identifying the linkage or connection between content and desired objectives and providing feedback in relation to what structured content should be delivered to users in the future.

To accomplish this communication management system may cooperate with content system to break down any given content to its elemental components create one or more content structures or treatments for presenting the content to users design experiments to test the behavior or reaction of users to each treatment deliver the treatments over a suitable data network to one or more users in controlled experiments collect information or data on the outcomes objectives for each experiment generate predictive models using the collected information and modify or customize the structure of content using the predictive models.

To optimize the effectiveness of the structured content content provider determines its objectives for the associated portal or website in relation to the behavior of users and decides what elements of the communication are relevant or have potential to influence that behavior. For example content provider may want to optimize its communication to achieve better match between relevant content and user preferences in order to increase return visits of users in general to the portal or website. Content system and communication management system facilitate the identification and specification of the relevant elemental components the specification of various alternative structures for content e.g. messages and means of communication and assign control variables and values to 25 these structures for implementation. As such content system and communication management system may implement a systematic approach for the design and development of interactive communication to optimize enhance or otherwise improve for example product development public relations customer service advertising effectiveness electronic commerce or any other application which can benefit from real time customization of content . Content system and communication management system may thus collectively implement a system for managing the delivery of content to users .

Content system and communication management system may be integrated with or connected to a suitable data network or digital system i.e. a system augmented by digital services. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements such connection or coupling can be physical or logical. In general a data network or digital system can provide or support an interactive channel by which users may interact with content system and communication management system . Examples of such data networks or digital systems include telephone call centers cellular networks pager networks automated teller machine ATM networks instant messaging systems local area networks so LANs wide area networks MAW Intranets Extranets interactive television services or as depicted Internet .

Internet is an interconnection of computer clients and servers located throughout the world and exchanging information according to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Internetwork Packet eXchange Sequence Packet eXchange IPX SPX AppleTalk or other suitable protocol. Internet supports the distributed application known as the World Wide Web. Web servers maintain websites each comprising one or more web pages at which information is made available for viewing. Each website or web page can be identified by a respective uniform resource locator URL and may be supported by documents formatted in any suitable language such as for example hypertext markup language HTML extended markup language XML or standard generalized markup language SGML . Clients may locally execute a web browser program. A web browser is a computer program that allows the exchange of information with the World Wide Web. Any of a variety of web browsers are available such as NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR from Netscape Communications Corp. INTERNET EXPLORER from Microsoft Corporation and others that allow convenient access and s navigation of the Internet . Information may be communicated from a web server to a client using a suitable protocol such as for example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP or File Transfer Protocol FTP . Internet allows interactive communication between users and the content and communication management systems and .

In one embodiment content system and communication management system enable content provider to automatically customized content delivered to users via a data network such as the Internet . Due to the widespread popularity of the Internet content system and communication management system have the capability to reach a relatively large number of users thereby allowing significant segmentation of users and experimentation in a large pool. The remainder of this description focuses primarily on a system and method in the context of the Internet but it should be understood that the present invention is broadly applicable to any data network which is capable of reaching or connecting a relatively large number of users to provide a wide cross section of users. Such data network can be for example WebTV InteractiveTV WAP mobile services or any other interactive channel.

Content system and communication management system can provide a completely automated solution by dynamically segmenting users automatically generating personalization rules and delivering web pages offers for products services or other interactive communication to achieve desired objectives. In other words content system and communication management system can determine what matters to users and then use this information to optimize interactive communications to achieve specific outcomes objectives such as for example increasing sales and profits improving electronic marketing effectiveness and powering specific business intelligence applications.

In content system content store functions to store content which may be delivered and presented to various users via for example the Internet . This content may include for example images and or descriptions of various goods or services which are being offered for sale price quotes for each good or service detailed information about on line ordering listings for various areas of interest links to one or more websites banner advertisements etc. All or a portion of this content can be maintained in digital form. Content store may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment content store may comprise a relational database.

User interface is connected to content store . User interface generally functions to provide or support an interface between content system and one or more users each using a suitable client computer connected to Internet . User interface may receive requests for content from the users . An exemplary request can be a request for a web page displaying a particular line of products and may specify a particular identifier for the web page such as for example a uniform resource locator URL . Furthermore the web page request can be related to a user s action of clicking on a particular hyperlink on a web page. In response to such requests user interface delivers or presents content . The interconnectivity of components of user interface may be supported with is suitable communication hubs routers or otherwise as may be used in the underlying architecture of the data network e.g. Internet responsible for delivery of content.

Allocator module which is connected to content store may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. Allocator module generally functions to allocate i.e. cause to be delivered content to various users . Allocation can be done for example based on the following information available about users and commands from other elements or modules within content system or communication management system which may place any given user in an experiment or deliver content according to predictions and models.

As such allocator module may be responsive to requests for content from users . For each request allocator module may allocate a content structure or treatment for purposes of experimentation or based on a prediction of what will achieve a desired outcome objective. To accomplish this allocator module may apply situation specific rules such as experiment rules and prediction rules described herein . Also allocator module may sample all traffic at the website or portal in order for example to determine which users will be assigned to receive controlled communication i.e. specific content . Thus allocator module provides guidance to content system on what content to display on a user by user basis. Allocator module is coupled to observation module in communication management system and may store observation data therein on behalf of the content system .

Allocator module also supports or provides an interface between communication management system and content system . As such allocator module may include a suitable application programming interface API which can interact and integrate with Web server software e.g. available from NETSCAPE APACHE or JAVA SERVLET and management application software e.g. VIGNETTE SPECTRA or BROAD VISION .

The functionality of allocator module can be performed by any suitable processor such as a main frame file server workstation or other suitable data processing facility running appropriate software and operating under the control of any suitable operating system such as MS DOS MacINTOSH OS WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 OS 2 UNIX XENIX GEOS and the like.

Communication management system is in communication with content system . Referring to communication management system experiment engine is coupled to content store and allocator module both in content system . Experiment engine may receive definitions for various experiments and content . Experiment engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. Experiment engine generally functions to support the creation and execution of one or more experiments to test the behavior or reaction of users to particular content and or the particular way in which the content is formatted i.e. treatments . For each experiment experiment engine may generate a set of rules which dictate how treatments are allocated during the course of the experiment. The experiments created and executed by experiment engine may include for example full factorial experiments and designed fractions of full factorial experiments also referred to as simply designed experiments .

In a full factorial experiment for a given set of content elements every possible combination of content elements is considered. Each content element may constitute a factor to be considered and analyzed. A full factorial experiment allows estimation of the effect of each factor in isolation. That is the results from a full factorial experiment include all information about the main effect that each content element has on the observed outcome independent of every other content element. A full factorial experiment also estimates the effect of each and every interaction between all possible combinations of factors.

For example consider a case in which there are two types of content elements a banner advertisement and a text message which can be displayed below the banner advertisement. Each content element may have two variations. For banner advertisement the variations can be static and moving. For messages the variations can be click here now and save 20 . Thus there are four possible combinations that can be viewed 1 static banner advertisement with a click message 2 static banner advertisement with a save message 3 moving banner advertisement with a click message and 4 moving banner advertisement with a save message. The main effects for each element i.e. static moving click and save as well as the interaction effects for all possible combinations of the same can be observed. Thus the entire space of all possible effects can be estimated. Because a full factorial experiment considers all possible alternatives for content structure it supports a very thorough analysis of observed outcomes.

As the number of variables in an experiment are increased linearly however the number of combinations of content elements increases exponentially. That is when another content element or variation is added to a given experiment the number of combinations for the experiment can increase significantly. For example for four content elements each having three variations eighty one combinations are possible. For five content elements each having four variations the number of possible combinations is 1024. In view of this a full factorial experiment can produce more combinations than reasonable for purposes of experimentation i.e. the time required to satisfy the sampling requirements may be unacceptably long given the rate of hits to a website.

Designed experiments reduce the number of combinations required for experimentation relative to full factorial experiments while still allowing measurement and estimation of the effects that are of interest. Designed experiments typically focus on a relatively small group of effects of particular interest while controlling for all other effects. Designed experiments use an experimental design to control specific events and the conditions under which those events occur thus allowing the effect of such events in relation to some observed outcome to be explicitly measured and estimated. In other words a designed experiment is a systematic way to vary one or more variables which can be controlled e.g. background color of an advertisement screen placement of advertisement size of advertisement and investigate the effects such variances have on one or more outcomes of interest. Designed experiments may consider only the main effects of the variables. Accordingly designed experiments reduce the information involved in an experiment e.g. the number of combinations thus offering a potentially vast reduction in sampling requirements e.g. the minimum number of users required to participate in the experiment .

For example for five elements each having four variations if it is assumed that there are no important interaction effects experiment engine may create a designed experiment that will allow measurement and estimation of all the main effects i.e. those that do not involve interactions with only sixteen combinations rather than the 1024 combinations required for a full factorial experiment.

Experiment engine may generate designed experiments in a number of ways. For example experiment engine may include or incorporate various look up tables such as for example tables published by the U.S. National Bureau of Standards. In addition to tables designed experiments can be generated using algorithms which when run will create the appropriate tables meeting the criteria for which the algorithm is designed. These tables and algorithms can be used to identify appropriate constraints upon behavioral models described herein . Furthermore designed experiments can be created by random selection for variable values or via programmed search algorithms through the full factorial space.

Designed experiments may be described using a number of important criteria. For example designs may be described by the specific effects they allow the number of factors and factor levels included and whether or not there are the same number of levels in each factor and the amount of information produced in relation to the objective outcome. Experiment engine may employ any or all of these methods to find or produce the best designs to use for a particular application.

Designed experiments allow communication management system to make inferences about some of the variables that drive the choices of users . These designed experiments may implement or support an understanding of random utility theory RUT . Random utility theory postulates that the true value to a user of some item e.g. a banner advertisement or a web page cannot be observed because it is a mental quality in the user s mind. That is the thought process by which a user arrives at a particular decision cannot always be captured or observed. In view of this designed experiments allow communication management system to make inferences about some of the variables that drive user choices based upon what users actually do not what they think or express.

In one embodiment experiment engine provides functionality for the following a full factorial experiments which consider all possible combinations b designed experiments which consider the minimum possible combinations main effects only and c designed experiments that estimate all two variable interactions or selected two variable interactions.

Model engine is in communication with experiment engine and may obtain the definition of various experiments therefrom. Model engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. The data produced from each experiment specifies outcomes relevant to the objectives set by content provider . Once the experiments are completed this data may transferred to model engine to identify the degree to which the content elements influence the behavior of users . That is model engine uses the results or data collected during the various experiments to create one or more behavioral models of human decisions and choices.

In general a model attempts to predict what users may do in the future based on observations made of past behavior from users with similar characteristics. A behavioral model may comprise a sophisticated continuous and discrete multivariate statistical model which can be used to determine what aspects of a content structure or treatment influence the probability of achieving a particular outcome. All actions that users take in an interactive environment potentially can be observed and modeled using forms of choice models based on random utility theory. That is the observed behavioral characteristics of users maybe embedded in choice models resulting from designed experiments. The models can model the behavior of users in terms of how the users respond to different stimuli e.g. treatments . Model engine performs this analysis and suggests which treatments to present to users in the future in order to meet the desired objectives.

A behavioral model can be for example a statistical abstraction of an unknown decision making process used by a user to make particular decision such as for example whether to click on a particular banner advertisement whether to purchase a particular product being offered etc. Thus although a user s decision making process cannot be observed behavioral modeling attempts to approximate these processes statistically using random utility theory 3Q developed and refined by econometricians and psychometricians. The unexplained component of a user s choice may be considered to be the deviation of that user from what a behavioral model predicts. This is stochastic is the sense that there is an element of user behavior that cannot be explained.

The models generated by model engine may thus model and predict the probability that a randomly selected user from some sample or segment will perform a particular action or combination of actions when faced with a number of possible actions. As such the behavioral models may consider user choices. These choice models do not predict the exact choice that will be made by a user but rather the probability that a any given user will choose a particular action. In particular choice models describe how the probability of users choices or decisions i.e. their behavior will vary according to one or more elements that were manipulated in a respective experiment or according to users profiles. Choice models thus consider variables that describe the options for choices e.g. prices discount levels colors of products offered at a website and the variables that describe users e.g. time of day day of week Internet service provider ISP operating system for an application . Inclusion of variables that describe users allow choice models to be used to optimize content offers etc. for particular user profiles. For example once model generator has generated a model that predicts how choice probabilities of users vary with background color and page placement as well as time of day day of week and ISP then prediction engine and model engine can predict which color and placement location should be provided or displayed to any given user to optimize an objective e.g. to maximize click rates Thus the model may be used to determine what set of content is most suitable for achieving a desired outcome.

In one example for a choice model the unexplained component of user decision making processes is distributed according to a Gumbel distribution. The deviations of each choice from that distribution sum to zero and each deviation is independent and has the same variance. This produces a model known as a multinomial logit MNL model. For a situation with multiple choices the MNL model can be expressed as follows 

In the above equation Vand Vare the values of the ith and jth choice options actions choices exp is the exponential operator i.e. eV and C is the set of possible actions or choices. In application of the MNL model the V s are estimated as linear in the parameters functions of the variables of interest. That is the V s are expressed as multiple regression like functions of some predictor variables e.g. color of an advertisement placement of an advertisement time of day for observed behavior user s ISP the interaction of advertisement color and ISP etc. . Parameters are estimated for each variable from the data obtained as the outcome of experimentation. The parameters then are used in the MNL model to predict the probability that a particular user profile will choose a particular choice option action . Alternatively the results of the model are used to determine what particular combination of variables i.e. treatment to show to a user with a particular profile such as for example which combination of advertisement color and placement should be displayed to a user with AOL as an ISP and who interacts with the website between 2 00 a.m. and 3 00 a.m. on a Tuesday.

Model engine may implement techniques for choice modeling Bayesian modeling or other useful modeling for the choices of users e.g. visitors to a website as revealed for example in their click patterns responses to questions session times purchases registrations return visits option selections etc. In one embodiment the modeling may implement techniques of Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo estimation procedures. Model engine may use a structure referred to as a model instruction which allows the model engine to extract that part of the experiment data required for modeling from observation module .

Prediction engine is in communication with model engine and allocator module . Prediction engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. From the experimentation and modeling prediction engine functions to generate or create one or more predictions. A prediction can be a simple description of a model which is used to deliver content to users in a way which is most effective to achieve one or more desired outcomes objectives. For example a prediction may predict that a user with certain characteristics will for a particular website click through to key web pages buy merchandise at the website visit between the hours of 9 00 p.m. and midnight or any other strategic objective of interest.

In one implementation prediction engine may identify from a model that set of content elements which is predicted to be most likely to cause any given user who visits the website to behave consistently with the model s objective i.e. consistent with a particular goal or objective of the content provider . In another implementation prediction engine may allow content provider to make such an identification.

Prediction engine may generate predictive covariates which can be used when allocating content to users in response to requests for the same. That is prediction engine may generate prediction rules for targeting specific content to certain kinds of users thus providing personalization in the delivery of content . The prediction rules can be a set of rules which match different types or classes of users to specific content . Accordingly prediction engine converts a model which provides an abstract description of observed behavior into a simple set of rules that attempts to optimize desired behavior. The prediction rules are forwarded to allocator module for application in the delivery of content to users .

The functionality of each of experiment engine model engine and prediction engine can be performed by any suitable processor such as a main frame file server workstation or other suitable data processing facility running appropriate software and operating under the control of any suitable operating system such as MS DOS MacINTOSH OS WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 OS 2 UNIX XENIX GEOS and the like.

Observation module communicates with allocator module in content system experiment engine and model engine . Observation module generally functions to maintain or store observation data. Observation data can be information or data relating to the observed behavior of users which visit the website of content provider . The observation data can be collected for each experiment conducted by communication management system and thus can include information for the experimental conditions and the observed outcomes. Furthermore observation data stored in observation module can include data for a number of variables such as experiment variables covariates and dependent variables. Experiment variables may relate to or represent content itself. For example experiment variables may relate to or specify the content treatments for an experiment and a time period for experimentation. Experiment variables can be controlled and may be considered independent variables. Dependent variables relate to or represent outcomes. For example dependent variables may relate to the observed behavior of users prior or subsequent to a treatment allocation. Dependent variables will typically be components of the goal function which is to he optimized. As an illustrative example dependent variables may relate to the allocation of treatments and the successes or failures for such allocation. An instance of a treatment allocation is deemed to be a success if a user reacts in a desired manner to the treatment an instance of a treatment allocation is deemed to be a failure if a user does not react in a desired manner to the treatment. Covariates are variables which relate to or represent users . For example covariates may relate to characteristics of an end user e.g. particular computer and web browser . Further covariates may relate to characteristics of usage e.g. buttons clicked navigation options selected information submitted purchases made etc. . Observation data may also include information available from the data log or customer database of a website. With this data and information communication management system may segment users into discrete groups or specify a distribution of users wherein each grouping or distribution is characterized by a particular set of behavioral outcomes.

Observation module may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAIVI disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment observation module may comprise a relational database.

Content provider interface can be in communication with content store in content system experiment engine and observation module . Content provider interface receives model results and initiates analysis evaluation selection calibration and basic reports. Content provider interface generally supports an interface between communication management system and a human user at content provider such as an information services manager. Content provider interface allows the manager user to ask questions record and test scenarios and generate or obtain reports to quantify results.

For example content provider interface allows a manager user to assist in the set up and management of the processes for experimentation modeling and prediction performed by communication management system . Content provider interface may receive new content for input into content store and definitions for forwarding to experiment engine . In one embodiment content provider interface can be used to define the conditions and space for various experiments the attributes and levels that will be manipulated individual data tracked and to initiate the generation or creation of various experimental designs. Furthermore content provider interface may allow the manager user to view and analyze data both in raw form straight from the observation module and also in model form from model engine .

The functionality of content provider interface can be performed by one or more suitable input devices such as a key pad touch screen input port pointing device e.g. mouse microphone and or other device that can accept information and one or more suitable output devices such as a computer display output port speaker or other device for conveying information including digital data visual information or audio information. In one embodiment content provider interface may comprise or be operable to display at least one graphical user interface GUI having a number of interactive devices such as buttons windows pull down menus and the like to facilitate the entry viewing and or retrieval of information.

Scripting scheduling engine may be in communication with allocator module experiment engine model engine prediction engine and content provider interface . Scripting scheduling engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. Scripting scheduling engine generally functions to manage the overall operation of communication management system and content system .

Scripting scheduling engine provides or supports the generation of scripts which coordinate the behavior activity and or interaction of allocator module experiment engine model engine predictor engine and observation module . Accordingly scripting scheduling engine may automate the entire process of experimentation modeling and prediction described herein. Essentially each script may direct one or more elements in content system or communication system to perform a particular action or set of actions.

For example scripting scheduling engine supports the set up of the various experiments which may be conducted to gauge the behavior or reaction of users . For each experiment scripting scheduling engine may generate or supply definitions. These definitions can be supplied to allocator module for performing experiments. In addition scripting scheduling engine may monitor for the completion of an experiment and subsequently direct model engine to build or generate a model from the experimental data. Scripting scheduling engine may generate or supply scripting for converting the results of such experiments into models and ultimately predictions which are designed to achieve specific outcomes objectives. Scripting scheduling engine may deliver instructions to model engine on how to build a model. These instructions may specify data locations within observation module and names for each of a number of variables e.g. experiment variables covariates and dependent variables translations in encoding for easier modeling conversions of data from continuous to discrete and model form and any other parameters. Scripting scheduling engine may create a time related interpretation for the state of the model for use by allocator module in dealing with user requests for content . Furthermore scripting scheduling engine may provide instructions or commands to allocator module for delivering content either for experimentation or pursuant to models predictions. Each script may include basic error handling procedures.

The functionality of scripting scheduling engine can be performed by any suitable processor which can be the same or separate from the processor s for experiment engine model engine and prediction engine .

In operation generally speaking content provider interface may receive experimental definitions from a content provider . In one embodiment for example a manager user at content provider inputs data relating to past website traffic or samples from current website traffic in order to determine how to set up and schedule an experiment. Using the experimental definitions experiment engine designs one or more experiments for a particular set of content. Each experiment may involve a plurality of content structures or treatments for the content. One of the treatments serves as a control treatment while the remaining treatments serve as experimental treatments. For each experiment experiment engine may generate a separate set of experiment rules which dictate how the treatments are delivered during experimentation. These experiment rules are forwarded to allocator module .

Allocator module allocates the different treatments to various users in response to requests for content from the same. This allocation is done in accordance with the rules for experiments designed by experiment engine . During experimentation communication management system observes the behavior of the users to each treatment and collects or stores data on these observations in observation module . This includes data for experiment variables covariates and independent variables.

Using the observation data model engine generates one or more models for each experiment conducted. These models may capture the relationship between the incidence of the objective behaviors by users and a set of controlled content variables and details about the users visits.

From the experimentation and modeling communication management system may modify or customize the treatments of content which are delivered to users . In particular prediction engine generates one or more predictions which are used to deliver content to users in a way which is most effective to achieve one or more desired outcomes objectives. In one embodiment prediction engine automatically searches the results of experimentation and modeling for the optimal content structure or treatment and recommends that for delivery to users . In an alternative embodiment prediction engine allows a human user e.g. information systems manager at content provider to specify a plurality of optimal content structures or treatments for delivery to users . Prediction engine generates a set of prediction rules which can be forwarded to allocator module in content system .

Each of the processes of experimenting modeling and predicting may be repeated. By continuously experimenting with content that will be delivered to users content system and communication management system systematically isolate the effects of different attributes of the communication on desired outcomes objectives. By modeling segments or individual users based on this continuous experimentation as described herein content system and communication management system can automatically and accurately generate and define rules for presenting custom communication to achieve or increase the desired outcomes objectives.

As such content system and communication management system implement a systematic approach for the design and development of interactive communication to optimize enhance or otherwise improve product development public relations customer service advertising effectiveness electronic commerce or any other application which can benefit from real time mass customization of content .

Experiment manager object generally functions to control or manage the execution of various experiments. Experiment manager object allows the set up of designed experiments. For example experiment manager object supports the specification of one or more experiment variables which can be investigated or considered as to their effects on one or more outcomes objectives of interest. Such experiment variables can be for example background color location on a web page or special discount. Furthermore for each experiment variable experiment manager object supports the specification of one or more levels. For example for an experiment variable of background color levels can include blue pink yellow and green. For an experiment variable of location on a web page levels can include top center right bottom lower left and middle right. For an experiment variable of special so discount levels can include 10 off 15 off 20 off 25 off 30 off 35 off 40 off and so on. From the above it can be seen that the experiment variables can be inherently discrete e.g. background color or inherently continuous e.g. special discount . In one embodiment the variables and associated levels can be selected by a manager user.

Once experiment variables and levels have been selected experiment manager object can specify different combinations or values of content . Experiment manager object may generate the content structures or treatments to be delivered for each experiment and determine the conditions for delivery e.g. to whom and when . To accomplish this experiment manager object may use any or all of the experiment engine functionality described herein e.g. tables search algorithms etc. . Across these treatments the levels for each experiment variable are systematically varied.

From the set of all possible content structures or treatments for a given set of content a subset may be selected for experimentation. More specifically experiment manager object may select from the set of all possible treatments a sample of those in a particular way to optimally address the 5 desired objectives or outcomes. This allows communication management system to investigate a larger number of and more complicated content issues than otherwise possible while also insuring that the system and therefore the manager user will know which element of content had what effect on user behavior and therefore what treatment is optimal for future delivery to site visitors. Each treatment of the selected subset may be considered to be a control content structure. Control implies that the different levels for experiment variables in the treatments are under the control of or can be specified by communication management system or the manager user.

Experiment manager object may also define or implement statistical sampling procedures. These statistical sampling procedures are used to select from all users visiting the website maintained by content provider a number who will receive the control content structures or treatments. This selection can be accomplished using a combination of user profiling e.g. segmentation which may include a segment comprising all users and or statistically valid random selection techniques. In one embodiment experiment manager object may allow a manager user at content provider to specify either implicitly or explicitly a particular target population of users to receive the control treatments. For example experiment manager object may allowing a manager user to select a fraction of the total website traffic and then design and implement an experiment that can be applied to a this fraction of the total traffic. With the sampling procedures available from experiment manager object the manager user may set quotas for particular samples or for sampling from particular populations of users wherein each population may have some characteristics in common e.g. ISP time of use etc. .

Experiment manager object may also specify when and for how long each experiment will be run for example based on input from a manager user.

Experiment manager object may keep track of the experiments under way at a given time and the users participating in each experiment. Experiment manager object may also via scripting scheduling engine direct other engines or elements in communication management system or content system to collect data and information about each experiment as it is being conducted. For example experiment manager object may direct allocator module to collect observation data for the various experiments and to store this data in observation module . Thus it is possible to determine what experiments have been done what experiments are underway and what parts of the experimental space remain for experimentation. Furthermore for each experiment experiment manager object may generate a set of rules which direct allocator module on how treatments should be allocated during the course of the experiment.

In one embodiment experiment manager object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

Experiment data store is in communication with experiment manager object . Experiment data store functions to store experiment data . Experiment data generally comprises data and information relating to the experiments created and executed by experiment engine . This includes data information for both past historical experiments and experiments currently in progress. For each experiment experiment data may specify for example the definitions and parameters defining the experiment the content which is used during the experiment the variables specified for the experiment the levels for each experiment variable the content structures or treatments considered during the experiment the objective behavior being tracked for each experiment the experiment rules for each experiment and a definition or recognition pattern for the users who are allocated to participate in the experiment.

Experiment data may also specify or include data used to set up the experiments. In one embodiment this data may include one or more tables. Each table can be associated with a respective experimental design. These tables can be filled in with data and information entered for example by experiment manager object optionally cooperating with a manager user at the content provider in order to create experiments specifically designed for the content provider . Experiment data store also stores information relating to the ability of the content system to experiment.

Experiment data store may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment experiment data store may comprise a relational database.

With experiment engine communication management system can select from the set of all possible content structures or treatments for a given set of content a sample with which to experiment to optimally address a desired objective or outcome. This allows communication management system cooperating with content system to investigate not only a large number but also more complicated content issues than otherwise possible. Communication management system is thus able to determine which content structure or treatment had what effect on users and therefore what content is optimal for future delivery to other users.

Data view reader which may be in communication with observation module generally functions to retrieve or read observation data collected during experimentation. This observation data may include data relating to the treatments delivered to various users during experimentation and the outcome for each delivery. At least some reactions of users to various treatments can be observed e.g. a user may ultimately purchase a product which is offered in a particular treatment and thus can be considered to be an objective behavior.

Model generator which is in communication with data view reader receives the observation data. Model generator transforms the observation data into a format that can be statistically analyzed. Using the observation data model generator generates one or more behavioral models. These behavioral models may capture the relationship of the incidence of the objective behaviors the set of controlled content variables e.g. placement or background color of a banner advertisement and users to whom content is delivered. Choice models are behavioral in the sense that they describe how the probability of users choices or decisions i.e. their behavior will vary as the levels for any number of variables are manipulated in an experiment. The models are useful for situations that involve interpolation for values not observed and or predictions about treatments not administered during experimentation. In one embodiment model generator may generate one or more contingency tables. Contingency tables are a form of model. Each contingency table can be a report which is useful for situations with a small number of defined outcomes. Contingency tables can be used to check that complex forms of models will succeed. By analyzing a contingency table communication management system can identify data that will cause complex models to fail an estimation step. Contingency tables are very complete and relatively fast forms of modeling.

Model generator can be implemented with algorithms for choice modeling Bayesian modeling neural networks decision trees or other relevant modeling algorithms. At least some of these algorithms for modeling are publicly available for example in various academic publications or commercially available software. In one embodiment model generator can be implemented with MATLAB libraries and object code compiler.

Model data store is in communication with model generator . Model data store generally functions to store and maintain model data . Model data can be any information and data for creating describing defining and implementing the models described herein. For each model model data can specify for example an identifier for the model variables describing the choice options available under the model e.g. prices discount levels background colors variables describing users e.g. time of day that user interacts day of week that user interacts Internet service provider ISP for the user operating system for the user s computer etc. the contents of one or more legacy systems demographic information etc.

Model data storage may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such a random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment model data store may comprise a relational database.

Data view manager object is in communication with model data store and data view reader . Data view manager object generally functions to output the various models to a human user e.g. information system manager at content provider via data view reader for interpretation by the same. In one embodiment data view manager object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

In one embodiment content provider may store user information in separate databases which may be incorporated into model data store . For example an on line banking application supported by a content provider may draw data from a user s Internet session as well as from a financial institution s corporate database. In such case data view manager object would link the corporate database to model data store .

Model output object is in communication with model data store . Model output object generally functions to output the various models to prediction engine for conversion or use as predictions. In one embodiment model output object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

Prediction generator generally functions to generate one or more predictions which predict for example how various users may react to particular content. These predictions may be considered to be a mass customization process. The predictions use the revealed observed preferences of users as embodied in a model to generate statistically viable prediction rules. Prediction generator may receive input from model engine and content provider interface to develop rules for targeting content to specific users in order to achieve desired objectives outcomes e.g. sales of a product thus optimizing the delivery of content . This can be accomplished by converting various models output by model engine .

In one embodiment prediction generator may implement a personalization process. In the area of interactive communications a personalization process can be a process whereby content is targeted and delivered to users based on either their stated or implied preferences. An exemplary personalization process may comprise data mining techniques used to profile or segment users . Segmentation refers to the breakdown division or separation of users into various discrete groups or segments. Each grouping or segment can be a specification or distribution of users with similar behavioral characteristics. The behavior of users within a given segment tends to be more homogenous whereas the behavior of users between segments tends to be less homogenous. Segments can range from none a mass undifferentiated market to unique individuals.

Segments of users can be determined in the modeling process based upon information identified for particular users who are disposed to react in unique ways towards the content as observed in their site related behavior. To implement segmentation the defining information for each segment is tracked for user interactions. This can be accomplished with segmentation rules. A separate set of segmentation rules can be programmed or provided for each segment of users . These rules may specify details for delivering content to users . For example for each segment the respective set of rules may specify which content should be delivered at what time. Alternatively a manager user at content provider can select predefined segments a priori.

Prediction generator converts predictive models generated by model engine into optimized rule sets which are known as predictions. That is prediction generator may perform an optimization process that removes information about unsuccessful content combinations or treatments from content system and or communication management system thus leaving only information for content combinations or treatments worthy of being used.

By removing such non useful data prediction generator enhances the resultant real time processing speed. For any given model operated upon by prediction generator the conversion to a rule set is done to map the model back to terms understandable by the content system. It is possible to 5 accept in this process separate models for various sub populations of users and or include characteristics of individual users that drive differences in their behavior in the models.

As such the techniques and functionality of prediction generator allow inclusion and analysis of many individual characteristics of users as well as different ways in which the characteristics can combine to drive differences in behaviors. For example the time of day may be associated with differences in the propensity of various users to click through a website all other factors being the same. Furthermore the time of day may be associated with differences in the sensitivity of users to attributes like offer price or position on page.

Prediction generator may receive input from a manager user for example to specify particular segments for investigation and optimization of content delivery. Through content provider interface a manager user may specify identification rules based on data fields and values available in the observation module or from the content provider s own customers users or site databases.

Prediction data store is in communication with prediction generator . Prediction data store generally functions to store and maintain prediction data . Prediction data can be any information and data for creating describing defining and implementing the predictions described herein. For each prediction prediction data can specify for example an identifier for the prediction a set of rules for the prediction definitions describing classes of users and the content which is best for each class.

Prediction data store may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment prediction data storage may comprise a relational database.

Prediction output object is in communication with prediction data store and data view reader of model engine . Prediction output object may output the various prediction rules to the content system for application during delivery of content to users . In one embodiment prediction output object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

In some applications which involve extensive content or large amounts of user data the size of the set of prediction rules may be larger than practicable for review by a human user e.g. manager user . To allow for practicable human review prediction engine may incorporate or include one or more rules reduction algorithms for generating a reduced ruleset. Thus when desired a manager user may interact with prediction engine to request a reduced ruleset.

In one exemplary implementation for a rules reduction process users are searched and clustered together according to similarities or differences in their characteristics and optimal content. These clustered groups function as segments for implementing predictions. In another exemplary implementation for a rules reduction process segments are simultaneously searched during the modeling process. In yet another exemplary implementation cost functions are used to constrain the model to produce a reasonably small number of distinct prediction rules.

Observation data store generally functions to maintain or store observation data . Observation data can be data or information relating to the observed behavior of users which visit the website of content provider . Observation data may thus specify for example the users which visit the website an Internet Protocol IP address for each user the experimental conditions under which content is delivered to each user the observed outcomes or results of each visit one or more experiment variables one or more predictive covariates one or more dependant variables time stamps for each visit and other useful data which can be used during analysis. At least a portion of observation data may constitute raw information and basic statistics for observations. Observation data may be maintained as structures which are appropriate for viewing and modeling the results by user e.g. visitor treatment session and user profile. Observation data may allow communication management system and content system to deliver the same treatment to a user who returns to the website e.g. assuming such user returns from an identical IP address . Observation data store may supply observation data to a manager user via content provider interface .

Observation access object is in communication with observation data store . Observation access object generally functions to provide access to storage or retrieval of the observation data . Observation access object may transfer observation data to the model engine in a form that is directly appropriate for modeling. The transfer process may involve checking the observation data for data pathologies e.g. missing data structural dependencies etc. and transforming the data to model ready form e.g. categorization and effects coding . In one embodiment observation access object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

In some instances content provider may store user information in separate databases which may be combined with other data in observation data store . For example an on line banking application supported by a content provider may draw data from a user s Internet session as well as from a financial institution s corporate database. In such case observation access object would link the corporate database to observation data store .

Script interpreter generally functions to run the various scripts which provide instructions or directions to other engines and modules in communication management system and content system e.g. allocator module experiment engine model engine prediction engine or observation module . These scripts may initiate or cause some action to be taken in communication management system or content system in response to various events. Each script may specify a sequence or series of instructions which are issued to other engines and modules in systems and in order to coordinate the operation of the same.

An event can be for example the completion of some task by one of the various modules or engines in communication management system or content system . Notification of each such event may be conveyed by the relevant module or engine to scripting scheduling engine . An event may also relate to the occurrence of a predetermined time e.g. 8 00 a.m. or the lapse of a predetermined amount of time e.g. two hours . Timer keeps track of time and generates information for each event which is time related.

Event queue which is in communication with script interpreter receives and stores information for each event of which scripting scheduling engine is notified or which is generated internally. Event queue implements a queue for handling one or move events. These events can be specified in various scripts and may serve to trigger the issuance of instructions by script interpreter . In other words for each event script interpreter may initiate or cause some action to be taken in communication management system or content system according to the particular script.

For example an event can be the completion of an experiment by experiment engine in which case script interpreter may desirably initiate the generation of a respective model using the results of experimentation. Thus using the data produced by the various modules and engines along with diagnostic information script interpreter may determine whether or not the modules or engines have completed their respective tasks successfully and initiate appropriate action by issuing respective instructions.

Script data store which is in communication with script interpreter generally functions to maintain or store script data . Script data can be data or information relating to the various scripts generated and run by script interpreter . For each script script data may thus specify for example an identifier for the script the instructions which are part of the script the sequence in which the instructions should be issued the events which should trigger the issuance of instructions the modules or engines to which instructions should be issued etc.

Method begins at steps and where communication management system cooperating with content system defines an experimental space and an experiment. In one embodiment experiment engine may generate various definitions for the experiments and corresponding experimental space. These definitions may specify a particular set of content which will be the subject of the experiments one or more treatments into which the content is arranged the time period over which each experiment will be conducted the control groups of users to whom treatments will be delivered the experiment rules which govern delivery of content treatments the behavior of users that should be monitored the objectives outcomes that are desirably achieved etc. In one embodiment a manager user at content provider may interact with communication management system to design the experiments.

At step experiment engine schedules live experiments for delivering particular treatments to respective control groups of users . At step experiment engine working in conjunction with allocator module conducts the defined experiments and collects data relating to the observed behavior of users. In one embodiment allocator module may apply the experiment rules for delivering the various treatments to specific control groups. This may be done in response to user requests for content . Allocator module may store details regarding the observed behavior of users as related to the objectives to be optimized or otherwise in observation module .

At step model engine creates a model using the collected data information for observed behavior. The model may reflect the degree to which the content elements influence the behavior or choices of users . In particular the behavioral model may comprise a sophisticated continuous and discrete multivariate statistical model which can be used to determine what aspects of a content structure or treatment influences the probability of achieving a particular outcome.

At step prediction engine creates or generates a prediction. This prediction can be a simple description of a model which is used to deliver content to users in a way which is most effective to achieve the desired outcomes objectives. The prediction can be implemented in part with a set of prediction rules which target specific content to particular kinds of users. At step communication management system allows a manager user at content provider to customize the prediction if desired.

At step communication management system cooperates with content system to execute the prediction and collect data. In particular allocator module may apply the prediction rules to deliver content in response to requests by users . This results in the delivery of particular treatments to various users depending on certain criteria e.g. time of day click trail etc. . Data relating to the behavior of users to the respective treatments is collected. At step model engine and prediction engine may cooperate to analyze the results of the delivery of treatments during the prediction phase.

At step communication management system determines whether the observed results are satisfactory. That is communication management system determines whether users have reacted in the desired manner to the content treatments which were delivered thus achieving the desired outcomes or objectives. If the observed results are not satisfactory then at step model engine changes the modeling parameters type etc. after which method returns to step where a new model is created. Method repeats steps through until it is determined at step that the results of prediction are satisfactory. At that point method ends.

Method may be performed for each experiment carried out by communication management system cooperating with content system . Each experiment may focus or concentrate on a particular set of content which can be stored in content system . Any set of content can include for example written text images graphics animation video music voice and the like. Elemental 5 components of content can be a text file an image file an audio file a video file etc.

Method begins at step where for the present experiment experiment engine identifies the desired objectives outcomes for user behavior. Such outcomes or objectives can be for example increasing sales and profits improving electronic marketing effectiveness and powering specific business intelligence applications. In one embodiment the desired objectives outcomes can be identified or selected by a manager user of content provider via content provider interface . At step experiment engine identifies which element components of the particular set of content may potentially influence user behavior related to the desired objectives outcomes. This can be part of a designed experiment.

At step experiment engine generates a number of alternative content structures or treatments using various combinations of the elemental components. Each content structure or treatment can be for example a particular implementation of a web page. These alternative content structures may vary in the elemental components for one or more experiment variables under the control of communication management system . These variables can be for example background color screen placement size of content etc. Different values or levels may be available for 30 each variable. For example for a variable of background color different levels can be red blue gray and black. For a variable of screen placement different levels can be top center right bottom lower left etc. The various treatments may be alternately delivered in response to the same request for content as described herein.

At step experiment engine assigns control variables and levels for implementation of the experiments. This yields a number of alternate content structures or treatments for the particular set of content of the present experiment. For example in one treatment a banner advertisement may have a background color of yellow and be placed in the top right corner of a screen whereas in another treatment a banner advertisement may have a background color of blue and be placed in the middle left portion of a screen. These alternate treatments for content may be delivered to users during experimentation. Afterwards method ends.

Method begins at step where experiment engine and scripting scheduling engine select one or more content structures or treatments for delivery to users during the present experiment. Each treatment can be a particular format for content to be presented on a web page. For example one treatment for the content of a web page can include a blue background on which photographs of each article are displayed from top to bottom on the left side of the screen with accompanying descriptions provided on the right side next to each photograph. Another treatment for the content can include a red background on which photographs of each article are displayed from left to right on the top of the screen with the accompanying descriptions provided beneath each photograph at the bottom of the screen.

These treatments may be alternately delivered in response to the same request for content. An exemplary request can be a request for a web page displaying a particular line of products e.g. several articles of clothing . Such web page request can specify a particular identifier for the web page such as for example a uniform resource locator URL . Furthermore the web page request can be related to a user s action of clicking on a particular hyperlink on a web page.

At step communication management system specifies a particular target population or segment of users to receive the selected treatments. In one embodiment a manager user may explicitly specify a particular target population of site users. For example a target population can be those users who access a particular web page between the hours of 4 00 p.m. and 10 00 p.m. on weekdays. At step allocator module statistically samples to select one or more control groups of users from a target population. For example in one embodiment statistical sampling procedures are used to select from all site visitors a profile matched random sample who will receive the control treatments as described herein. Each control group may comprise one or more users who request content from content provider . Each control group may receive a different treatment during experimentation in response to identical requests for content. At step communication management system assigns control variables and values levels for implementation thereby specifying which treatment will be delivered to each control group.

At step allocator module via user interface allocates or delivers the respective treatment to each control group. Various users making identical requests to the website of content provider e.g. by specifying the same URL or clicking on the same hyperlink may be delivered different treatments during the experimentation. With reference to the example described above a first control group requesting information about the line of clothing may receive the treatment with a blue background and vertically positioned photographs while a second control group requesting the same information may receive the treatment with a red background and horizontally positioned photographs. Allocator module may store or record information on the control treatments and delivery to respective control groups in observation module .

At step communication management system cooperating with content system tracks the site related behavior of users receiving the various treatments. This behavior can be an indicator for how favorably or unfavorably the users viewed the different treatments. Continuing with the immediate example forty percent of the users in the first control group may actually purchase an item of clothing when presented with the treatment comprising a blue background and vertically aligned photographs while only fifteen percent of the users in the second control group may actually purchase an item of clothing when presented with the treatment comprising a red background and horizontally aligned photographs. Communication management system records information and data relating to such user behavior. This information or data can include dependent variable information which is associated with the desired objectives outcomes. All of this information may be stored into observation module as observation data .

In one embodiment user behavior can be categorized into various states. These states can be for example a decision to purchase a good a decision not to purchase a good a decision to remain at a particular web page a decision to move to another web page etc. Across the different control groups communication management system may record each change of state of user behavior for the various 5 treatments to identify how differences in treatment influence the changes in state. Method may then end.

Method begins at step where model engine retrieves from observation module observation data produced during the experiments conducted in part by experiment engine . This observation data includes data or information relating to the observed behavior of users which visit the website of content provider . Among other things the observation data may specify for example the users which visit the website of content provider the experimental conditions under which content is delivered to each user the observed outcomes or results of each visit and one or more dependent variables related to the behavior observed during each visit.

At step model engine analyzes the observation data using multivariate statistical modeling techniques e.g. Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo estimation procedures to determine what aspects type and format of content influenced the probability of outcomes. To accomplish this model engine may analyze or consider the various dependent variables related to the behavior observed during experimentation. Model engine may generate one or more predictive covariates.

At step using the results of the analysis model engine in cooperation with prediction engine determines what content structure or treatment is best for achieving some desired outcome or objective. In particular model engine and prediction engine generate a prediction for example for how various users may react to particular content. This can be done by converting a model into a set of prediction rules. The prediction rules target content to specific users in order to achieve desired objectives outcomes e.g. sales of a product thus optimizing the delivery of content . Method then ends.

According to an embodiment the selection of treatments for delivery to control groups during an experiment is optimized to provide treatments estimated to greatest probability of satisfying one or more objectives of the experiment. As described above the content system shown in delivers treatments to users during the experiment and the observation module in the communications management system functions to store observation data. The observation data includes information relating to the observed behavior of users interacting with the treatments. This can include information for the experimental conditions and the observed outcomes.

According to an embodiment confidences are determined for treatments delivered to the control groups using the observation data for the delivered treatments. A confidence for a treatment is an estimation of an ability of the corresponding treatment or a combination of content elements in the treatment to be used to satisfy one or more objectives. These confidences are used to determine weightings for new treatments and the weightings are used to determine proportions of treatments to be delivered to the control groups. In one example treatments or combinations of content elements having higher confidences e.g. representative of having greater ability to satisfy one or more objectives are given higher weights. Then the higher weighted treatments are delivered in greater proportion than lower weighted treatments to the control groups. This minimizes the delivery of sub optimal treatments throughout the experimental process thereby reducing the time of experimentation.

The model engine determines predictive models which are used to select treatments for the experiment and the prediction engine determines the predictive rules for selecting treatments. According to an embodiment the prediction engine also determines a confidence for each treatment delivered to the control groups based on the observation data of control groups receiving the treatments. For example the prediction engine includes a confidence determination module . The confidence determination module may be included in the model generator . The confidence determination module uses statistical analysis to quantify how well the delivered treatment satisfied the objective based on the observation data. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the confidence determination module may be provided in other areas of the system.

Each treatment delivered to the control groups may include a combination of content elements and a confidence is determined for the treatment or for the combination of content elements in the treatment. Note that a treatment may also have a single content element and thus a confidence may be determined for the single content element.

A combination of elements in a treatment is described as follows. Each content element may constitute a factor to be considered and analyzed and each content element can be characterized by a type and a variation. For example consider a case in which there are two types of content elements a banner advertisement and a text message which can be displayed below the banner advertisement. Each content element may have variations. For the banner advertisement the variations can be static and moving and different color backgrounds and text. For the text message advertisement the variations can be different color text. An example of a combination of content elements for the banner advertisement includes a moving banner advertisement with a particular background color e.g. yellow and text color e.g. orange .

A treatment including a moving banner advertisement with orange text and a yellow background is delivered over a network to one or more control groups each comprising one or more users. The interaction of the users with the treatment in each control group is captured. In a simple case the objective is to maximize the number of users that click on the advertisement. The observation module stores an indication of the users that clicked on the banner advertisement. This number of users clicking on the banner advertisement may be used by the confidence determination module to determine a confidence for the banner advertisement. The confidence is stored along with an indication of the treatment and the treatment s combination of elements. The indication of the treatment may include a unique ID for the treatment and a description of the content elements in the treatment. The indication of the combination of elements may identify the content element type and the particular variation of the type for each element in the combination. In this example it would be a banner advertisement type with variations comprising moving yellow background and orange text. Confidences are determined for each treatment and are stored. The confidences may be stored at the model engine and sent to the content store for example via the prediction engine and the allocator module for storage. The prediction engine may also receive a predictive model from the model engine and generate predictive rules which are sent to the allocator module for selecting treatments as described above. shows confidences treatments and predictive rules stored in the content store . The confidences are for treatments that have been delivered to the control groups.

At step treatments are delivered to one or more control groups for example via a network. The treatments may include online content. The content system for example selects and delivers treatments to the control groups.

At step observation data is captured and stored for delivered treatments. This includes the user interactions with the treatments. The users are in the control groups. The observation module may be used to capture and store the observation data. Observation data may also be stored in the content store .

At step confidences are determined for the delivered treatments using the observation data. The confidence determination module shown in uses the observation data to determine how well the treatment satisfied the one or more objectives. In a simplistic example where the objective is to maximize the number of clicks on an online advertisement the confidence may be determined using the size of the control group and the percentage of users in the control group that clicked on the advertisement. More sophisticated statistical analysis procedures may be used to determine a confidence.

At step the confidences are stored. Each stored confidence may also include an indication of the corresponding delivered treatment and the stored combination of elements of the treatment. By identifying the combination of elements with a confidence the combination of elements and corresponding confidence can be used to select new treatments to deliver to the control groups during the experiment as is described in detail below. The method is repeated as different sets of treatments are delivered to control groups and evaluated. The stored confidences may then be used to optimize selection of new treatments to be delivered to the control groups.

At step a set of treatments are determined for the experiment. Initially treatments may be determined by the experiment engine . For example the experiment engine generates treatments based on the experiment definition stated variations of content elements and observations in previous experiments. The treatments are stored in the content store . A set of treatments is elected from the stored treatments. Subsequently sets of treatments are determined based on confidences.

At step the set of treatments is delivered to one or more control groups and at step observation data is captured for the delivered treatments. This is similar to steps and of the method described above. For example treatments are delivered to one or more control groups via a network. The observation data is captured and stored for delivered treatments. This includes the user interactions with the treatments. The users are in the control groups. The observation module may be used to capture and store the observation data. Observation data may also be stored in the content store .

At step a prediction is determined using the observation data. The prediction is an estimation of how users will react to certain treatments based on past behavior of users of similar characteristics. The model engine and the prediction engine may be used to generate the prediction. For example the model engine analyzes the observation data to generate a prediction model and the prediction engine uses the prediction model to generate predictive rules for selecting treatments. Steps and of the method shown in describe generating the prediction model and predictive rules in further detail.

At step the communication management system determines whether the observed results are satisfactory. This is similar to step shown in . For example the communication management system determines whether users in the control groups have reacted in the desired manner to the content treatments which were delivered thus achieving the desired outcomes or objectives. This determination is performed based on the prediction model. If the observed results are not satisfactory then new treatments are selected as described in the following steps starting at step . If the observed results are satisfactory then at step the experiment is finished. The optimal treatments i.e. the best choices of available content may then be returned to new visitors and optimal treatment rules may be published. The optimal treatment rules can be used for selecting and delivering optimal treatments to new visitors.

At step confidences for the treatments in the set are determined using the observation data and the confidences are stored such as described in steps and in the method .

At step a new set of treatments is determined based on the confidences. Confidences and the predictive model and predictive rules may be used to select a new set of treatments. Similar to step in the allocator module applies the predictive rules to select a new set of treatments for example from the content store .

According to an embodiment the new set of treatments are selected from a group of candidate treatments. Thus prior to selecting the new set of treatments a group of candidate treatments is determined. A treatment is selected to be a candidate treatment based on its confidence and using other criteria. As described above confidences for treatments are determined. Confidences may be stored with the treatments or confidences are stored for corresponding combinations of elements and are matched with the treatments according to the combination of elements in each treatment.

In one example treatments having confidences below a threshold are dismissed and not selected as a candidate treatment. The threshold may be a relatively low threshold that is used to identify treatments that clearly would not be able to satisfy an objective of the experiment. Treatments having confidences above the threshold are selected as candidate treatments. These candidate treatments are used in the new set of treatments identified at step .

At step a weight is determined for each candidate treatment. For example a weighting is calculated by the prediction engine for each candidate treatment. The weighting may be such that higher confidences are given higher weights.

At step a proportion of candidate treatments for delivery is determined based on the weights. For example to optimize the selection of treatments to deliver to the control group that are estimated to have the best ability to achieve the objective of the experiment the candidate treatments having higher confidences are delivered to the control groups in greater proportion to candidate treatments having lower confidences.

In one example confidences are determined for combinations of elements and the combinations of elements are weighted. Treatments having combinations of elements corresponding to the higher weighted combinations are selected from the content store and are delivered in greater proportion than treatments having the lower weighted combinations of elements.

A confidence may be determined in error. For example a treatment is inaccurately given a low confidence. As the treatment is re delivered to the control groups over time the treatment will automatically be given a higher confidence because that treatment will continue to be selected by the users of the control groups. Thus the weighting procedure provides for automatic confidence correction.

Steps of the method are repeated until treatments are identified that satisfy the objective of the experiment. The method should reduce the amount of time to identify treatments that satisfy the objective through the steps for the optimal selection process of treatments for the new set.

The computer system includes a processor that may implement or execute software instructions performing some or all of the methods functions and other steps described herein. The software is stored in a computer readable storage medium such as main memory and or secondary data storage . Commands and data from the processor are communicated over a communication bus . The computer system also includes the main memory such as a random access memory RAM where the software and data for processor may reside during runtime and the secondary data storage which may be non volatile and stores software and data. The memory and data storage are examples of computer readable mediums.

The computer system may include one or more I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display etc. The computer system may include a network interface for connecting to a network. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that other known electronic components may be added or substituted in the computer system .

While the embodiments have been described with reference to examples those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claimed embodiments.

