---

title: Proximity access and/or alarm apparatus
abstract: The system provides for secure transmission of keys in real-time, and provides safeguards in case of breach of security.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313313&OS=09313313&RS=09313313
owner: 
number: 09313313
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080826
---
The present application is a Continuation In Part CIP of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 177 495 filed Jul. 22 2008.

The present inventions relate to wireless security and more specifically relates to a proximity access device.

More and more personal data is being stored on ever smaller and more mobile devices. The risk that sensitive data regarding identity access codes or business information could be compromised if one of these devices is misplaced increases with the amount of information that can be stored on them and their increasingly pervasive use. Requiring the entry of security codes or keys is a partial solution but the efficacy of this solution decreases to the extent that the data onboard the device can be used if the mobile device lands in the wrong hands.

Portable electronic devices such as cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs wireless email devices instant messaging devices pagers portable compact disk CD players portable MP3 players and others are often forgotten lost or stolen a PED includes any portable device that can be used for communication performing intellectual and or physical work and or entertainment .

PCs software like LOCKITNOW provides the ability to pair a computer with a mobile phone and have the Windows login unlock when the user is in proximity and lock when the user is out of proximity.

Another method for protecting data onboard a personal electronic device PED is disclosed in U.S. patent application 60 199 538 titled Automatic data encryption and access control based on BLUETOOTH device proximity which decrypts data on contact with a paired BLUETOOTH device and encrypts the data on loss of contact. This method is inefficient can cause data corruption and more importantly it does not provide high level security. The Bluetooth ID of paired Bluetooth device can be obtained from the operating system and can be used to fake the BLUETOOTH device.

It is noted that PED can refer to a computer a mobile phone a handheld device an information system a vehicle electronic computer or any electronic system.

US Patent application publication 20050280546 discloses two mobile transceivers that are linked through a BLUETOOTH link. The BLUETOOTH enabled RF link between the first and second mobile transceiver units forms a monitoring piconet. The second mobile transceiver unit provides an alarm indication when the first mobile transceiver unit moves beyond a distance of approximately ten meters from the second mobile transceiver unit. The second device repeatedly pages the first device and waits for a response. If a response is not received an alarm is issued. This method has been tested and found to be unreliable due to high energy consumption and due to the human body blocking Bluetooth signals.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 885 848 is directed to an apparatus for preventing the loss of a portable telephone that uses BLUETOOTH communication protocol. The signal strength is periodically monitored and an alarm issued to the headphone when the signal is below a threshold. BLUETOOTH protocol provides for a received signal strength indicator RSSI value or the Link Quality value to be determined at any time. If the value received is below a threshold an alarm is issued to the headphone. This system may reduce the chance that a portable telephone is lost or stolen but if the mobile phone falls in the wrong hands this system does not prevent the data from being accessed.

Thus a need exists for a method and apparatus for securing assets and sensitive data on them that are reliable simple to use cost effective mobile adaptable and secure that consists of Separating the location of encrypted data and encryption key. Data should be encrypted at all times and should be decrypted in memory only when it is requested by the user and after wirelessly validating security credentials. The key should be personalized non sharable. An administrator should be able to initialize distribute and manage the keys remotely. An administrator should be able block and to replace keys in case of loss or theft without compromising the security of a number of devices and without compromising access to existing data.

The following provides further details of the present inventions summarized above and illustrated in a schematic fashion in the Figures. In accordance with a first aspect of the present inventions is a schematic illustration of a proximity access and or alarm device PAAD comprising a transceiver system operatively connected with at least one activation switch a visual indication center or display a power store a communication center and an antenna . Display can be used to indicate the status of the device such as whether it is powered if the BLUETOOTH transceiver system BT is discoverable or non discoverable if the BT is pairing or paired with another BT the BT mode inter alia.

In a preferred embodiment the components of the PAAD can fit in a volume less about 60 30 10 mm or 18 cc so that PAAD can fit into a housing having an interior with dimensions of 60 30 10 mm or no more than 18 cc. In another embodiment PAAD can fit into a volume 10 cc and weigh about 50 grams or less and preferably less than about 10 g. Devices of the present invention should take up minimal volume and be light weight. For example each device of the present inventions will preferably fit into a space having a volume of 56 cubic centimeters 25 cubic centimeters 22.5 cubic centimeters 18 cubic centimeters 10 cubic centimeters or 1 cubic centimeters and each device of the present inventions preferably has a weight less than about 200 grams less than about 50 grams or less than about 10 grams.

An attachment mechanism or system including but not limited to a hook harness notebook security lock insert pin clip badge clip key chain car key firearm activation key ring tee dog collar Velcro ring fastening mechanism sticky surface are optionally attached to PAAD .

Control or activation switches can be any type of button switch remote sensor touch sensor contact sensor bio sensor key pad to enter password or activation system. Activation switches are used to turn the PAAD ON OFF to shut off the alarm of communication center . For example a single control button can cycle through a menu of functions by changing the length of time that the button is held and or the speed with which a first press is followed by a second press analogous to the single and double click on a computer mouse . One or two control buttons coupled with a simple display screen can adjust a variety of operational parameters.

Transceiver system is preferably a Bluetooth transceiver. In an alternative embodiment transceiver can be Wibree or Wifi. Transceiver enables connectivity over the 2.4 GHz radio frequency RF band. Transceiver system includes a radio and base band IC integrated circuit for BLUETOOTH 2.4 GHz systems. BLUETOOTH ICs are generally available from manufacturers such as CSR or Broadcom and comprises a full system including baseband processor RF front end RAM Flash ROM.

In a preferred embodiment transceiver system includes ROM Flash memory or external memory or any other type of memory. In an alternative embodiment transceiver system includes a power amplifier PA and or low noise amplifier LNA for increasing the BLUETOOTH transmission range.

In a preferred embodiment transceiver system includes a processor RAM and Flash. Software firmware can be loaded on Flash using SPI flashing. The processor executes the BLUETOOTH protocol as well as the firmware that provides custom functionality example proximity detection alarming functionality applying transformations transferring keys . . . . The processor can also execute other functionality such as sending files on pairing flashing lights providing voice functionality relaying voice to a remote BLUETOOTH device detecting connection from a remote BLUETOOTH device etc.

The BLUETOOTH specification a de facto standard containing information required to ensure that devices supporting BLUETOOTH can communicate with each other worldwide defines two transmission ranges for personal area networking. The range is between 10 m and 100 m without a line of sight requirement. The radio link is capable of voice and data transmission up to a maximum capacity of 720 kbps per channel. Any other range can be designed.

A BLUETOOTH network is completely self organising and ad hoc personal area networks PANs can be established wherever two or more BLUETOOTH Wibree Wifi devices are sufficiently close to establish radio contact. Equipment capable of BLUETOOTH connectivity is able to self organise by automatically searching within range for other BLUETOOTH enabled devices. Upon establishing a contact information is exchanged which determines if the connection should be completed or not. During this first encounter the BLUETOOTH devices connect via a process of authorisation and authentication.

BLUETOOTH Pairing happens when two BLUETOOTH enabled devices authenticate each other and agree to communicate with one another. When this happens the two devices join what is can be referred to as a trusted pair. When one device recognizes another device in an established trusted pair each device automatically accepts communication bypassing the discovery and authentication process that normally happen during BLUETOOTH interactions. After pairing each device may store the Bluetooth ID of the second device for future use.

Bluetooth inquiry procedure enables a device to discover which devices are in range and determine the addresses and clocks for the devices. The inquiry procedure involves a unit sending out inquiry packets inquiry state and then receiving the inquiry reply. The unit that receives the inquiry packets the destination will hopefully be in the inquiry scan state to receive the inquiry packets. The destination will then enter the inquiry response state and send an inquiry reply to the source. After the inquiry procedure has completed a connection can be established using the paging procedure.

Paging Procedure is used to communication with another device directly using a device Bluetooth address. Paging allows sending packets to a specific Bluetooth device.

Power store provides power to some of the components of PAAD . Power store can be a capacitor a battery fuel cell nickel cadmium lithium lithium polymer lithium ion alkaline or nickel hydride battery or any other portable source of electric power or a combination of a capacitor and a battery whereby the capacitor onboard a main unit is used to power transceiver system for a number of utilizations and it can be charged from time to time by attaching the main unit to a detachable battery unit. Power store can also be replaced with photovoltaic cells a rechargeable battery or a battery rechargeable from a distance such as by induction . When PAAD is not in operation it remains in a dormant state sleep mode to conserve the energy of power store . For example small 1.5 volt batteries and the like such as those used in small devices like hearing aids calculators and watches are widely available and can be used as for a power source. One of ordinary skill in the art can readily determine the battery size and power requirements for different embodiments of the present inventions. It is envisioned that other low power specifications can be used in connection with the present inventions. For example an ultra low power wireless technology called Wibree has been developed. Wibree addresses devices with very low battery capacity and can be easily integrated with BLUETOOTH technology.

Visual indication center comprises one or more LED. The LED can turn on and off periodically to indicate the system is on. The color and frequency of the LEDs can indicate different events such as normal mode pairing mode alarm mode low battery mode voice mode etc In a preferred embodiment visual indication center while indicating the status of the system also illuminates a customizable face plate made out of clear material such as acrylic. A logo or graphic can be printed on the face plate thus allowing to easily and economically change the look and branding of the device. This automatically leverages the visual indication center and adds a promotional value and function to the device above and beyond the main functions.

In another embodiment visual indication center can be an LCD or any other indication means and communication center includes an alarm audible from a distance greater than 3 feet. A regular alarm is between 65 and 120 decibels at 10 feet. Noise levels above 85 decibels can harm hearing over time. Noise levels above 140 decibels can cause damage to hearing after just one exposure. In a preferred embodiment communication center has more than 50 decibels or 50 dBA at 10 feet or exceeds ambient sound level by 5 decibels minimum. In a preferred embodiment the alarm provides an audible signal of at least 60 decibels at 10 cm or an audible alarm at 0.5 meter to notify the user of a designated event such as a laptop or phone left behind. The human ear does not respond equally to all frequencies humans are much more sensitive to sounds in the frequency range about 1 kHz to 4 kHz 1000 to 4000 vibrations per second than to very low or high frequency sounds. Sound meters are usually fitted with a filter that has a frequency response similar to the human ear. If the A weighting filter is used the sound pressure level is given in units of dB A or dBA. In residential areas most noise comes from transportation construction industrial and human and animal sources. Road traffic noise is the leading source of community noise. The noise can be highly variable. It is common that Day Night sound levels in different areas vary over a range of 50 dB. The outdoor level in a wilderness area may occur as low as 30 to 40 dBA and as high as 85 90 dBA in an urban area. Most urban dwellers lives in areas of noise level more than 48 dBA.

Communication center can be any type of audio video tactile or mechanical interface means capable of conveying information to the user. Communication center can also be any type of data port connector USB connector mini USB connector for exchanging information with a personal computer. In another preferred embodiment communication center is used to flash one or more digital keys or a program onto PAAD using an application that runs on a PC. For example a user may buy a new door handle compatible with PAAD and may update the digital key associated with the door handle onto PAAD so that PAAD can work with the new door handle. In this scenario when the user opens the door handle the door handle automatically authenticates PAAD and automatically unlocks. When the door handle looses connection with PAAD the door handle may automatically lock. Flash or flashing is a process for writing data to flash memory. A commonly used process to flash BLUETOOTH devices consists of using SPI Serial Programming Interface protocol and sending receiving data to BLUETOOTH device through 4 connections MOSI MISO CLK CSB. The 4 connections and GND can be tied directly to ports on the LPT port. Alternatively the 4 connections are tied to ports onboard a USB to SPI converter and the USB to SPI converter is connected to USB port onboard the personal computer. A flashing program runs on PED and sends flashing instructions to either BLUETOOTH chipset directly through SPI protocol or to USB to SPI converter which in turns sends flashing instructions to BLUETOOTH chipset through SPI protocol. SPI flashing allows to load a new program or to change parameters.

In another preferred embodiment communication center is used to flash private information such as passwords for different web sites data bases computers etc and associated information onto PAAD . Audio means can be any audio device such as a speaker a buzzer a Piezo buzzer omni directional speaker directional speaker an ultrasound or any other audio device. Visual means can be an LED or any visual information display device. Tactile means can be any tactile sensor such as a vibrator or a heat generating device.

Antenna can be any type of antenna including chip antenna patch antenna PCB antenna and dipole antennas.

In an embodiment PAAD can be inserted beneath the skin or included inside the housing of objects such as portable computers or RFID badges. It can also be carried as a keychain or attached to people or objects through a hook harness notebook security lock insert pin clip badge access card clip key chain car key firearm activation key ring tee dog collar Velcro fastener ring fastening mechanism sticky or adhesive surface or any other attachment mechanism. Many notebook computers have a security slot on the side which can be utilized by inserting a notebook security lock the lock can be attached to an external device such as a cable or desktop securing mechanism.

PAAD can also be encased in waterproof packaging and attached to clothes. The packaging can also be shock or impact resistant. System can be incorporated in any other plastic or portable electronic device or object including for example a cell phone PDA a wireless email device an instant messaging device or pager a portable computer an MP3 player a portable music player a portable radio device or any portable electronic device. Preferably PAAD has dimensions of less than 10 cm 10 cm 5 cm otherwise stated as 10 10 10 cm and is less than 200 g in weight. In an embodiment there are no manually operated controls e.g. off on or activation button is magnetically operated so the housing is not provided with button or switch access and the device may not have a display. In an embodiment the housing of the device includes at least one seal and or is waterproof so that immersion in water or preferably even running the device through laundering machines does not damage the electronic components. In a preferred embodiment system has a size equal to or smaller than 5 cm 3 cm 1.5 cm or 22.5 cubic centimeters cc . A device having the desired functions of the present inventions can fit all of its components into a volume less than 1000 cc preferably less than about 56 cc 22.5 cc and even 10 cc. Each mobile proximity sensor or remote sensor weighs less than 200 grams preferably less than 50 g and even less than 10 g. A preferred device has no than four manually operated buttons or switches and preferably has only one manually operated button or activation switch and no more than one display. Each mobile proximity sensor consumes less than 50 mA.

An embodiment of a remote sensor for attachment to or carrying by a person has no manually operated controls and no display such an embodiment would be difficult to disable and particularly durable to operate under robust physical and environmental challenges. Such a device might be carried by soldiers and law enforcement personnel and have a beacon or alarm that is activated should the housing be broken.

Audio center can be any type of microphone speaker earphone wire etc. In a preferred embodiment the electronic components of PAAD can be fit into a volume of about 60 30 10 mm or 18 cc or less. For example PAAD may be fit into a volume less than about 56 cc 22.5 cc 18 cc or 10 cc.

Bearing can be a pivot articulation U joint a ball joint pop up coil slide rail a telescoping tube or any attachment mechanism for a detachable or movable earpiece. Bearing may be mounted to speaker and may allow adjusting the angle and distance of speaker relative to the main body of PAAD across one or more planes.

Capsule can easily attach and detach to PAAD . Capsule allows to protect speaker while not in use. Capsule can attach to a key chain and allows to easily carry PAAD as a key chain when not in use as a headset and to easily detach it and use it as a headset when needed.

In another embodiment transceiver system comprises a second BLUETOOTH system that runs AGHFP profile and that allows transceiver system to function as a relay between a personal electronic device and a headset thus the user can connection transceiver system to a mobile phone and use all the functions of transceiver system while at the same time use a headset.

Referring to in an embodiment PAAD comprises a transceiver system connected with activation switches visual indication center power store and communication center .

Referring to in an embodiment PAAD comprises a transceiver system connected with activation switches visual indication center power store communication center audio center bearing speaker and microphone . Microphone is any device capable of capturing voice.

Turning now to the flowchart illustrates the steps involved in detecting that a portable electronic device PED is outside a desired range of a base device a base device may be referred to as a master and the monitored remote devices referred to as slaves . The PED can be for example a mobile phone a PDA a wireless email device an instant messaging device a pager a portable computer an MP3 player a portable music player a portable radio or any PED. In step the user activates proximity access and or alarm device by pressing activation switch or button .

Activation switch has several modes. In a preferred mode a long press of activation button on the base unit indicates ON OFF event. A long press may be defined by either the length of time that switch is manually held in a second position against a bias that holds the switch in a first position when at rest or a signal may be given to indicate that a desired mode of operation or desired action has been initiated. For example a very long press can cause a switch to pairing mode. In a preferred embodiment a double click refers to a long pause.

In another embodiment activation switch button press can cause one or more messages to be automatically sent to a paired personal electronic device. An application program running on said paired personal electronic device PED perform one or more actions in response to said messages. For example on a button press a password and an address address can be a URL a link a phone number a WAP address an IP address a file name . . . are automatically sent to PED and a connection to the address is automatically established.

In another embodiment when PED needs to authenticate the user PED verifies that paired PAAD is within proximity. PED can either try to establish a Bluetooth connection HFP SPP HID . . . can page PAAD and wait for a response or can do an inquiry and verify that a response is received from paired PAAD . In a preferred embodiment PAAD runs as SPP or HFP service. If PAAD does not have voice functionality then PAAD will first check if paired device supports SPP and if so PAAD will use SPP. If not PAAD will connect as HFP. PAAD does not have to implement the full functions of HFP. For example audio connect disconnect forward etc. do not have to be implemented. If PAAD comprises a microphone and a speaker then HFP is used.

In step unitary transceiver system in a unitary base unit establishes a BLUETOOTH connection with a monitored remote device. The wireless connection can be a SPP serial port profile connection HSP headset profile connection or a HFP Hands Free profile connection. Other connection profiles that can be used include AGHFP audio gateway HFP RFCOMM A2DP advanced audio distribution profile AVRCP audio video remote control profile AVCTP audio video control transport protocol AVDTP audio video distribution transport protocol DUN dial up networking and GAVDP general audio video distribution profile .

In one embodiment messages between said PAAD and said PED may be encrypted using regular encryption algorithms or using digital tones or any other encoding decoding method.

In one embodiment transceiver system does not redirect voice calls thus the mobile phone operations remain intact. Transceiver system uses a BLUETOOTH operational mode that uses minimal power e.g. one of sniff hold or park modes. In a preferred embodiment only BLUETOOTH sniff mode is used after pairing to assure low power usage and optimize convenience to the user by reducing the frequency of battery recharging or replacement.

In sniff mode a device listens only periodically during specific sniff slots but retains synchronization with the paired BLUETOOTH device onboard the monitored device. In other embodiments transceiver system can use hold mode wherein a device listens only to determine if it should become active or park mode wherein a device transmits its address. Sniff mode assures very low power consumption and thus extends battery life. In sniff mode a BLUETOOTH master radio frequency unit e.g. base addresses a slave radio frequency unit e.g. remote which enables the slave to synchronize to the master by sending poll packets and optionally null packets over an active link the master being arranged so that receipt of a response from the slave unit to a poll packet is sufficient to maintain the active link. The slave unit does not have to respond to all poll packets. This approach can allow the slave to preserve more transmit power by going into a deep sleep mode in which a low power oscillator may be used while still allowing the master unit to detect whether the slave has resynchronized or not and thus to update a Link Supervision Timer for example .

BLUETOOTH Wireless Technology Profiles In order to use BLUETOOTH wireless technology a device must be able to interpret certain BLUETOOTH profiles. The profiles define the possible applications. BLUETOOTH profiles are general behaviors through which BLUETOOTH enabled devices communicate with other devices. BLUETOOTH technology defines a wide range of profiles that describe many different types of uses.

At a minimum each profile specification contains information on 1 dependency on other profiles 2 suggested user interface formats and 3 specific parts of the BLUETOOTH protocol stack used by the profile. To perform its task each profile uses particular options and parameters at each layer of the stack. This may include an outline of the required service record if appropriate.

Serial Port Profile SPP . SPP defines how to set up virtual serial ports and connect two BLUETOOTH enabled devices. SPP is based on the ETSI TS07.10 specification and uses the RFCOMM protocol to provide serial port emulation. SPP provides a wireless replacement for existing RS 232 based serial communications applications and control signals. SPP provides the basis for the DUN FAX HSP and LAN profiles. This profile supports a data rate up to 128 kbit sec. SPP is dependent on GAP.

Object Push Profile OPP . OPP defines how to push a file to a BLUETOOTH device. When PAAD is first paired with PED PAAD can automatically send a file to PED to install drivers and application program necessary for transferring messages and data between PDAP and PED.

RFCOMM. The RFCOMM protocol emulates the serial cable line settings and status of an RS 232 serial port and is used for providing serial data transfer. RFCOMM connects to the lower layers of the BLUETOOTH protocol stack through the L2CAP layer. By providing serial port emulation RFCOMM supports legacy serial port applications while also supporting the OBEX protocol among others. RFCOMM is a subset of the ETSI TS 07.10 standard along with some BLUETOOTH specific adaptations.

Hands Free Profile HFP . HFP describes how a device can be used to pair to connect to an audio gateway such as a mobile phone and to place and receive calls. A typical application is a BLUETOOTH headset device or a BLUETOOTH car kit. Hands Free Audio Gateway Profile AGHFP describes how a gateway device such as a mobile phone can be used to pair to connect and to send and receive calls to from a hands free device. A typical configuration is a mobile phone.

Headset Profile HSP . The HSP describes how a BLUETOOTH enabled headset should communicate with a computer or other BLUETOOTH enabled device such as a mobile phone. When connected and configured the headset can act as the remote device s audio input and output interface. The HSP relies on SCO for audio and a subset of AT commands from GSM 07.07 for minimal controls including the ability to ring answer a call hang up and adjust the volume.

Advanced Audio Distribution Profile A2DP . A2DP describes how stereo quality audio can be streamed from a media source to a sink. The profile defines two roles of an audio source and sink. A typical usage scenario can be considered as the walkman class of media player. The audio source would be the music player and the audio sink is the wireless headset. A2DP defines the protocols and procedures that realize distribution of audio content of high quality in mono or stereo on ACL channels. The term advanced audio therefore should be distinguished from BLUETOOTH audio which indicates distribution of narrow band voice on SCO channels as defined in the baseband specification.

Audio Video Control Transport Protocol AVCTP . AVCTP describes the transport mechanisms to exchange messages for controlling A V devices.

Audio Video Distribution Transport Protocol AVDTP . AVDTP defines A V stream negotiation establishment and transmission procedures.

Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . AVRCP is designed to provide a standard interface to control TVs hi fi equipment or other A C equipment to allow a single remote control or other device to control all the A V equipment that a user has access to. It may be used in concert with A2DP or VDP. AVRCP defines how to control characteristics of streaming media. This includes pausing stopping and starting playback and volume control as well as other types of remote control operations. The AVRCP defines two roles that of a controller and a target device. The controller is typically considered the remote control device while the target device is the one whose characteristics are being altered. In a walkman type media player scenario the control device may be a headset that allows tracks to be skipped and the target device would be the actual medial player.

This protocol specifies the scope of the AV C Digital Interface Command Set AV C command set defined by the 1394 trade association to be applied realizing simple implementation and easy operability. This protocol adopts the AV C device model and command format for control messages and those messages are transported by the Audio Video Control Transport Protocol AVCTP .

In AVRCP the controller translates the detected user action to the A V control signal and then transmits it to a remote BLUETOOTH enabled device. The functions available for a conventional infrared remote controller can be realized in this protocol. The remote control described in this protocol is designed specifically for A V control only.

Dial up Networking Profile DUN . DUN provides a standard to access the Internet and other dial up services over BLUETOOTH technology. The most common scenario is accessing the Internet from a laptop by dialing up on a mobile phone wirelessly. It is based on SPP and provides for relatively easy conversion of existing products through the many features that it has in common with the existing wired serial protocols for the same task. These include the AT command set specified in ETSI 07.07 and PPP.

Like other profiles built on top of SPP the virtual serial link created by the lower layers of the BLUETOOTH protocol stack is transparent to applications using the DUN profile. Thus the modem driver on the data terminal device is unaware that it is communicating over BLUETOOTH technology. The application on the data terminal device is similarly unaware that it is not connected to the gateway device by a cable. DUN describes two roles the gateway and terminal devices. The gateway device provides network access for the terminal device. A typical configuration consists of a mobile phone acting as the gateway device for a personal computer acting as the terminal role.

General Audio Video Distribution Profile GAVDP . GAVDP provides the basis for A2DP and VDP the basis of the systems designed for distributing video and audio streams using BLUETOOTH technology. GAVDP defines two roles an initiator and an acceptor. In a typical usage scenario a device such as a walkman is used as the initiator and a headset is used as the acceptor. GAVDP specifies signaling transaction procedures between two devices to set up terminate and reconfigure streaming channels. The streaming parameters and encode decode features are included in A2DP and VDP which depend on this profile.

In step transceiver system monitors the BLUETOOTH connection automatically. In this step transceiver system is in sniff mode and power consumption is below 1 mA. A significant benefit of this system is the ability to monitor a connection while keeping power consumption to a very low level. This enables one of ordinary skill in the art to build portable devices in accordance with the present inventions that use small batteries 100 200 mAh which can last for at least 2 or 3 weeks before being recharged or swapped. In step on detection of connection drop i.e. disconnection transceiver system attempts to reconnect in step . For example when a connection is dropped while the system is in sleep mode or sniff mode a BLUETOOTH system can automatically generate an event indicating connection drop. In the base and or remote devices of the present invention upon the BLUETOOTH system indicating a connection drop either the base and or the remote will attempt to reconnect to one another or an alarm will be triggered in the base and or the remote as illustrated by issuance of an alarm in step . For a mobile phone a connection drop is generally due to one of the followings 

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand from the foregoing that the firmware of the BLUETOOTH system can be programmed to include instructions to reconnect and or to trigger an alarm in accordance with the present invention. Automatic reconnection minimizes false alarms and makes the systems of the present invention more reliable and easy to use. An exemplary benefit of the automatic reconnect feature is that when a user comes within proximity of the mobile phone from out of range the alarm automatically shuts off without requiring any additional input from the user.

Furthermore the alarm when activated may go on and off periodically following a first short period however after a predetermined period of alarming the periodic short period may be changed to a periodic long period so that the system battery is not drained quickly.

In another embodiment automatic reconnect can be used to trigger an audible alarm for indicating a paired device has come into proximity.

In an embodiment of the present inventions the BLUETOOTH system will generate an indication or message on detection of a connection drop. For example firmware running on a BLUETOOTH chipset or on a virtual machine which in turn runs on a BLUETOOTH chipset can receive or capture that disconnect indication or message. The present invention includes programming that instructs one or more responses to a disconnect indication. For example the program will instruct a reconnection attempt and or instruct issuance of an alarm. One of ordinary skill in the art can use market available development tools to write programming to perform the desired functions. It has been discovered by the present inventor that the disconnect event indicator is reliable for detecting that a monitored device is outside a desired range. The claimed invention has an automatic reconnect attempt feature so that upon detection of a disconnect event reconnection is attempted this can avoid many false alarms. Preferably in an embodiment an alarm instruction is not given until at least one active reconnect attempt is made and fails. Upon the alarm issuing periodic reconnect efforts are made and upon reconnection the alarm will not continue. Furthermore the claimed invention has a sleep mode that the user can initiate to prevent the alarm mode. Many PED devices on the market only allow one BLUETOOTH device to be connected at any time and this creates conflict with PAAD . The sleep mode allows the user to put PAAD in sleep mode in order to connect other BLUETOOTH devices to PED for a duration of time. For example if the user wishes to use a headset the user can put PAAD in sleep mode before using the headset. After the duration of time elapses PAAD automatically resumes operation. If the sleep mode is not ON and the user activates a Bluetooth headset with some mobile phones PAAD may start alarm when the headset is ON and the headset operation may be interrupted due to PAAD trying to reconnect. Avoidance of false alarms makes the invention more convenient for the user.

In an embodiment the automatic reconnection feature enables the user to locate lost keys that are connected to PAAD of the present inventions. Turning the mobile phone off automatically triggers an alarm on the key chain device and helps one to locate the keys.

Referring again to the Figures upon a monitored PED leaving a desired proximity processor of transceiver system can start a buzzer a vibrator or a sound system. Processor of transceiver system can also activate LEDs. An example of an audible warning message could loudly state Your phone is no longer in authorized area . In a preferred embodiment after an alarm is issued in step system regularly attempts to reconnect with the monitored device.

Turning now to the flowchart illustrates the steps involved in detecting that a portable electronic device is outside a desired range and for transmitting or receiving voice.

Since most people prefer to limit the number of devices they carry on them this preferred embodiment allows adding BLUETOOTH headset functionality to PAAD . When speaker is folded pulled pushed twisted rolled slid around bearing the system automatically functions as a BLUETOOTH headset. Speaker can also pivot roll or slide around bearing in order to provide better fit and comfort.

When speaker is unfolded pulled slid . . . the system is a flat device that can be carried as a key chain. The system automatically functions as a PAAD key chain that monitors proximity to a PED and issues alarm in case PED is not within proximity. PAAD can either use SPP or HFP when in alarm mode. PAAD connects with capsule for easy carrying as a key chain. This design allows the user 

In another embodiment the microphone comprises an extendable arm. The extendable arm can fold rotate or slide. This allows for a smaller size for the main part as well as good microphone voice capture capability.

In another embodiment the battery is removed from the main body of the device and placed in a second part such as a lid. This makes the BLUETOOTH headset lighter and smaller considering that a battery generally accounts for more than 60 of components volume. When inserted into the lid unit the capacitor onboard the main body recharges.

In step the system is in voice mode. The user may select voice mode by folding pulling sliding twisting speaker . In step the system receives voice from PED and sends it to its onboard speaker. In step the system sends voice from an onboard microphone to PED. The system uses HFP protocol to send voice to from PED.

Turning now to the flowchart illustrates initiating the proximity access and or alarm device. In step PAAD enters pairing mode. In step visual indication center can indicate pairing mode using a combination of LED effects for example alternating colored LEDs. When transceiver system is set to discoverable mode in accordance with step the user uses a second BLUETOOTH PED to be monitored to search for BLUETOOTH devices in range and to select the PAAD from the search list.

When the user initiates a pairing request as shown in step PAAD receives a pairing request from a second device and requests a PIN code. On successful pairing in step PAAD obtains the BLUETOOTH address of second device and stores it in memory as shown by step . Transceiver system changes to non discoverable mode and visual information center changes to normal mode.

In another embodiment after pairing transceiver system may send a file to second BLUETOOTH device using OPP profile. This file can be one or more promotional files such a brochures music video or application software such as a driver a game a client application etc.

Turning now to the flowchart illustrates an alternative embodiment using an application onboard the monitored device. The client application is used to configure PAAD . In step an application running on PED obtains configuration parameters. Configuration parameters include digital keys passwords as well as operation hours operation days buzzer type buzzer volume buzzer duration range and alarm type. PAAD is connected to PED through an interface cable that connects USB or LPT port on the PED to communication center on PAAD .

The configuration parameters can be supplied through an application or through a remote administration console and are stored or flashed onboard PAAD in step and can be used to change the properties or the program of PAAD .

On detection of a connection drop PAAD periodically attempts to reconnect and on failure activates an alarm. In an embodiment the range of PAAD is less than about 15 meters less than about 20 meters or less than about 4 meters.

In another embodiment on detection of a connection drop PED periodically attempts to reconnect and on failure activates an alarm. In an embodiment the range of the PED is less than about 15 meters less than about 20 meters or less than about 4 meters.

In another embodiment PAAD can pair with PED and also with a number of other PAAD s. The original PAAD is configured so that it will not alarm if any of PED or the other PAADs are within proximity.

This allows the user to place some of the other PAADs at known locations such as around the house or office. This would prevent PAAD from providing a false alarm when the user is around know locations or to cover some blind spots.

In another embodiment proximity access and or alarm device has a PC lock insert that is used to lock the system to the side of a computer laptop or attaches to a laptop carry case. The alarm onboard proximity access and or alarm device is triggered when the laptop is more than a predetermined distanced from a mobile phone that has a paired BLUETOOTH system. Therefore it prevents the laptop from being lost forgotten or stolen. Preferably the alarm is triggered when the PC and the mobile phone are less than 10 meters apart.

Turning now to the flowchart illustrates an alternative embodiment for providing secure access to encrypted data.

The user starts an application to access sensitive data in step . The user enters a password in step and if validated in step PED establishes a secure Bluetooth 2 way wireless connection with PAAD in step .

In a preferred embodiment PAAD stores a part of a private key. Also the message sent by PED may contain an obfuscation formula for example a large random number and a code for an obfuscation formula.

 r is a random string or number. For example a byte string or number. Function f may be ADD DELETE MULTIPLY SHIFT ONE BIT THEN ADD AND OR NAND NOR APPEND REVERSE THEN ADD COMBINE BIT . . . .

Function f may be applied to r and to oppK and the result of the function is sent to PED. PAAD must be programmed with the codes cf and associated obfuscation transformation.

PED awaits receipt of key in step in real time i.e. within a predetermined period such as 0.5 second or less than 1 second .

The application may extract a second part of private key from pre known positions of the user password and use the first part and second part to form a private key. In this case at initiation of a user password the user is given some codes that he she must use as part of a personal password and at specific positions. These codes represent part of the private key. For example the user is given a choice for the first 5 digits of a password and is instructed to use 3 specific digits at the end. Another example is the user must use 4 specific digits at the front and 4 6 own digits next. Another example is the user is given a specific password etc. . . . .

In a preferred embodiment the user is asked for password the first time sensitive data is requested but after that authentication is done wirelessly in real time without requesting information from the user thus the process is unobtrusive to the user.

It is important to note that the key is generated in real time every time encrypted data is requested and that the key is not stored in memory for a long period more than the time required to decrypt the data and is not stored on data storage device.

If user requests more data the key is generated again and more data is decrypted. Furthermore if the user requests a data volume larger than a predetermined amount then only predetermined amount is decrypted. Also if the user requests more data than available RAM memory then only volume of data that can be kept in available RAM memory is decrypted. This ensures that decrypted data is never stored on data storage device.

PED can also request a digital key from PAAD . If a positive response is received user access to PED is authorized and if not user access is denied.

For example on user activating a mobile phone or a firearm device the mobile phone will check that PAAD is within proximity. If confirmed the phone is unlocked and the user does not have to enter a password.

Another example is on user pressing a keyboard key the computer will check that PAAD is within vicinity. If confirmed the computer will automatically log the user in and the user does not have to enter a password in the Windows password screen. In this example the wireless range of PAAD may be reduced to minimum range. A Class 3 Bluetooth transceiver may be used or the antenna may be removed so that PAAD has minimum range. If the computer finds more than one authorized user in its vicinity the computer may ask the user for further authentication or challenge questions.

In another embodiment a sensitive information application onboard mobile phone for example checks that PAAD is within proximity. If confirmed the user is granted access to the application or data can be decrypted.

In another embodiment on user trying to access a protected address such as a URL or link a protected file an encrypted file an encrypted record or a protected database an application program running on said paired PED sends a message to said PAAD requesting a digital key. The message may include an address for which a password is sought. Said PAAD automatically sends said digital key. Said digital key may be input in the appropriate fields for authentication or decryption.

In case of unauthorized access the data will be encrypted and cannot be opened unless in the absence of PAAD which supplies a part of the private key and of the user who supplies a password containing another part of the private key. Furthermore viruses Trojan Horses and spywares are ineffective because the data on the storage device or solid state memory is encrypted.

The present invention also secures content onboard the portable electronic device. It presents a comprehensive solution that ensures that content is protected to a maximum level and cannot be tempered with. This solution involves minimum effort on the part of the user and ensures minimum risk of exposure in case of a theft of a personal electronic device or a proximity access and or alarm device occurs.

Public key infrastructure PKI ensures that people are who they say they are and also proves that documents haven t been tampered with.

Since the present invention seeks to protect PED as well as data onboard PED Public Key infrastructure PKI is used to generate a set of Public Key and Private Key unique for each user. A proximity access and or alarm device PAAD is assigned to each user for storing the Public Key or alternatively the Private Key and an application driver program chipset plug in file manager data base manager containing the Private Key or alternatively the Public Key is installed on the user PED.

Sensitive data on PED storage medium hard drive solid state memory Flash network drive CD Rom Zip drive Bluetooth drive is kept encrypted at all time using Private Key or alternatively the Public Key . A hash may be generated and stored every time the data is updated.

On user request to read data a request is made to PAAD to get the Public Key and the requested data is decrypted using the key. The requested data is presented through an authorized application. The hash may be generated again and compared with the stored hash key to ensure the data has not been tempered with.

When the user request data the hash key for the data may be validated against the old hast key to ensure the data has not been tempered with.

Turning to the flowchart illustrates the operation of a Bluetooth key. In step a user activates a button onboard PAAD . In step PAAD established a Bluetooth connection with access point. Access point may be any door lock vault . . . . In step the access point validates the public key. If validated in step access point authorizes access in step and activates lock mechanism in step .

Recovery strategy when the owner of the lost of stolen PAAD reports the lost or stolen device the administrator or the user can 

However since the user Private Key is stored on the lost stolen PAAD it is a better procedure to also 

In another preferred embodiment 2 PAAD devices are used to secure a PED and data onboard. A first PAAD is carried by the user as a keychain or badge and is used to authenticate access to data and decrypt data onboard PED based on user proximity to PED. A second PAAD is attached to PED carry case and is used to monitor proximity to first PAAD and alarm when said proximity is breached.

In another embodiment PAAD includes an encryption decryption chipset for running public private encryption to secure communication between PED and PAAD .

The administrator generates a set of unique private key and public key for a user in step . The administrator can be a person or an automatic program. The private key is flashed on PAAD in step and then stored in a safe place in step . The public key is used to encrypt data that is stored on a data storage device and accessed using PED in step . The public key is also used to encrypt information that is sent to PED either through network download email flash drive CD DVD or any other means. The administrator may install an application on PED to view the sensitive data in step . The PED and PAAD are paired in step . The PED and associated PAAD are transferred to the final user in step . Traditionally The PED and PAAD are sent separately.

Several keys may be stored on PAAD . These keys can be used to access multiple secured applications or multiple data within an application. Different keys can also govern different access privileges such as read write delete modify for different pieces of data.

If the user requires access to more than one PED the public keys for all those computers can be flashed on PAAD and PAAD is paired to those PEDs.

The private key is stored on a device that is on the user most of the time such as a badge or a key chain thus reducing the risk of theft of the key if the PED is stolen. This is in contrast to a USB key which must be kept with the PED when it is used and can be stolen with it.

On user request to update save write sensitive data on storage medium if the user is granted write privilege data is automatically encrypted using the Public Key and written to storage medium. The hash key is regenerated and stored. The write privileges may be obtained from PAAD . In case the PED is stolen PED is lost a Trojan Horse is installed onboard PED a virus impostor unauthorized user tries to access the data onboard PED the sensitive data will be encrypted and will be very difficult to decrypt.

This invention consists of event based Real time decryption on the fly of a fixed size set of data with no storing of decrypted data on disk using a FOB that comprises only a single Bluetooth transceiver IC module or chip. The FOB contains no other transceiver no transmitter receiver not other processor than the arm processor of the BLUETOOTH IC no RFID no GPS receiver no GSP modem no pager modem no LCD no other memory besides the memory of the transceiver module. BLUETOOTH ICs are generally available from CSR Broadcom or other manufacturers and comprise a small RISC processor limited RAM ROM or Flash memory.

The decryption can be driven by events such as a user scrolling down on a page the user opening a file the user searching a record the user clicking on a record or any user event. In a preferred embodiment the functionality is built into Application Programming Interfaces APIs and supplied to programmers. The programmers will choose where the validation points take place either on initiation on a record by record basis on a size basis on a time basis or a button click basis on a user basis time of day type of data or any logical point.

In another preferred embodiment we combine a physical key with public key private key security with headset functionality to provide the next generation key that not only opens doors car door home door garage door vault door but also provides headset voice capability. The motivation behind this is 

In a preferred embodiment the key chain with PAAD functionality is integrated with a headset piece. The headset piece is rotating so that the key can be flat when it is not inserted in the ear and can have the shape of a headset when folded. PAAD can include a metal key to be used in case onboard battery is out of charge.

In another embodiment PAAD can charge its battery from a vehicle s ignition system whereby when PAAD is placed in the ignition system it recharges.

Further for more security the user may provide biographic authentication such as be not limited to voice recognition password entry retinal scan finger print or other information.

Since most people carry a wallet a mobile phone and keys PAAD provides a user with valuable all in one features and at the same time does not require the user to carry and extra device all this thanks to Bluetooth. The features include 

The details of certain embodiments of the present inventions have been described which are provided as illustrative examples so as to enable those of ordinary skill in the art to practice the inventions. The summary figures abstract and further details provided are not meant to limit the scope of the present inventions but to be exemplary. Where certain elements of the present inventions can be partially or fully implemented using known components only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention are described and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components are omitted so as to avoid obscuring the invention. Further the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the components referred to herein.

The inventions are capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways and as such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present inventions. Therefore the claims should be regarded as including all equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following claims are a part of the detailed description of the invention and should be treated as being included in this specification.

