---

title: Method and system for test automation and dynamic test environment configuration
abstract: A method and system of an embodiment may provide a user interface enabling automated testing of a network device. The automated testing may include specifying a network device to be tested, specifying a network technology for testing the network device, specifying a client of the network device, configuring network connectivity for the network device, and enabling execution by the client of a network device of a test action. Configuring network connectivity may include dynamically configuring a network to include the specified network technology and the specified network device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515015&OS=08515015&RS=08515015
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08515015
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080509
---
Software and hardware testing personnel are challenged with reducing testing time and expense. Testing and quality assurance personnel are also faced with finding ways and methods to improve testing accuracy ensure software and hardware quality and to ensure compatibility of software and hardware with other products or systems. Software and hardware testing may test a product in a complex environment such as a complex multi faceted network in order to simulate actual product usage and performance.

Testing hardware or software in a network environment may require multiple components as well as significant configuration of hardware software and network resources. Testing hardware or software for a network service provider a network operator or a network owner may require testing not only of hardware and software owned by a network service provider but also hardware and software owned by a user. This may greatly increase the types manufacturers models and versions of software and hardware required to be tested. Additionally hardware and software may vary for each type of network service offered. A service provider may be under pressure to rush to support the latest hardware software update upgrades and other components used by clients or other network users. The challenge to accurately test an increasing number of complex configurations while ensuring the accuracy and thoroughness of the testing may be significant.

An exemplary embodiment provides a test automation and dynamic test environment configuration system to one or more testers test leads or other quality assurance personnel. The test automation and dynamic test environment configuration system may enable a user to automate one or more portions of testing and test environment configuration.

Referring to a test automation and dynamic test environment configuration system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is illustrated. System illustrates an exemplary system for test automation and dynamic test configuration. It is noted that System is a simplified view of a network and may include additional elements that are not depicted. As illustrated network may represent a management or administrative network connecting one or more testing environments. Network clients and may be communicatively coupled to network via network paths and and network connectivity device . Network clients and may be communicatively coupled to network via additional network paths. For example network client is depicted as being communicatively coupled to network via network path . Additional devices may be communicatively coupled to network . Network element may be a testing server which may facilitate testing and configuration of one or more test components. Testing database may be a database or other storage communicatively coupled to network . Testing interface may be a computer communicatively coupled to network which may provide an interface for a user of system . Network may represent a network utilized for testing. Network may be communicatively coupled to tested network elements and via network paths and . Network connectivity device may be communicatively coupled to tested network elements and via network paths and . Network clients and may be communicatively coupled to network via network paths and and network connectivity device . Additional devices may be communicatively coupled to network . Network elements and may be servers or other network devices providing one or more network services to a user of network .

Tested network elements and may be devices that a network owner operator user or service provider desires to test. Tested network elements may be Customer Premises Equipment CPE such as but not limited to a broadband router a modem a set top box a digital video recorder a voice over IP analog telephone adapter a wireless access point and an Optical Network Terminal ONT . Customer premises equipment may include equipment of a customer or a network service provider which may be similar to equipment which may be located at a customer location and may provide or utilize network connectivity or network services. Tested network elements and may be wireline phones cellular phones mobile phones or satellite phones Personal Digital Assistants PDA computers handheld MP3 players handheld video players personal media players watches gaming devices televisions or other devices capable of utilizing one or more network services. Equipment located at a network service provider s location may also be tested.

Network paths and may be one or more network connections utilized to test a tested network element s performance security and compatibility with one or more network technologies. For example network paths and may be network connections utilizing Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line ADSL Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line SDSL Very High Speed DSL VDSL Single Pair High Speed Digital Subscriber Line G.SHDSL Fiber To The Premises FTTP cable modem broadband leased line Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN dial up satellite wireless networking broadband over power lines IP over coaxial cable a Multimedia Over Coax Alliance MoCA compliant technology or other network technologies. Although network paths and are depicted connecting to network in some embodiments network paths and may enable connectivity to other networks. In some embodiments separate network paths may be utilized for testing and testing control. For example network paths and may be connections utilized for testing and network paths and may be network paths utilized for testing control.

Network connectivity device may be a router a switch or other network connectivity device. Network connectivity device may enable a Virtual Local Area Network VLAN a Virtual Private Network VPN and or a Virtual Private LAN Service VPLS . Network connectivity device may enable the connection of a network client to a plurality of tested network devices via the creation of a VLAN. Network connectivity device may be dynamically configurable which may enable a client to utilize different tested network devices depending on the configuration of a VLAN. For example network connectivity device may be configured such that network client is on the same VLAN as network element while network client is on a separate VLAN with network element . Network connectivity device may thus enable the dynamic configuration of multiple testing environments containing one or more network clients tested network elements and or network paths. Network connectivity device may dynamically configure ports or other interfaces such as ports connected to network paths and to enable the configuration of one or more VLANs VPNs or other dynamically configured testing environments.

Networks and may be one or more Local Area Networks LANs Wide Area Networks WAN the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit transfer and or reception of data to and or from one or more network elements. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of network clients and or network elements. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of a network client or a network element.

Network clients and network connectivity device and tested network elements and may transmit and or receive data to and or from networks and representing testing data. The testing data may be transmitted and or received utilizing a standard telecommunications protocol or a standard networking protocol. For example one embodiment may utilize Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In other embodiments the testing data may be transmitted and or received utilizing other Voice Over IP VoIP protocols. For example test data may also be transmitted and or received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol internet Protocols TCP IP or other protocols and or systems suitable for transmitting and receiving test data.

Network paths and may be wireless connections or may utilize cabled network or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber optic connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Network paths and may use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g and 802.11n. One or more network elements may also be connected to network and or network via protocols for a wired connection such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3.

Network elements and may be one or more servers or server like devices such as a Session Initiation Protocol SIP server a FTP server a web server an application server a DHCP server a media server a VPN server and a gaming server. Network elements and may include one or more processors not shown for recording transmitting receiving and or storing data. Although network elements and are depicted as individual servers it should be appreciated that the contents of a single network element may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of servers or server like devices and may be connected to one or more data storage systems. For example network element may be combined with testing database . Additionally portions of network elements and functionality may be implemented on a client such as network client .

Network elements and may be servers which may be utilized in testing. For example network element may be a FTP server containing downloadable files of known file sizes types or content. Network clients may be configured to connect to network element to download and or upload one or more files to test throughput and other performance or usability indicators.

Network clients and may be computers phone dialers personal digital assistants or other devices capable of sending test actions and or receiving testing instructions. Network clients and may receive transmit and or generate test data. Network clients and may perform testing actions such as transmitting or receiving data utilizing tested network element and or tested network element . For example tested network element and or may be a broadband gateway such as a Digital Subscriber Line DSL modem. Network client may be a computer sending and receiving data video audio or telephony information via one or more tested network elements to ensure compatibility performance security and other quality assurance indicators of a tested network element.

Network client may test hardware of a tested network element and or software associated with a tested network element. Associated software may include operating systems BIOS firewalls security software gaming software and other applications. A network client may test compatibility of associated software such as a firewall associated with a broadband access device with network applications and services. For example network client may be a Personal Computer PC running Windows XP. Network element may be a DSL gateway and network path may be a DSL connection. Network connectivity device may be a switch configured to place network client and network element on the same virtual LAN. Network client may ensure that firewall software associated with network element does not interfere with certain network services such as access to email. Other aspects of network element tested may include but are not limited to throughput latency Network Address Translation NAT network address assignment and security. Network address assignment tests may verify a tested network products compatibility with Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE static address assignment methods and or other address assignment methods. Security tests may include port scanning virus scanning configuration verification software patch level verification and other security measures. Security testing may also include known vulnerability testing.

Network clients and may be different hardware platforms and or operating systems such as PCs Macs Unix boxes or other platforms. Network clients and may include different patch levels application software and configuration settings. Network clients and may be imaged upgraded patched and or configured to enable tests which require a different platform or version of a platform. Network clients and may utilize virtualization to emulate a variety of software and hardware platforms. Testing may utilize a virtual machine a virtual platform a virtual system and or other virtual resources. Virtualization may emulate multiple clients concurrently and may facilitate testing.

Network clients and may contain multiple network interfaces. Multiple network interfaces such as multiple network cards in a PC may enable testing control to access a client during testing using a first network interface without affecting testing network traffic on a second network interface. Multiple network interfaces may enable a platform emulating multiple clients to provide separate network interfaces for each client. Network clients and may utilize network paths and for testing and may contain additional network connections such as network path for control or monitoring of testing. For example network client may utilize network path and a separate network interface to enable monitoring of test results without affecting network test traffic on network path . In some embodiments testing data and control data may share a network interface.

Network element may be a testing server which may facilitate test automation and dynamic test environment configuration. Network element may enable configuration of the test environment including but not limited to configuring a virtual LAN setting one or more parameters of a network technology setting a service profile of a network element enabling network address assignment creating an account setting a permission and or configuration of a client. Configuration of a client may include imaging a client downloading a script to a client patching a client upgrading a client loading software on a client changing a setting on a client and or executing a script on a client. Setting one or more parameters of a network technology and or setting a service profile of a network element may include setting an upload and or a download speed specifying a quality of service specifying one or more network addresses and or setting other network connectivity attributes.

Network element may enable scheduling of one or more tests. Network element may manage the use of one or more testing resources such as network clients and network connectivity device tested network elements and and network paths and . Scheduling may enable prioritization of tests and may enable prioritized test to reserve one or more testing resources. Scheduling may permit concurrent tests to run in a test environment and may avoid conflicting demands for testing resources. In some embodiments certain resources may be shared such as a DHCP server or an FTP server and sharing resources may facilitate concurrent tests. Other resources such as a network client may be scheduled and may run tests sequentially. One or more testers or other users may use an interface such as testing interface to interact with network element and or other network accessible test resources. Testers may schedule tests according to a desired priority. In some embodiments network element may schedule tests according to availability of one or more network resources. For example a first test may require network client network element and network path . A second test may require network client network element and network path . Network element may give priority to the first test if it determines that network client is scheduled to be available prior to network client . Network element may enable cancellation of a scheduled test prioritization of a scheduled test viewing a scheduled test cancellation of a running test rescheduling of a test that encountered an error and reporting on scheduled tests. Network element may apply one or more business rules when scheduling a test and or configuring a test environment. For example network element may determine which equipment may be used with which network connections which equipment may be used with which network speeds or settings and other compatibility or policy issues. Business rules may also determine which types of network services such as streaming video are offered with which equipment and or which network technologies.

Network element may enable handling one or more errors resulting from a test action. Error handling may include notification to one or more users retrying of a test action cancellation of a test action rescheduling a test action and cancellation of a test action. Network element may also provide notification of a test result test completion or other test conditions specified by a user. Notifications may be sent via email text message page a user display a printout or via other electronic means. Network element may also provide recording reporting and or analysis of one or more test results. Network element may utilize testing database for storage of test data including test scripts configuration data test results test schedules and other data facilitating test automation and dynamic test environment configuration. Network element may contain a web server and may provide a user interface such as a web interface to testing interface . One or more operations performed by network element may be performed by other network elements such as network elements and testing interface or by network clients and . Modules and or network elements for facilitating test automation and dynamic test environment configuration are discussed in more detail with reference to below.

Testing database may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to network elements and . Testing database may utilize a Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks RAID tape disk a Storage Area Network SAN or other computer accessible storage.

Testing interface may enable a tester a test lead or other users to view modify schedule and cancel tests. Testing interface may enable a user to view testing reports statistics available test resources test resource configuration and other test related information. Testing interface may be a thin client or a thick client. In some embodiments testing interface may be a web client. In one or more embodiments testing interface may perform one or more of the functionalities described in reference to network element above.

Reports on testing activity may be stored according to International Standards Organization ISO standards. Testing interface may enable test results to be compared with additional test data and may enable the generation of graphs statistics and other analytical tools for understanding and reviewing test results. One or more network elements such as network element may be a web server and may enable a web based testing interface. Test results may be viewed as web pages and may contain various graphics colors or indicators to facilitate the understanding of test results. For example test errors may be displayed in red test successes may be displayed in green or other indicators may be used.

Testing interface may enable a user to perform test environment configuration. Testing interface may provide a graphical user interface containing dropdowns menus buttons text fields and other controls or inputs which may enable a user to configure a test environment manage one or more tests and or view test results reports and statistics. For example a tester may wish to test customer premises equipment such as a DSL modem. The tester may choose from a dropdown a menu may input a name or may otherwise specify the desired equipment to test. The tester may then specify a corresponding network technology such as a DSL connection. Other variables and test conditions may be specified including but not limited to a download speed an upload speed and other network connection parameters. A tester may further use testing interface to specify a network client for the customer premises equipment. Testing interface may enable the specification of a hardware platform a software platform and other client details. For example a tester may choose between a Mac a PC a Unix box and other platforms. The tester may then specify an operating system such as Mac OS X Leopard Windows XP Redhat Enterprise Linux 5 Desktop or other operating systems. Testing interface may enable a tester to view and or set other details such as a minimum amount of RAM or disk space available on a client a patch level and or one or more applications required on a client. In some embodiments testing interface may enable a tester to specify a client which may be a specialized device adapted to test a particular network service. For example a programmable phone dialer or other telephony equipment may be utilized to test a voice over IP connection or a digital video recorder may be utilized to test a downloadable or streaming video service.

Testing interface may enable a tester or other user to specify a server or other network device to facilitate testing. A user or other tester may specify a server for a network client and or tested equipment to ping to test latency and connectivity between a network client and or tested equipment and the server. A user may utilize testing interface to specify a FTP server to download files from or to upload files to in order to test bandwidth. Testing interface may test connectivity by utilizing additional network diagnostic tools such as traceroute. Other network elements such as but not limited to web servers media servers mail servers databases firewalls VPNs and security vulnerability servers may also be utilized for testing. In some embodiments one or more servers may be specified by a testing server such as network element in response to a user s selection of a particular test type.

If a user specifies a client configuration different from a client specified or different from an available client testing interface may utilize one or more additional network elements to configure a client according to the specifications. For example testing interface may work with network element to enable imaging a client loading a disk image file on a client installing a test script on a client patching a client upgrading a client or performing other client configuration actions. Other network elements may receive information from testing interface which may be utilized to further configure the test environment. For example network connectivity device may receive information prompting it to configure a VLAN in response to a user s specification of a particular network client and customer premises equipment.

Testing interface may enable a user to record and play back one or more testing actions. For example a user may record sending and or receiving an email with an attachment. The action may then be loaded as a script onto a client and may be replayed one or more times in order to test email compatibility issues. Other actions such as requesting a large database query from a networked accessible database downloading video audio or other media files requesting streaming media connections and videoconferencing may also be recorded and replayed on one or more network clients. Testing interface may enable a user to record the desired test action and may work with one or more additional network elements to ensure that a client has a compatible application stack is properly configured and is enabled to play back the recorded test action. An application stack may include not only an operating system but also client utilities applications and tools.

In one or more embodiments testing interface may enable a user to specify multiple clients for a desired test scenario. Testing interface may work with one or more additional network elements to configure multiple clients or to configure a single platform to emulate multiple virtual clients. This may enable a user to test one or more pieces of customer premises equipment connected to a simulated LAN environment.

Testing interface may have different levels of users with different functionality permissions and displays available to each. For example a first level may schedule one or more tests. The first level user may be able to view and manage their own tests. A second level user such as a test lead or a manager may be able to view test results for multiple users. Testing interface may provide a login or other security measures which may verify an identify of a user and may provide functionality corresponding to the permissions of the user. Permissions may be set at a user level a group level a test level a test environment level a test type a network technology type or based on other user test and or test resource attributes.

In one or more embodiments testing may be performed on network elements such as mail servers media servers FTP servers DHCP servers web servers routers switches hubs firewalls VPNs and other network accessible devices and software. Testing interface may enable the specification of and the configuration of such network elements.

The various components of system as shown in may be further duplicated combined and or integrated to support various applications and platforms. Additional elements may also be implemented in the systems described above to support various applications.

Referring to a module for managing a test automation and dynamic test environment configuration system is depicted in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. As illustrated depicts a test automation and configuration module . Test automation and configuration module may contain one or more components including test scheduling and resource management module test analysis and reporting module network configuration module error handling module equipment configuration module and other modules to facilitate automated testing and dynamic test environment configuration. Modules may be contained on one or more network elements such as network elements testing database network clients and and on other network accessible elements. Test automation and configuration module may access one or more network elements to send or receive test or control data. Test automation and configuration module may utilize network paths reserved for management or control channels such as network path and may avoid interfering with bandwidth or network paths reserved for testing.

Test scheduling and resource management module may facilitate test scheduling of one or more test actions. Testing scheduling and resource management module may present a calendar or other display showing scheduled testing to a user via testing interface . Test scheduling and resource management module may facilitate the scheduling viewing cancellation and monitoring of one or more tests test environments and or test resources. Test scheduling and resource management module may track test resources such as network paths network connectivity devices tested network elements servers network clients and other resources. Test scheduling and resource management module may utilize storage such as testing database to track resource status test plans test definitions test results and other test related data. Test scheduling and resource management module may receive input from a user interface such as testing interface or may receive input from other network elements. Test scheduling and resource management module may query one or more resources to determine a resource status. Test scheduling and resource management module may facilitate concurrent testing and efficient use of testing resources.

Test analysis and reporting module may receive transmit analyze and report on test data. Test analysis and reporting module may receive near real time data or may access stored data Reports and or analysis may be standard reports scheduled as part of a testing process or may be customized reports and or analysis requested by a user. Reports may be provided and delivered in variety of formats including email web electronic message printout and other formats. Reports may include data and or analysis from one or more tests.

Network configuration module may enable the configuration of one or more network environments. Network configuration may include the configuration of a Virtual Local Area Network VLAN a Virtual Private Network VPN and or a Virtual Private LAN Service VPLS . Network configuration may also include configuring a network address or network address assignment properties of one or more clients configuring other network connectivity settings of one or more clients configuring network settings of equipment to be tested configuring network settings of servers and configuring network settings of routers hubs switches repeaters wireless access devices and other network connectivity devices. Network configuration module may provision or configure network paths such as routing tables circuits channels links or other network paths or network path configuration information. Network configuration module may receive information specifying a desired test environment and may configure network paths a VLAN and or other settings and components to provide connectivity among elements of the specified test environment. Network configuration module may enable one or more business rules to be applied when configuring a network environment. Network configuration module may ensure that compatible network technologies are tested with the devices to be tested that compatible network settings are chosen for a device and that other business rules are applied. For example network configuration module may provide an error if a tester selects a DSL router and attempts to test it with a fiber optic network connection. In some embodiments lists of available resources in a user interface may dynamically update to display compatible permissible and available network resources when a tester is configuring a test environment utilizing network configuration module .

Error handling module may respond to one or more errors of a test environment. Error handling module may enable error trapping of an error and one or more error handling actions. Error handling module may retry a test action resulting which previously resulted in an error cancel a test action previously resulting in a test error or provide reporting or notification of a test error.

Equipment configuration module may enable the configuration of one or more test components. Equipment configuration module may image configure update upgrade and or otherwise alter the settings of network clients and network connectivity device tested network elements and network elements and and or other network resources. Equipment configuration module may provide test scripts testing programs recorded test actions test tools or other resources to network clients or other network elements. Equipment configuration module may create accounts grant permission allocate space or otherwise prepare testing resources.

Test automation and configuration module may contain fewer or greater numbers of modules. Modules may be combined. Modules may be local or remote to one another and may be implemented on different network elements. Modules may be implemented in software and or hardware. Test automation and configuration module may interface with one or more external systems and or resources. Test automation and configuration module may query external databases files interfaces and or APIs to obtain resources and data for testing.

At block a plurality of network elements to be tested may be provided. For example customer premises equipment network servers network connectivity devices may be provided and or allocated for a test.

At block connectivity for one or more network elements may be provided. In some embodiments one or more network paths routes circuits and or channels may be provisioned configured and or reserved for testing. Bandwidth and other attributes may be verified. Network management utilities may be utilized to determine network element status and availability. One or more testing databases may also be queried such as testing database . In some embodiments network elements such as network elements and may be queried directly to determine status availability and other attributes.

At block automatic configuration of network settings may be enabled. Network elements to be tested may be connected to one or more network connectivity devices such as network connectivity device which may enable the dynamic configuration of one or more test environments for one or more test cases.

At block a plurality of network clients such as network clients and may be provided. Network clients may be representative of equipment currently supported or potential equipment to be supported by a network operator owner or service provider. Network clients may be various platforms with different operating systems hardware and application stacks. Network clients may be remotely configurable.

At block testing software associated with a client may be provided. Testing software may include test scripts recorded test actions load simulators or other test tools.

At block test scheduling may be enabled. Scheduling may include cancellation of a scheduled test and rescheduling of a test. Test scheduling may reserve resources and detect resource conflicts. Test scheduling may enable the scheduling of test according to a priority of a test a submitter of a test the first test with all resources available for it a test with estimated system load a test with an estimated bandwidth usage or other factors.

At block test recording may be enabled. Test results may be stored in ISO standard formats or in other formats. Test results may be stored as XML text a spreadsheet comma separated values one or more database formats or other formats.

At block test analysis and reporting may be enabled. Analysis may enable the comparison of multiple sets of test results. Charting and graphing of one or more test results or of analysis of test results may be enabled. Delivery of test results analysis and other reporting may be enabled via multiple delivery mechanisms including web servers email electronic messages web services and other electronic delivery mechanisms

At block test management may be enabled. Test management may provide one or more user interfaces and or Application Programming Interfaces APIs which may facilitate access to one or more test automation and dynamic test environment configuration components.

At block the item to be tested may be specified. A tester or other user may specify a device or software using a testing interface such as testing interface . A drop down list box combo box menu or other user interface control may present a list of devices and or software. The list may be filtered based on a user a test type permissions resource availability or other factors.

At block a user may specify the network technology to be tested with the software or device being tested. For example the network technology may be Fiber To The Premises FTTP such as FIOS. The networking technology may also be digital subscriber line asymmetric digital subscriber line symmetric digital subscriber line cable modem broadband leased line integrated services digital network dial up satellite wireless networking broadband over power lines and or other networking technologies.

At block a service profile or other network settings may be specified. For example a speed of the network connection may be specified.

At block a network client to be used for testing may be specified. For example network clients or may be specified. A user may specify a hardware platform an operating system an operating system version an operating system patch level one or more applications and or other client attributes. For example a user may specify minimum RAM disk space or other capabilities of a client.

At block a test server may be specified. This may be one or more network elements used during the testing of an item. For example a media server may be utilized to determine a test item s performance in handling streaming video or audio. A test server may also be a security server used to run port scans and or other security tests on an item being tested.

At block one or more test variables may be specified. Test variables may specify a script to be executed a test name a number of tests a duration of tests one or more values to be used in a test script or other details.

At block a user may utilize a testing interface to schedule a test. Tests may be scheduled to run around the clock and may run automatically without tester supervision or interaction. Thus a quality assurance team may schedule tests to run around the clock and seven days a week. The testing team may review the test results during normal working hours. In some embodiments a testing interface may be a web based interface which may be remotely accessible. Testers or other users may schedule the tests during the day and may remotely access them if they are notified of a problem or if they desire to reschedule cancel and or monitor the tests.

At block the test may run. Multiple tests may be run concurrently for one or more users. In some embodiments a user may be able to view test status and feedback as a test runs. For example a user may be able to view commands issued from a network client and the responses received from tested equipment and or one or more network elements.

At block the method may determine if an error has occurred during the running of the test. If an error has occurred the method may continue at block . If no error has occurred the method may continue at block . In some embodiments a maximum wait time may be set for one or more test actions to complete. If a response is not received from a network element or if a test action does not complete within a specified time the test action may timeout. If a timeout or another error occurs it may be handled at block .

At block an error detected during the running of the test may be handled. Error handling may involve reporting errors providing notifications retrying test actions canceling test actions pausing a test process and or rescheduling test actions.

At block the test results may be stored for viewing analysis printing reporting notification and or other usage.

In some embodiments test resources may be centrally located. One or more equipment racks may be utilized to store multiple clients and or multiple devices to be tested. The use of a network connectivity device such as a switch capable of dynamically configuring a VLAN may greatly reduce the amount of cabling and other connections required among test equipment. The use of clients which may be dynamically configured and or virtualized or emulated may improve test resource flexibility and availability while reducing the number of physical equipment required to support testing. A testing database and a testing interface associated with a test automation and dynamic test environment configuration system may facilitate scheduling and resource management while reducing manual device and network configuration effort. Test scheduling and automation may enable a greater amount of testing time as users may not be required to be present during testing. A network accessible interface to a test automation and dynamic test environment configuration system may enable a centrally located system to be remotely accessible to one or more users.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

