---

title: Data over cable service interface specification (DOCSIS) over passive optical network (PON)
abstract: A Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications (DOCSIS) Passive Optical Network (PON) system (DPON) makes optical subscribers appear as cable subscribers. In one embodiment, a Cable Modem (CM) proxy is located in an Optical Line Termination (OLT). The OLT implements a cable modem protocol stack that operates as the CM proxy and communicates with a back office system. The OLT translates the data retrieved by the CM proxy into Optical Network Unit (ONU) recognizable commands, and sends the translated data to the ONU. In a second embodiment, the CM proxy is located in the ONU. The ONU implements the cable modem protocol stack that operates as the CM proxy and communicates with the back office system. The ONU translates the data retrieved by the CM proxy into ONU recognizable commands and sends the translated data to the ONU.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831425&OS=08831425&RS=08831425
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08831425
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080109
---
The Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS environment has several strengths including the ability to manage point to multi point links and support service provider provisioning where subscribers can be added and removed at scale. The DOCSIS protocol has overcome the difficult tasks of managing upstream bandwidth while also effectively supporting Quality of Service QoS and providing many other subscriber applications. DOCSIS also provides a full security infrastructure where packets can be encrypted incoming data checked and Internet Protocol IP address verified. Thus DOCSIS provides a cost effective time tested and reliable technology.

Passive Optical Networks PON are rapidly evolving and may eventually replace traditional wireline access technologies such as Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs . Unfortunately PON protocols do not support the full functionality of DOCSIS.

A Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications DOCSIS Passive Optical Network PON system DPON makes optical subscribers appear as cable subscribers. In one embodiment a Cable Modem CM proxy is located in an Optical Line Termination OLT . The OLT implements a cable modem protocol stack that operates as the CM proxy and communicates with a back office system. The OLT translates the data retrieved by the CM proxy into Optical Network Unit ONU recognizable commands and sends the translated data to the ONU. In a second embodiment the CM proxy is located in the ONU. The ONU implements the cable modem protocol stack that operates as the CM proxy and communicates with the back office system. The ONU translates the data retrieved by the CM proxy into ONU recognizable commands and sends the translated data to the ONU.

The OLT is typically located at a service provider central office head end . The OLT receives Internet Packet IP data from a packet switched Wide Area IP network . The packet data received by OLT is converted into downstream optical signals and broadcast to each premises sharing optical fiber . Upstream signals are combined using a multiple access protocol such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA .

The ONUs are typically located near end user locations generally referred to as customer premises or subscribers. Often the customer premises may be a home or an office. However the customer premises can be located anywhere video voice or data services are needed. The ONUs convert the optical signals carried over the PON cable back into digital packet data. In one example ONUs convert the optical signals into digital Ethernet packets that are sent over an Ethernet cable to different Customer Premise Equipment CPE such as a phone Personal Computer PC and or television Set Top Box STB .

A MSO network or back office provides different network services. For example servers in MSO network may be used for assigning IP addresses providing Time of Day ToD information provisioning network resources operating in a multi media environment and operating a Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP . While the services provided by MSO network are readily available in cable networks many of these services are not supported in PON networks.

There is a need to integrate PON subscribers into the MSO backoffice network as if they were cable modems. However deploying a PON network in an MSO network is more than a protocol definition.

To enable compatibility between the MSO network and the PON network the OLT is managed with a Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications DOCSIS PON DPON system . The DPON system operates Cable Modem Termination System CMTS subscriber management software that acts as a gateway between a Cable Modem Termination System CMTS and PON . The DPON system includes a translator that converts DOCSIS parameters obtained from the MSO network into PON parameters.

The DPON system operates with different PON standards that handle the layer one physical layer connection establishment to the ONUS while allowing the DOCSIS protocol to handle the second and third data link and network layers respectively. This partitioning allows for a clean demarcation of where PON stops and DOCSIS begins.

The DPON system includes a DPON management agent that operates at layers L3 L7 of the Open System Interconnect OSI model. Any combination of EPON drivers GPON drivers or WDM drivers operate at layer 2 layer 1 of the OSI model between the DPON management agent and a physical layer 1 optical PON controller .

The DPON management agent operates a cable modem proxy that conducts DOCSIS cable modem sessions on behalf of the ONUS . The cable modem proxy conducts cable modem registration or post registration services with any one of multiple different servers in the MSO network that are conventionally only used for providing cable network provisioning services.

For example the CM proxy in management agent may conduct a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP session with a DHCP server for discovering an Internet Protocol EP address on behalf of the ONU . The IP address is assigned to the ONU and also used by the OLT when communicating with the ONU .

The CM proxy may also conduct a Trivial File Transfer Protocol TFTP session with a TFTP provisioning server to obtain different DOCSIS service definitions. The service definitions are used for example to assign different Quality of Service QoS parameters to subscribers. The CM proxy may also communicate with a Time of Day ToD server to obtain time of day information on behalf of the ONU . The CM proxy can also communicate with an SNMP server when conducting network management operations and can communicate with a PacketCable Multi Media PCNIM server to register for multi media services. These are just examples of any cable services that can be performed by the CM proxy on behalf of the ONU .

A translation function shown in then translates the information obtained by the cable modem proxy during the registration or post registration sessions into corresponding PON parameters. The PON parameters are then sent to the associated ONUs and or used by EPON GPON or WDM when communicating with the ONUS .

The CMTS stack and CM stack together operate as the cable modem proxy that together communicate with any of the MSO servers described above. Operating both of these DOCSIS stacks and in the OLT effectively allow any of the services normally supported in a cable network to also be used in PON .

A DOCSIS to PON translator is then used for converting any of the parameters obtained by the cable modem proxy into associated PON parameters that can be used by the OLT and ONU . Some of the translated PON parameters are programmed into a PON driver for either communicating with the ONU or sent over the optical cable for configuring the ONU . The PON driver represents any of the EPON GPON or WDM previously shown in . The translated PON parameters may also be used for operating or configuring OLT hardware .

A first DOCSIS to PON translator A converts some of the DOCSIS parameters obtained from the MSO registration sessions that are used by the OLT . For example certain DOCSIS QoS and security information may be used by the OLT for transmitting or denying service for certain types of packet data received over Internet . These OLT related DOCSIS parameters are sent to translator A and converted into PON parameters that are then programmed into the OLT . Accordingly the OLT operates according to these particular QoS and security parameters . This translation is also described in further detail below in .

Other DOCSIS parameters obtained during sessions with MSO network may be sent directly to the CM DOCSIS stack in ONU . In this case the cable modem DOCSIS parameters are sent from the CMTS stack either untranslated or translated to the PON driver . The PON driver uses PON signaling over optical cable to send the cable modern parameters to the ONU . The CM DOCSIS stack communicates messages back through the optical cable and CMTS DOCSIS stack to the MSO network .

For example certain DOCSIS information may be obtained via a handshaking protocol between the CM DOCSIS stack and one or more of the servers in MSO network . These handshaking messages are relayed between the MSO network and CM DOCSIS stack over the DPON management agent and CMTS DOCSIS stack . The CM messages are converted between digital packet data and optical signals by the PON driver and sent to the ONU over optical cable .

The MSO registration session may complete with one or more DOCSIS parameters being obtained by the CM DOCSIS stack . The DOSCIS parameters are sent to a DOCSIS to PON translator B in ONU for converting into corresponding ONU parameters. The converted ONU parameters are then programmed into the ONU by translator B. As mentioned above any of these handshaking operations can alternatively be performed by the CM DOCSIS stack in that is located in the OLT . In that case the DOCSIS parameters are all obtained and translated in the OLT and then programmed into the ONU remotely from the OLT .

The OLT runs CMTS software and possibly the cable modem software previously described in . Therefore the OLT appears as a CMTS to the MSO servers that manage subscribers. The EPON in handles the physical layer connection signaling and replaces the DOCSIS process of initial ranging and station maintenance. The EPON physical layer signaling includes the OLT sending out a discovery gate message that is then responded to by the ONU with a register request message. The OLT replies back to the ONU with register and register gate messages. In response the ONU sends a registration acknowledge message back to the OLT . After the register acknowledge message is sent back to the OLT the ONU and OLT are connected and the CM proxy in is activated.

In cable networks this IP address is used for the management of a cable modem. In the PON network there are different options. In one embodiment the IP address obtained by the CM proxy is sent to the ONU though an Operations Administration and Maintenance OAM channel. The SNMP server in can then communicate directly with the ONU . In another embodiment the IP address stays at the OLT . The OLT then sends OAM messages with SNMP queries embedded in them to the ONU and the CM proxy holds the IP address as a proxy for the ONU .

Referring to after physical layer establishment and address registration other services may be configured by the CM proxy on behalf of the ONU . For example a time of day session can be conducted between the CM proxy and the ToD server to acquire a time parameter. The CM proxy sends a TOD request to the TOD server and receives back a time value in the TOD response. The time information is then used by either the OLT and or sent to the ONU .

In another TFTP session the CM proxy may send a TFTP request for a DOCSIS configuration file download. The TFTP server replies with a TFTP download configuration file . The information in the TFTP file is then translated and used for configuring schedulers classifiers or other features on the OLT and ONU . For example the information in TFTP configuration file may be used to configure Dynamic Bandwidth Allocation DBA for Upstream US Quality of Service QoS between the OLT and ONU .

After the registration process is completed communication links are established between the OLT and the ONU that operate according to the DOCSIS parameters obtained by the CM proxy during sessions and . Both the upstream communications and downstream communications in the optical links may operate according to these DOCSIS parameters. Any CPE may then communicate similarly to any CPE operating behind a cable modem.

Note that there is no need for DOCSIS REG REQ RSP ACK messages as the ONU gets programmed through the OAM channel. While there may be no need to send DOCSIS DSx messages to the ONU the basic concept of a dynamic service can be adopted by EPON GPON and queuing classification rules. These rules can be dynamically created as a result of PC PCMM PacketCable PacketCable Multi Media gates from the PC PCMM server and relayed to the ONU through the Operation and Maintenance Channel OAM channel.

Referring both to in operation the CM proxy participates in a TFTP session as described above in . The CM proxy obtains a TFTP configuration file from the TFTP server that contains DOCSIS parameters . For example the TF IP file may contain a request for a video service at 10 million bits per second Mbps a voice service of 100 thousand bps Kbps and data service of 50 million bits per second Mbps . The CM proxy forwards these QoS parameters from the TFTP file to the DOCSIS to PON translator .

As mentioned above the PON network may not support individual service flows but alternatively may only support a single bit rate for each pipe to an ONU . In this case the translator in operation may convert all of the different DOCSIS service flow rates into a single PON bit rate parameter . For example the translator may sum up all of the different bit rates for the individual DOCSIS services flows associated with a particular ONU . In this example the total summed bit rate for the ONU may be 60.1 Mbps. The translator may then assign different priorities for each of the different types of voice video and data identified in the TFTP file . For example voice data flows may be assigned a highest priority video flows may be assigned a second highest priority and data flows may be assigned a low priority.

The translator may also create a DPON translation table in operation that the OLT uses for handling packets directed to the ONU . For example the DPON translation table created by translator can associate different source addresses with different services flows. If the packets have a destination address associated with the ONU then the OLT assigns priorities to the packets according to the priority values in DPON translation table .

The DPON translation table is loaded into OLT memory in operation . The translator in operation uses PON Application Programmers Interfaces APIs to program the OLT according to the different translated PON parameters . In this example the translator programs the OLT to provide the pipe to ONU at a bit rate of 60.1 Mbps and programs the OLT to use the DPON translation table when assigning priority to packets directed to ONU .

The OLT checks the destination address for received packets. If the packets have an IP source address associated with the ONU the OLT processes the packets according to DPON translation table . For example if the packets have a source address associated with voice data then the OLT assigns the packets a high priority when the voice packets are transferred upstream or downstream with the ONU . Thus the CM proxy in combination with the DOCSIS to PON translator can be used to support DOCSIS service flows in a PON network.

The system described above can use dedicated processor systems micro controllers programmable logic devices or microprocessors that perform some or all of the operations. Some of the operations described above can be implemented in software and other operations can be implemented in hardware.

For the sake of convenience the operations are described as various interconnected functional blocks or distinct software modules. This is not necessary however and there can be cases where these functional blocks or modules are equivalently aggregated into a single logic device program or operation with unclear boundaries. In any event the functional blocks and software modules or features of the flexible interface can be implemented by themselves or in combination with other operations in either hardware or software.

Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention in a preferred embodiment thereof it should be apparent that the invention can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. Claim is made to all modifications and variation coming within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

