---

title: System for providing strategies to reduce the carbon output and operating costs of a workplace
abstract: A system is described for providing strategies to reduce the carbon output and operating cost of a workplace. The system may include a memory, interface, and processor. The memory may store an initial configuration of a workplace and workplace initiatives. The initial workplace configuration may include equipment and travel data items, and each workplace initiative may be associated with a data item and may provide a strategy for reducing the carbon output of the associated data item. The processor may receive the initial configuration from the user and provide workplace initiatives to the user. The processor may receive a selection of an initiative from the user. The processor may process the initial workplace configuration and selected initiative to determine a recommended configuration capable of reducing the carbon output of the data item associated with the selected initiative. The processor may provide the recommended configuration to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812971&OS=08812971&RS=08812971
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08812971
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080624
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 030 040 filed on Feb. 12 2008 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present description relates generally to a system and method generally referred to as a system for providing strategies to reduce the carbon output and operating costs of a workplace and more particularly but not exclusively to providing strategies for reducing the carbon output and operating costs associated with the operation of a workplace.

The costs and carbon impact of energy use are becoming increasingly important to consumers organizations and governments. Organizations may be reassessing their energy use in response to impending regulation high costs and public perception. The energy required to operate the technology used in an organization s workplace may account for a significant portion of the organization s overall energy use. Organizations may be able to reduce their energy costs and carbon impact by migrating to energy efficient workplace technology implementations

A system for providing strategies to reduce the carbon output and operating costs of a workplace may include a memory an interface and a processor. The memory may be connected to the processor and the interface and may store an initial workplace configuration and one or more workplace initiatives. The initial workplace configuration may include one or more data items at least one of the data items being an equipment data item or a travel data item. Each of the workplace initiatives may be associated with one of the data items and may provide a strategy for reducing a carbon output of the associated data item. The interface may be operatively connected to the memory and may be operative to communicate with a user. The processor may be operatively connected to the memory and the interface and may be operative to receive the initial workplace configuration from the user via the interface. The processor may provide one or more workplace initiatives to the user via the interface and receive a selection of a workplace initiative from the user via the interface. The processor may process the initial workplace configuration and the selected workplace initiative to determine a recommended workplace configuration. The recommended workplace configuration may be capable of reducing the carbon output of the data item associated with the selected initiative. The processor may provide the recommended workplace configuration to the user via the interface.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the embodiments and be protected by the following claims and be defined by the following claims. Further aspects and advantages are discussed below in conjunction with the description.

A system and method generally referred to as a system may relate to providing strategies to reduce the carbon output or carbon footprint of a workplace and more particularly but not exclusively to providing strategies for reducing the carbon output and operating costs associated with the operation of a workplace. The principles described herein may be embodied in many different forms.

The system may provide a user with a decision support tool for creating an energy saving roadmap for an organization s technology implementation strategies. The technology implementation strategies may encompass one or more of the organization s workplaces such as offices. The energy saving roadmap may incorporate equipment travel and behavioral initiatives capable of reducing the energy consumption of the workplaces. The system may analyze the roadmap and provide the user with the cost reductions that may be realized by implementing the roadmap. The cost reductions may include electricity cost reductions operating cost reductions and travel cost reductions. The system may also provide the user with the reduction in the carbon output that may be realized by implementing the roadmap. The reductions may be based on user defined forecasts of electricity costs and the amount of carbon generated per kilowatt hour kWh of energy consumed.

The system may allow a user to identify a workplace technology initiative for a workplace and may provide the user with the amount of time required for the cost reductions realized by the initiative to surpass the initial investment of the initiative. The system may also provide the user with additional economic indicators relating to the initiative such as the return on investment of the initiative and a net present value of the initiative.

The system may allow a user to enter an initial technology configuration of one or more workplaces and may provide the user with one or more behavioral initiatives capable of reducing the energy consumption of the workplace. The system may receive a selection of one or more behavioral initiatives from the user and may notify the workers in the workplace of the action required by the selected initiatives. The system may provide the workers with an incentive for performing the action or may re notify the workers for not performing the action. The system may provide the user with a report of the workers in each workplace who have performed the action and those who have not.

The system may suggest technology configurations of an organization s workplaces capable of minimizing the carbon output and operating costs associated with operating the workplaces. Statistical analysis may be used to leverage historical data from case studies of workplaces similar to the organization s workplaces. The system may suggest technology configurations for the workplaces based on the configurations of similar existing workplaces in the historical data. The system may suggest technology configurations that may allow for the organization to become certified under the International Organization for Standardization.

The system may compare the reductions achieved by a user s strategy roadmap against reductions achieved by strategy roadmaps stored in the system s database. The system may assign a relative rating to the user s strategy roadmap indicating how the strategy roadmap compares with other strategy roadmaps in the system. The system may provide a relative rating for both the financial and environmental impact of the user s strategy roadmap. The system may also provide an overall assessment of the financial and environmental impact of the user s strategy roadmap. The system may display a graph comparing the energy savings achieved by the user s strategy roadmap to the energy savings achieved by other strategy roadmaps in the database.

The system may allow an organization to efficiently manage the carbon impact of their workplace technology such as desktops laptops monitors across multiple workplaces. The system may enable an organization to determine the carbon impact of their workplace technology the carbon impact of the employee travel associated with their workplaces the impact of the hazardous materials found in their workplace technology and the amount of trees destroyed by papers used in their workplaces. The system may provide one or more graphs displaying the carbon impact of the organization s workplaces.

The system may include one or more users A N a service provider and an administrator . The users A N may be responsible for maintaining upgrading and or developing the workplace technology configuration of the workplaces of an organization. The service provider may provide an application to the users A N allowing the users A N to view the effects of energy saving strategies or initiatives on the costs associated with operating the workplaces. A workplace initiative may be a technology implementation strategy which reduces the carbon emissions resulting from the operation of the workplace reduces the amount of energy consumed by the operation of the workplace or reduces the cost associated with operating the workplace. The administrator may be a person or an automated process and may be responsible for maintaining a database of workplace technology equipment and existing workplace technology configurations. The workplace technology equipment may be used in the workplace technology configurations of the users A N and the existing workplace technology configurations may be used to provide the users A N with the relative performance of their strategies.

Alternatively or in addition the administrator may be a consultant who provides energy consulting services to one or more clients such as organizations. The administrator may maintain the data associated with each of the organizations utilizing the consulting services of the administrator . The administrator may use the forecasts generated by the system to assist in providing energy consulting services to the organizations.

Alternatively or in addition the administrator may control access permissions of the users A N. The administrator may be able to grant or deny access of the users A N at both a client and a workplace level. The administrator may enable access to the same client for multiple users A N thereby allowing the users A N to collaborate on changes to the same client.

In operation the service provider may provide the user A A with an interface allowing the user A A to provide a profile of their organization s workplaces and an initial technology configuration of the workplaces. The user A A may provide a separate profile and technology configuration of each workplace operated by the organization or the user A A may provide an aggregate profile and configuration of all of the workplaces operated by the organization. The profile information may describe the geographic location of the workplace the industry of the workplace the number of employees or workers in the workplace and or any general characteristics describing the workplace. The initial configuration of the workplace may include information describing the inventory of information technology IT equipment of the workplace and information describing the average amount of traveling performed by workers at the workplace. The inventory of equipment may include the equipment used by the workers in the workplace such as laptops monitors desktops printers thin clients network devices or generally any technology utilized in the workplace. The user A A may provide specific equipment information such as the specific models or may provide a more general description of the equipment.

Alternatively or in addition the inventory of IT equipment may include any telepresence technologies being utilized in the workplace. Telepresence technologies may refer to a set of technologies which allow a person to feel as if they were present to give the appearance that they were present or to have an effect at a location other than their true location. One example of telepresence technology may be video conferencing technologies. The telepresence inventory may also include the annual estimated costs associated with operating the telepresence technologies.

Alternatively or in addition the inventory of IT equipment may also incorporate the facilities used in the workplace. For example the lighting cooling heating facilities and or other facilities which consume energy. The infrastructure of the workplace facility itself may be analyzed to determine whether the building infrastructure effects the energy consumption of the workplace. For example if the building is not properly insulated the workplace may require more energy for heating and cooling systems.

The system may include a database of pre filled technology equipment information which the user A A may be able to browse or search. The equipment information may include specific data describing workplace IT equipment such as the make and model of the equipment the energy consumed by the equipment the annual operating cost of the equipment or generally any data describing IT equipment. The administrator may maintain the database and may update the database as new information regarding IT equipment becomes available. The administrator may manually update the database or the database may be automatically updated by a data feed.

Once the user A A has provided the workplace technology configuration of their organization s workplaces the user A A may begin to develop a workplace technology strategy. The user A A may select one or more energy saving initiatives for each workplace. The initiatives may represent one or more methods for reducing the carbon emissions attributable to the operation of the workplace. The initiatives may relate to transitioning to more energy efficient technology equipment such as transitioning to a thin client infrastructure reducing the amount of air travel performed by workers in the workplace such as by implementing telepresence technologies transitioning the workers in the workplace towards more energy efficient behaviors such as turning on power save functionality or generally any initiative that may reduce the carbon output associated with the workplaces.

In the case of thin clients desktops may be phased out in favor of a mainframe environment with thin client terminals and a super computer mainframe. The use of thin clients may reduce the number of times new equipment needs to be purchased. Furthermore the telepresence technology may be used to reduce the travel requirements of the organization thereby reducing the travel costs and carbon emissions associated with air travel.

In order to accurately measure the effects of the workplace technology strategy the user A A may provide forecasts for the change in electricity costs and the change in the amount of carbon generated per kilowatt hour of energy consumed. The system may apply the forecasts provided by the user A A to the workplace technology configurations and initiatives identified by the user A A. The system may generate one or more graphs demonstrating the effects of the forecasted changes on the operating and environmental costs associated with operating the workplaces over a period of time. The user A A may use the information provided in the graphs to further refine the configuration of their workplaces.

Alternatively or in addition the system may process the initial workplace technology configuration provided by the user A A and the initiatives selected by the user A A to provide recommended future configurations of the workplace of the user A A. The recommended configurations may include estimates of the equipment required for the implementation of the initiatives at each workplace.

The recommended configurations may be based on historical workplace technology configurations maintained by the administrator . The historical workplace technology configurations may include information regarding the equipment and performance of existing workplaces. The system may identify historical workplace technology configuration data relating to both the workplace profiles provided by the user A A and the initiatives selected by the user A A. The system may process the workplace profile data to generate estimate values for the recommended workplace technology configuration of the user A A. The user A A may accept the estimate values of the system or may modify the configuration based on their own assessment of the forecasted reduction values.

Alternatively or in addition the system may automatically analyze the workplace configurations identified by the user A A to determine whether the workplace configurations may be modified to increase the energy and or cost saving efficiencies. The system may recommend modifications to the configurations which may result in more efficient energy use by the organization.

Once the user A A has determined their preferred workplace technology configurations the system may rate the overall workplace configuration of the organization based on other configurations stored in the database. The rating may be based on the carbon output savings achieved by the workplace technology configuration and or the cost savings achieved by the workplace technology configuration. The system may further provide an assessment of the initiatives implemented by the user A A from both a financial and environmental impact.

The user A A may use the system to view the effects of multiple waves of workplace technology initiatives. For example the user A A may wish to implement a thin client initiative over a period of time followed by a telepresence initiative over a different period of time. The system may allow the user A A to define the periods of time over which the initiatives may be implemented. The system may generate graphs or other visualization data showing the aggregate effects of the initiatives on carbon emissions and cost savings. Alternatively or in addition the system may recommend the most efficient order to implement the initiatives based on the electricity and carbon trends provided by the user A A.

The system may provide the user A A with quantitative financial measurements for each initiative. For example the system may provide the user A A with the reduction in costs achievable by the initiative such as operating costs electricity costs and travel costs. The system may provide the user with the return on investment of each initiative and the net present value of each initiative. The system may also provide the user A A with the amount of time until the aggregate annual savings achieved by the initiative offset the initial investment required by the initiative.

The system may provide the user A A with the carbon impact of the initiative such as the reduction in carbon emissions attributable to the workplace. The system may provide the user A A with real world environmental comparisons of the carbon impact such as the number of cars removed from the road or the number of acres of forest planted.

The network environment may include one or more users A N an administrator a service provider server a third party server a data store networks and one or more web applications standalone applications mobile applications A N which may collectively be referred to as client applications.

Some or all of the service provider server and the third party server may be in communication with each other by way of network . The administrator may use a web application A to interface with the service provider server and maintain the historical workplace configuration data. Alternatively or in addition the administrator may use a mobile application N or a standalone application B to interface with the service provider server .

The networks may include wide area networks WAN such as the Internet local area networks LAN campus area networks metropolitan area networks or any other networks that may allow for data communication. The network may include the Internet and may include all or part of network network may include all or part of network . The networks may be divided into sub networks. The sub networks may allow access to all of the other components connected to the networks in the system or the sub networks may restrict access between the components connected to the networks . The network may be regarded as a public or private network connection and may include for example a virtual private network or an encryption or other security mechanism employed over the public Internet or the like.

The web applications standalone applications and mobile applications A N may be connected to the network in any configuration that supports data transfer. This may include a data connection to the network that may be wired or wireless. Any of the web applications standalone applications and mobile applications A N may individually be referred to as a client application. The web application A may run on any platform that supports web content such as a web browser or a computer a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA pager network enabled television digital video recorder such as TIVO automobile and or any appliance or platform capable of data communications. The web application A may support a rich internet application implemented with the ADOBE FLEX technologies. Alternatively or in addition the web application A may be developed using one or more of the following technologies ADOBE FLEXBUILDER 3 ADOBE FLEX SUBCLIPSE or generally any web development technologies.

The standalone application B may run on a machine that may have a processor memory a display a user interface and a communication interface. The processor may be operatively connected to the memory display and the interfaces and may perform tasks at the request of the standalone application B or the underlying operating system. The memory may be capable of storing data. The display may be operatively connected to the memory and the processor and may be capable of displaying information to the user B B. The user interface may be operatively connected to the memory the processor and the display and may be capable of interacting with a user B B. The communication interface may be operatively connected to the memory and the processor and may be capable of communicating through the networks with the service provider server . The standalone application B may be programmed in any programming language that supports communication protocols. These languages may include SUN JAVA C C ASP SUN JAVASCRIPT asynchronous SUN JAVASCRIPT or ADOBE FLASH ACTIONSCRIPT ADOBE FLEX amongst others.

The mobile application N may run on any mobile device that may have a data connection. The data connection may be a cellular connection a wireless data connection an internet connection an infra red connection a Bluetooth connection or any other connection capable of transmitting data.

The service provider server may include one or more of the following an application server a mobile application server a data store a database server and a middleware server. The service provider server may exist on one machine or may be running in a distributed configuration on one or more machines.

The service provider server and client applications A N may be one or more computing devices of various kinds such as the computing device in . Such computing devices may generally include any device that may be configured to perform computation and that may be capable of sending and receiving data communications by way of one or more wired and or wireless communication interfaces. Such devices may be configured to communicate in accordance with any of a variety of network protocols including but not limited to protocols within the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocol suite. For example the web application A may employ the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to request information such as a web page from a web server which may be a process executing on the service provider server .

There may be several configurations of database servers application servers mobile application servers and middleware applications included in the service provider server . The data store may be part of the service provider server and may be a database server such as MICROSOFT SQL SERVER ORACLE IBM DB2 SQLITE or any other database software relational or otherwise. The data store may store the historical workplace information. The application server may be APACHE TOMCAT MICROSOFT IIS ADOBE COLDFUSION or any other application server that supports communication protocols. The middleware application may be any middleware that provides additional functionality between the application server and the clients A N such as a PHP HYPERTEXT PREPROCESSOR PHP or a PYTHON framework such as a DJANGO framework.

The networks may be configured to couple one computing device to another computing device to enable communication of data between the devices. The networks may generally be enabled to employ any form of machine readable media for communicating information from one device to another. Each of networks may include one or more of a wireless network a wired network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a direct connection such as through a Universal Serial Bus USB port and the like and may include the set of interconnected networks that make up the Internet. The networks may include any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices.

In operation the user A A may access the service provided by the service provider through the web application A and the network . The web application A may download a client side application from the service provider server using ADOBE FLASH PLAYER 9. The web application A may request data from the middleware application such as a PHP server. The PHP server may query the information from the data store and communicate the information to the web application A. The user A A may interact with the client side application through the web application A. The data may be passed between the web application A and the database via the PHP server. The majority of the calculations may be performed on the service provider server although some calculations may be completed on the web application A in order to speed up response times.

Alternatively or in addition the client applications A N may be able to function in both an online and an offline mode. The client applications A N may include a locally cached data store for offline operations. The local and remote data store may synchronize when online operations are available. In one example the system may use ADOBE AIR to implement the online and offline functionality.

The network environment may represent an alternative server side architecture to the network environment . The network environment may include one or more users A N an administrator a service provider server a third party server a data store an application middle tier a statistical layer a feed engine a power monitoring systems networks and one or more web applications standalone applications mobile applications A N which may collectively be referred to as client applications.

In the network environment external data sources may provide historical workplace configuration data to the service provider server via the feed engine . The historical workplace configuration data may then be stored in the data store . The historical workplace configuration data may include any data describing existing or past configurations of workplaces. The feed engine may also be used to receive any other data relevant to the system such as real time information on electricity prices or the amount of carbon generated carbon per kWh of energy consumed. The external data sources may be Internet based such as a third party server . Alternatively or in addition the energy consumption of the workplaces may be received from the power monitoring systems . The power monitoring systems may also be third party servers and may provide real time visibility into electricity consumption of the workplace. The equipment in the workplace may be attached to energy meters such as the EIG SHARK 100 S ELECTRONIC SUB METER. The energy meters may be capable of transmitting energy use data over the networks to the power monitoring system or directly to the service provider server . The math statistics layer may be an application used to perform advanced modeling statistics and mathematics calculations. The statistical layer may allow for more sophisticated analytics to be applied with the application.

Alternatively or in addition the workplace technology configuration may include a description of any telepresence equipment being utilized at the workplace. Telepresence may equipment may include videoconferencing equipment conference bridging equipment or generally any equipment capable of affecting a telepresence. A telepresence implementation may allow an organization to reduce the amount of air travel of its employees.

Alternatively or in addition the initial workplace technology configuration or the workplace profile may also include information describing the air travel associated with the operation of the workplace. The air travel information may include the average number of flights per worker per year the average cost per flight per worker the average number of miles per flight per worker or generally any information describing the air travel associated with the workplace.

Alternatively or in addition the service provider may have access to the cost of flights from city to city such as through an external data source . The service provider may be able to provide the user A A with current averages for flights from workplace to workplace. The user A A may accept the averages or modify the values for their organization.

At block the system may determine whether the user A A wishes to provide trend values. The user A A may provide trend values to forecast changes in electricity costs and changes in the carbon emission per kWh of electricity consumed. If at block the user A A wishes to provide trend values the system may move to block . At block the service provider server may receive trend values from the user A A. If at block the user A A does not wish to provide trend values the service provider server may use default values for the trend values. The default values may be an average of all the trend values provided by the other users B N. Alternatively or in addition the service provider server may retrieve trend values from one of the external data sources such as from an analyst s forecast an industry expert s forecast a government forecast or historical trend data.

At block the service provider may process the initial workplace configuration data of the user A A to recommend energy saving initiatives which may reduce the operating costs and or carbon output of the workplace. The service provider may use expert data provided by the administrator to determine areas where the energy efficiency of the workplace technology configuration may be improved. For example if the initial configuration and or profile indicate that the workplace is heavily dependent on air travel the service provider may recommend a telepresence initiative to reduce the air travel associated with the workplace. If the initial configuration data indicates that the workplace relies extensively on standalone computing equipment the service provider may recommend a thin client initiative to migrate the workplace towards a thin client mainframe environment. If the service provider determines that the workplace is generally utilizing equipment that is not energy efficient the service provider may recommend an equipment refresh implementing energy efficient equipment. If the service provider determines that the workplace is using disparate printers fax machines and copiers the service provider may recommend an equipment refresh of all in one equipment capable of performing printing faxing and copying functions. If the service provider determines that the initial equipment configuration is optimal for minimizing operating costs and carbon output the service provider may recommend one or more behavior initiatives. The behavior initiatives may attempt to transition the behavior of the workers at the workplace towards more energy efficient behaviors such as turning off IT equipment when not in use telecommuting from a home office carpooling printing on both sides of each sheet of paper or generally any behavior which may reduce the carbon emissions or operating costs associated with the workplace. Alternatively or in addition the service provider may provide all of the initiatives to the user A A regardless of the initial configuration provided by the user A A.

At block the service provider may receive a selection of one or more initiatives from the user A A. The selection of the initiative may include a value associated with the initiative such as a percentage of equipment to be affected by a thin client or an equipment refresh initiative a percentage of employees projected to comply with a behavior initiative or generally any value capable of refining the selected initiative. At block the service provider may process the initial configuration data the selected initiative and any associated values to determine a recommended workplace technology configuration. For example if the user A A selected an energy efficient equipment refresh initiative and indicated that 50 of the equipment should be refreshed the service provider may determine a recommended configuration where 50 of the initial equipment is replaced with energy efficient equipment. If the user A A selected a thin client initiative and indicated that 50 of the equipment should be migrated to thin clients the service provider may determine a recommended configuration where 50 of the computers are replaced with thin clients and one or more mainframe servers. If the user A A selected a telepresence initiative the service provider may determine a recommended configuration that includes telepresence technologies.

At block the service provider may calculate the projection values of an implementation of the recommend configuration and an implementation of the initial configuration based on the trend values. The projection values may include the projected electricity costs projected operating costs and projected carbon output. The service provider may also calculate reduction values associated with the reductions in cost and carbon output achievable by the recommended configuration over the initial configuration. The reduction values may include the reduction in electricity cost reduction in operating cost and reduction in carbon output. Alternatively or in addition the service provider may determine environmental comparison values which may indicate the effect the reduction in carbon output may have on the environment such as the number of acres of forest that may be saved the number of cars which may be removed from the road or generally any environmental metric which may provide the user A A with a real world reference to the reduction in carbon output. The reduction values may be calculated by taking the difference between the projection values associated with the initial configuration and the projection values associated with the recommended configuration. The calculation of the projection values is discussed in more detail in below.

At block the service provider may provide the recommended configuration to the user A A such as through the user interface. At block the service provider may provide the calculated projection values and reduction values to the user A A such as through the user interface. The system may repeat the operations of for each workplace of the organization maintained by the user A A. Alternatively or in addition the operations of may be performed on the aggregate collection of all the workplaces of the organization maintained by the user A A.

At block the service provider may identify the first time period in the timeframe such as the first year. At block the service provider may determine the value of the electricity costs and the tons of carbon generated by each kWh of electricity consumed for the time period currently being analyzed. The trend values may be inputted by the user A A or may be retrieved from an external data source . Alternatively or in addition the administrator or other expert user may provide the trend values.

At block the service provider may determine the power consumption of the technology equipment over the time period being analyzed. The service provider may store energy use information for each piece of equipment in the data store . The energy use information may be entered by the administrator or an expert user. Alternatively or in addition the energy use information may be retrieved from an external data source or the power monitoring system . The energy use information for the equipment may include a maximum number of watts used per hour a typical number of watts used per hour and an idle number of watts used per hour. Certain equipment such as telepresence equipment or thin client equipment may have specialized power consumption values. For example the thin client power consumption may depend on the thin client isolation configuration and the telepresence power consumption may incorporate the necessary support equipment and or may vary during an active call such as a videoconference call. Exemplary energy use values may be found in . For each piece of equipment the service provider may determine the number of hours the equipment will be run at the maximum level the typical level or the idle level over the time period. The number of hours the equipment will be run at each level over the time period is then multiplied by the watts consumed for the level for the particular piece of equipment. The power use for each piece of equipment is added together to determine the total power use of the equipment for the time period. Alternatively or in addition the system may assume that the thin client equipment runs at the maximum wattage at all times.

At block the service provider may calculate the electricity cost for the time period and the configuration. The electricity cost may be calculated by multiplying the forecasted cost of electricity for the time period by the total power use of the equipment for the time period. The electricity cost for the time period may be added to the aggregate total electricity cost for the timeframe.

At block the service provider may determine the equipment operating cost for the configuration for the time period. The equipment operating cost may be determined by adding the operating cost of each piece of equipment for the time period. may provide exemplary annual operating costs for various pieces of equipment. The operating cost of standard equipment for the time period such as monitors laptops printers may be calculated by adding the equipment maintenance cost and the equipment miscellaneous cost of the time period. The operating cost of telepresence equipment for the time period may be calculated by adding the telepresence equipment s administration cost data cost maintenance cost depreciation cost and miscellaneous cost for the time period. The equipment operating cost may be determined by adding these values together.

At block the service provider may determine the air travel data associated with the workplace for the time period. The air travel data may include the number of flights from the workplace for the time period the average miles per flight from the workplace for the time period and the average cost of a flight from the workplace for the time period. The air travel data may be provided by the user A A with the profile for the workplace. Alternatively or in addition the air travel data may be provided by the administrator or other expert user or the air travel data may be based on averages for the industry received from external data sources .

At block the service provider may calculate the total operating cost for the workplace over the time period. The total operating cost for the workplace may be the sum of the operating cost of the equipment the operating cost of the telepresence equipment and the travel operating cost. The travel operating cost may be calculated by multiplying the average cost of a flight from the workplace during the time period by the average number of flights from the workplace during the time period. The total operating cost for the time period may be added to the aggregate operating cost for the timeframe.

At block the service provider may calculate the total carbon output of the workplace during the time period. The total carbon output of the workplace may be determined by adding the carbon output of the equipment and the carbon output associated with air travel. The carbon output of the equipment may be calculated by multiplying the total power use of all equipment by the forecasted tons of carbon emitted from each kilowatt of energy consumed. The carbon output associated with the air travel may be determined by multiplying the average number of flights by the average miles per flight. The total may then be multiplied with a constant relating to the tons of carbon emitted per mile of flight flown such as 0.00045. The constant may be retrieved from an external data source . The total carbon output of the time period may be added to the aggregate total carbon output for the timeframe.

At block the system may determine whether there are additional periods of time remaining in the timeframe. If the system determines there are additional periods of time remaining the in timeframe the system may move to block . At block the system may identify the next time period in the timeframe. Once the next time period in the timeframe is identified the system may return to block .

If at block the system determines there are no additional time periods remaining in the timeframe the system may move to block . At block the service provider may calculate the reduction values of the configuration. The reduction values of the configuration may only be calculated if the user A A provided an initial configuration and also selected an additional configuration or a recommended configuration. The reduction values may demonstrate the benefits provided by the recommended configuration over the initial configuration for the timeframe. The reduction values may be calculated for the electricity use electricity cost carbon output and operating cost. The reduction values may be calculated by subtracting the total values associated with the recommended configuration for the timeframe from the total values associated with the initial configuration for the timeframe. Alternatively or in addition reduction values may be calculated by subtracting the total forecasted values associated with the initial configuration for the timeframe from the total values associated with the recommended configuration from the timeframe. If the number of workers identified in the recommended configuration differs from the number of workers identified in the initial configuration the service provider may prorate the values associated with the forecasted configuration before performing the subtraction. The values may be prorated by multiplying each value by the headcount associated with the recommended configuration and dividing the result by the headcount associated with the initial configuration. At block the service provider may provide the determined values to the user A A such as through a user interface.

Alternatively or in addition the service provider may calculate environmental comparison values. The environmental comparison values may provide the user A A with a perspective of the potential real world effects of the reduction of carbon output associated with the workplace. The environmental comparisons may include the equivalent number of automobiles removed from the road or the number of acres of forest that could be planted. The environmental comparison values may be calculated by dividing the amount of carbon generated by a constant. The carbon values may need to be converted from tons into pounds in order to perform the calculation. The value of the constant in regards to the number of cars removed from the road may be 11470 and the constant in regards to the acres of forest planted may be 8066. Alternatively or in addition the value of the constants may be retrieved from an external data source .

At block the service provider may calculate the return on investment timeframe for the recommended configuration. The return on investment timeframe may be the amount of time until the aggregate annual reduction in costs realized by the configuration surpasses the initial cost of implementing the configuration. The service provider may calculate the return on investment timeframe by dividing the implementation cost of the recommended configuration by the annual reduction in costs attributable to the recommended configuration. At block the service provider may provide the recommended or selected configuration and the timeframe to the user A A such as via a web interface.

Alternatively or in addition the service provider may also provide additional financial indicators which may allow the user A A to gauge the value of the configuration. The additional indicators may include the return on investment value over a time period and the net present value over a time period of the recommended configuration. The time period may be the amount of time the configuration is expected to be operational. The service provider may calculate the return on investment by first determining the aggregate annual reduction in costs associated with the implementation over the time period. The service provider may then determine the cost of implementing the initiative. The return on investment for the time period may then be calculated by subtracting the implementation cost from the aggregate annual reduction in costs and dividing the result by the cost of the initiative. The service provider may also calculate an after tax return on investment by multiplying the calculated return on investment by the tax rate of the organization and subtracting the result from the calculated return on investment.

The service provider may use the following formula to determine the net present value NPV of the configuration NPV InitialInvestment NetCashflow 1 DiscountRate . The InitialInvestment may be the cost of implementing the new equipment including the installation costs the removal costs of the old equipment and the disposal of the old equipment. Alternatively or in addition the opportunity cost of implementation may also be included in the InitialInvestment if the DiscountRate does not represent a return realized from a better opportunity. N may be the total number of time periods the configuration is expected to be operational for such as a number of years. The NetCashflow may be the operating cost plus the electricity cost of the recommended configuration subtracted from the operating cost plus the electricity costs of the initial configuration. The DiscountRate may be a constant rate which represents the return realized from a better opportunity or the organization s average rate of return on their investments.

The power management initiative may request the employees at the workspace to take the action of setting their equipment to automatically enter low power states when not in use such as a hibernate state for laptops or an auto off state for monitors. The power management initiative may reduce the number of hours the equipment is running at the typical wattage and may increase the number of hours the equipment is running at the idle wattage thereby reducing the carbon output of the equipment. The telecommute initiative may request the employees at the workspace to take the action of telecommuting from a home office for one or more days per week. The telecommute initiative may require that the organization purchase equipment for enabling telecommuting from a home office. The telecommute initiative may reduce the amount of office space needed for the workplace. For example five employees may share four offices with each employee being assigned a different day of the week to work from home. Alternatively or in addition the telecommute initiative may reduce the carbon emissions generated by employees driving to and from the workplace. The two sided printing initiative may require that the employees take the action of printing on both sides of a piece of paper. The two sided initiative may reduce the power consumption of the prints and may reduce the amount of paper consumed by the workplace.

Alternatively or in addition the service provider may provide all of the behavioral initiatives to the user A A and may allow the user A A to select the behavioral initiatives to implement. The user A A may be able to forecast the effects of the behavioral initiatives before deciding which initiatives to implement. The user A A may also be able to enter a percentage of employees that they believe may take part in the behavioral initiative. The service provider may apply the percentage to the equipment types associated with the initiative such as printers monitors and laptops since the service provider may assume that each employee has at least one piece of equipment associated with them. Once a behavioral initiative has been determined the system may move to block .

At block the service provider may notify the workers at the workspace of the action required by the behavioral initiative. The service provider may notify the workers by sending the workers an email. Alternatively or in addition the service provider may generate an email and send the email to the user A A. The user A A may then forward the email to the workers associated with the initiative. After the workers have been notified of the action required by the initiative the system may move to block . Alternatively or in addition the service provider may exclude a worker from the behavioral initiative if the worker s energy consumption is already at the level expected by the behavioral initiative.

At block the system may identify the first worker in the workplace in order to determine whether the worker has performed the required action. At block the service provider may determine if the worker performed the action required by the behavioral initiative. The service provider may determine whether the worker performed the action by comparing the worker s energy consumption before being notified of the action with the worker s energy consumption after being notified of the action. The service provider may obtain the energy consumption of each worker through energy meters connected to the equipment of the worker or through the power monitoring system . For example if the behavioral initiative is expected to reduce the energy consumption of each employee by 100 watts per week the service provider may determine whether the worker s energy consumption has decreased 100 watts within a reasonable variant such as 10 watts in the week following the notification. Alternatively or in addition monitoring software may be used to allow the system to monitor the actions of the user A A. For example the system may poll the desktop of the user A A to determine whether the user A A left the desktop on or not. Alternatively or in addition the user A A may provide an indication to the service provider as to whether the worker performed the action. Alternatively or in addition the user A A may manually enter energy use values for the worker before and after being notified of the action.

If at block the service provider determines the worker performed the action the system may move to block . At block the service provider may provide an incentive to the employee such as a gift certificate or generally any incentive capable of inducing the workers to perform the action. If at block the worker did not perform the action the system may move to block . At block the service provider may re notify the worker of the action required by the initiative. At block the system may determine whether there are additional workers in the workplace to evaluate. If there are additional workers the system may move to block . At block the service provider may identify the next worker in the workplace to evaluate.

If at block the service provider determines that there are no additional workers to evaluate the system may move to block . At block the service provider may generate a report indicating whether each worker performed the action required by the initiative. At block the service provider may provide the report to the user A A such as through a web interface.

At block the user A A may provide an initial energy cost forecast and tons of carbon generated per kilowatt of energy consumed forecast. The user A A may create one or more trends with the one or more sets of forecasted values. The system may display a visual representation of the projected energy costs and carbon emissions of the initial workplace configuration based on the forecasts of the user A A.

The system may also provide the user A A with expert suggestions for the forecasts such as expert predictions of the increase in the cost of electricity or expert predictions of the tons of carbon generated per kilowatt hour of energy consumed. The expert predictions may be retrieved from government reports such as reports including data and analysis conducted by government agencies. Alternatively or in addition the expert predictions may be retrieved from industry experts such as experts who may provide their predictions for the forecasts which may affect their business. The industry experts may be vendors and or analysts such as GARDNER IDC and or FORRESTER. Alternatively or in addition the expert predictions may be retrieved from ACCENTURE experts who may create their own pre configured projects to make the knowledge available to the users A N.

Alternatively or in addition the user A A may be able to view the aggregated forecast or trend data across the workplaces of all the other users B N. The user A A may be able to filter the results in order to receive a more detailed customized projection. The aggregate forecast data may be filtered by the geography of the workplace of the users B N the industry of the users B N or the expertise of the users B N. The system may also provide the user A A with a level of confidence data. The level of confidence data may allow the user A A to determine the number of other users B N whose data is represented in the aggregated forecast data. The level of confidence may be reported to the user A A by displaying a count per filter combination. The count per filter combination may allow the user A A to see the number of other users B N whose data is sourced in the aggregated forecast data. Alternatively or in addition other statistical techniques may be used to provide the user A A with confidence levels and or other measures of potential error. In this case the system may show a range of initiatives on the screen or an average value with confidence intervals where some percentage of the inputs from the users B N are captured.

At block the user A A may identify the timeframe for implementing the workplace technology initiative. The system may use the timeframe to determine the projected energy needs and costs of operating the workplace. At block the user A A may select an initiative for the current timeframe of the workplace strategy. The initiative may be a strategy to reduce the operating cost and or the carbon output of the workplace.

If the user A A selects more than one initiative the system may suggest an order in which the initiatives maybe implemented. The order may be optimized relative to the forecasts for the energy costs and the carbon emissions per kWh or other factors. A method for determining the optimum order may be to compute the reductions achievable for all possible arrangements and provide the order capable of achieving the greatest reduction to the user A A. The number of initiatives may be in the hundreds and such a method should be feasible.

At block the system may project the impact of implementing the selected initiative to the workplace. The projection may account for all forecasted values such as energy costs and the amount of carbon generated per kilowatt of energy consumed. The system may suggest a workplace configuration best suited to implement the selected initiative.

Alternatively or in addition the system may allow the user A A to view real time estimates showing relevant planning metrics as the user A A selects initiatives and or updates their workplace configuration. The metrics may include the energy use in kWh the carbon footprint the implementation and operation cost or generally any metric that may be of interest to the user A A.

At block the user A A may update the workplace configuration data with the suggested values of the system . Alternatively or in addition the user A A may disregard the suggestion of the system and insert values determined by their own assessment. At block the user A A may identify whether they wish to plan more waves of workplace planning strategies. If at block the user A A wishes to plan out another wave the system moves to block otherwise the system moves to block . At block the user A A may identify the timeframe of the next wave and then the system may move to block .

At block the system may process all the waves created by the user A A to generate the projected aggregate results of the waves on the carbon emissions electricity cost operating cost and energy use of the workplace. The system may generate one or more graphs showing the projected values of these values over the course of the planned timeframe.

If the user A A has identified multiple initiatives per wave and an order of the initiatives within the waves the system may provide a schedule of planned implementation dates of the wave plans. Alternatively or in addition the user A A may manually specify the timing of the wave deployment. The schedule may be optimized relative to the forecasts for electricity cost carbon emissions per kWh or other factors. The order of deployment may also be optimized based on operational expenses capital expenses or other measures. For example to minimize capital expenditures CAPEX the system may suggest timing of initiatives in a manner that leverages the savings garnered from the previous waves to finance the cost of later waves. This may require the forecasted cost of the electricity as an input. Alternatively or in addition to lower operational expenditure OPEX constraint to an annual budget the system may suggest a timing of initiatives to coincide with changes in energy prices.

At block the service provider may display the graphs and projected results to the user A A. The service provider may also provide the user A A with a rating and assessment of their workplace strategy. The rating may be based on the strategies and reduction values of the other users B N.

Alternatively or in addition the system may allow the user A A to create multiple workplace instances or multiple profiles for the same workplace. The multiple workplace instances may allow the user A A to compare the effects of different initiatives and or forecasts on a workplace. For each workplace instance the user A A may specify separate headcounts initiatives waves or generally any data associated with the workplaces.

The user A A may be able to manage the strategy planning across multiple workplaces so as to ensure that the entire organizational workplace strategy is optimized. The system may allow the user A A to view the current or initial configuration of the workplaces as well as view the projections of their planned changes across all of the workplaces. The information may be used to support other business activities and or decisions of the user A A.

At block the system may identify the first component of the workplace such as a monitor. At block the service provider may search the historical dataset for a component that is more efficient either cost wise or carbon emissions wise than the component currently used in the workplace. For example the service provider may identify a monitor that is more energy efficient than the monitor used in the workplace. Alternatively or in addition the service provider may attempt to convert multiple components into more efficient components such as converting laptop and desktop computers to a thin client infrastructure. At block the service provider may determine whether a more efficient component exists capable of replacing one or more components in the current configuration.

If at block the service provider determines that a more efficient component exists the system may move to block . At block the service provider may add the more efficient component to a recommended configuration. If at block the service provider determines that a more efficient component does not exist then the system may move to block . At block the service provider may add the current component to the recommended configuration. At block the service provider may determine whether there are additional components to analyze in the workplace inventory. If at block the service provider determines there are additional components to analyze then the system may move to block . At block the service provider may identify the next component to analyze and may repeat the steps of determining whether a more efficient component exists.

After analyzing each of the components in the workplace inventory and generating a recommended configuration the system may move to block . At block the system may determine the cost of the recommended configuration and the carbon output of the recommended configuration. If the recommended configuration is identical to the initial configuration of the user A A then the service provider may report to the user A A that there are no optimizations to their workplace configuration.

At block the service provider may display a comparison of the current configuration and the recommended configuration to the user A A. The comparison may display to the user A A the annual costs and the annual carbon emissions achieved by the current workplace configuration of the user A A and those achieved by the recommended configuration. At block the service provider may display a forecast of the future energy and cost savings achievable by the recommended configuration over the initial configuration of the user A A. At block the system may offer the user A A the option to purchase the equipment necessary to convert the technology in their workplace to the recommended configuration. The service provider may sell the equipment directly to the user A A or the service provider may refer the user A A to a retailer. If the service provider refers the user A A to a retailer the service provider may receive a referral fee or a percentage of any purchases made by the user A A.

In operation an administrator such as a consultant may view all of the clients or organizations configured with the system in the clients table . The administrator may select a client from the client table which is then referred to as the selected client . The description data associated with the selected client may be displayed in the client data subsection . The administrator may be able to view and or modify the client name of the selected client in the client name field . The administrator may be able to view and or modify the start date associated with the selected client in the start date field . The administrator may be able to view and or modify the end date associated with the selected client in the end date field . The start date and the end date may indicate the timeframe in which results will be calculated in. Workplaces profiles and trends may only be created within this timeframe. The administrator may change and or modify the industry associated with the selected client in the industry field . The administrator may view and or modify the contact associated with the selected client in the contact field . The administrator may view and or modify the comments associated with the selected client in the comments field . The administrator may add a new client by clicking on the new client button may remove the selected client by clicking on the remove client button or may edit the selected client by clicking on the edit client button . The administrator may use the new client button to create a copy of the current client and configure the copied client with different initiatives than the original client. The administrator may change the selected client by clicking on the client selectors . The administrator may use a tutorial by clicking on the tutorial link and may provide feedback by clicking on the feedback link . The administrator may minimize the client subsection by clicking on the minimize button .

The administrator may view and or modify each office or workplace associated with the selected client in the office data subsection . The administrator may change the currently viewed office by using the office selectors . The administrator may view or modify the name of the currently viewed office in the office name field . The administrator may view and or modify the location of the current office using the geography selector . The administrator may view and or modify the region associated with the office using the region selector . The administrator may view and or modify the city associated with the office in the city field . The administrator may view and or modify the address associated with the office in the address field . The administrator may view and or modify the postal code associated with the office in the postal code field . The administrator may view and or modify the comments associated with the office in the comments field . The administrator may open a more detailed view of the office listed in the office name field by clicking on the open office button . The service provider may provide the administrator with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the administrator clicks on the open office button .

The administrator may view a graphical output related to any initiatives associated with the office listed in the office name field of the selected client in the initiatives graph . The graphical output may be a line graph a bar graph a pie chart or generally any type of graph. The administrator may open a more detailed view of the initiatives by clicking on the open initiatives button . The service provider may provide the administrator with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the administrator clicks on the open initiatives button .

The administrator may view a graphical output related to any results associated with the office listed in the office name field of the selected client in the results graph . The administrator may open a more detailed view of the results by clicking on the open results button . The service provider may provide the administrator with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the administrator clicks on the open results button .

The service provider may provide a user A A with a tutorial of the system when the user A A clicks on the tutorial link . The user A A may be able to submit feedback on the system by clicking on the feedback link .

In operation the user A A may view all of the workplaces configured with the system in the office table . The user A A may select an office in the office table which is then referred to as the selected office . The user A A may modify and or view information related to the selected office in the office data subsection . The user A A may create a new office by clicking on the new office button . The user A A may remove the selected office by clicking on the remove office button . The user A A may manage the selected office by clicking on the manage office button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the manage office button . The user A A may change the selected office by using the office selectors . The user A A may edit the selected office by clicking on the edit office button . The user A A may minimize the offices subsection by clicking on the minimize button .

The user A A may view and or modify the client data associated with the client listed in the client name field in the client data subsection . The administrator may click on the client open button to view the user interface displayed in the screenshot and may use the client selectors to change clients. The client open button and client selectors may not be available to the user A A.

The user A A may view initiative data relating to the selected office in the initiatives table . The user A A may view more detailed information relating to the initiatives associated with the selected office by clicking on the open initiatives button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the open initiative button .

The user A A may view results data relating to the selected office in the results table . The user A A may view more detailed information relating to the results associated with the selected office by clicking on the open results button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the open results button .

In operation the office being currently managed may be displayed in the selected office display . The user A A may maintain one or more profiles for each office listed in the office table in the screenshot . The user A A may return to the user interface displayed in the screenshot by clicking on the back to dashboard button . The user A A may view the profiles associated with the office listed in the office name display in the profiles table . The user A A may select a profile from the profiles table . For example in the screenshot the As is Profile may be the selected profile . The user A A may remove the selected profile by clicking on the remove profile button . The user A A may cancel the selected profile by clicking on the cancel profile button . Canceling the selected profile may cause the selected profile to become inactive without removing the selected profile from the system . The user A A may update the selected profile by clicking on the update profile button . The user A A may view and or modify the equipment associated with the selected profile by clicking on the equipment button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in screenshot when the user A A clicks on the equipment button .

The user A A may view and or modify data relating to the selected profile in the profile data subsection . The user A A may view and or modify the name of the selected profile in the profile name field . The user A A may view and or modify the implementation date of the selected profile in the implementation date field . The user A A may view and or modify the current headcount of the selected profile in the current headcount field . The user A A may view and or modify the notes associated with the selected profile in the notes field . The user A A may view and or modify the average miles per flight associated with the selected profile in the average miles per flight field . The user A A may view and or modify the average cost per flight associated with the selected profile in the average cost per flight field . The user A A may view and or modify the average number of flights per office associated with the selected profile in the average number of flights per office field . The user A A may view the telepresence costs associated with the selected profile by clicking on the telepresence costs link . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the telepresence costs link .

The user A A may view a graphical representation of the implementation dates of the profiles in the profile timeline . The implementation date indicators may indicate the implementation start date of each of the profiles listed in the profiles table . The user A A may be able to click on an implementation date indicator and cause the profile associated with the implementation date indicator to become the selected profile .

The user A A may view and or modify the trend data associated with the selected profile in the trends subsection . The user A A may select a trend in the trend table . For example in the screenshot the selected trend is the trend with a date of 01 04 2009 and a value of 0.0900000. The user A A may modify the date associated with the selected trend in the date field . The user A A may modify the value associated with the selected trend in the value field . The user A A may add a new trend by clicking on the new trend button . The user A A may save the new trend or a modified trend by clicking the save trend button . The user A A may delete the selected trend by clicking on the delete trend point button . The user A A may switch between electricity trends and carbon trends by clicking on the trend selector . The user A A may view the dates and values associated with the trends listed in the trend table in the trend graph . The trend graph may display a trend line relating to the trend values and dates.

In operation the user A A may update the annual telepresence costs of the selected profile in the cost subsection . The user A A may view and or modify the telepresence administration cost in the administration cost field . The user A A may view and or modify the telepresence data cost in the data cost field . The user A A may view and or modify the telepresence maintenance cost in the maintenance cost field . The user A A may view and or modify the telepresence depreciation interest cost in the depreciation interest cost field . The user A A may view and or modify the telepresence miscellaneous costs in the miscellaneous costs field . After the user A A modifies the telepresence costs the user A A may click on the save button to save the changes in the system .

In operation the user A A may view all of the equipment stored in the system such as in the data store in the equipment table . The user A A may search the equipment table in the search field . The user A A may expand the equipment table by clicking on the expand button . The user A A may perform an advanced search on the equipment table by clicking on the advanced search link .

The user A A may view and or modify the equipment associated with the selected profile in the profile equipment table . The user A A may view data associated with the selected profile equipment in the equipment view subsection . The user A A may modify values associated with the selected profile equipment in the profile equipment values subsection . The user A A may view and or modify the quantity of the selected profile equipment in the quantity field . The user A A may view and or modify the typical hours per week the selected profile equipment is used in the typical hours per week field . The user A A may view and or modify the idle hours per week of the selected profile equipment in the idle hours per week field . The user A A may view and or modify the maintenance cost associated with the selected profile equipment in the maintenance cost field . The user A A may view and or modify the miscellaneous costs associated with the selected profile equipment in the miscellaneous cost field . The user A A may refresh the selected profile equipment by clicking on the refresh button . The user A A may remove the selected profile equipment by clicking on the remove button . The user A A may save changes in the profile equipment values subsection by clicking on the save button . The user A A may minimize the equipment configuration window by clicking on the minimize button .

In operation the user A A may select an office in the offices table . For example in the screenshot the selected office may be the Office A1. The user A A may select one or more results checkboxes projection checkboxes and reduction checkboxes for the offices displayed in the offices table . The user A A may click on the region comparison button to view data at a region level. The user A A may click on the client comparison button to view data at a client level. The client comparison button may not be available to the user A A only to the administrator .

The user A A may view the values associated with the selected checkboxes in the office graph . The office graph may display a line for each of the checkboxes selected such as the first office line the second office line and the third office line . Alternatively or in addition the office graph may include a reduction line which may demonstrate the difference between the projected results and the initial results.

The user A A may view the description data associated with the organization in the client data subsection . The user A A may be able to view and or modify the client name of the selected client in the client name field . The user A A may be able to view and or modify the start date associated with the selected client in the start date field . The user A A may be able to view and or modify the end date associated with the selected client in the end date field . The user A A may change and or modify the industry associated with the selected client in the industry field . The user A A may view and or modify the contact associated with the selected client in the contact field . The user A A may view and or modify the comments associated with the selected client in the comments field . The user A A may open a more detailed view of the client data subsection by clicking on the client open button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the client open button . Alternatively or in addition only the administrator may be allowed to click on the client open button . The administrator may change the displayed client by clicking on the client selectors . The user A A may not have access to the client selectors .

The user A A may view and or modify each office or workplace associated with the organization in the office data subsection . The user A A may change the currently viewed office by using the office selectors . The user A A may view or modify the name of the currently viewed office in the office name field . The user A A may view and or modify the location of the current office using the geography selector . The user A A may view and or modify the region associated with the office using the region selector . The user A A may view and or modify the city associated with the office in the city field . The user A A may view and or modify the address associated with the office in the address field . The user A A may view and or modify the postal code associated with the office in the postal code field . The user A A may view and or modify the comments associated with the office in the comments field . The user A A may open a more detailed view of the office listed in the office name field by clicking on the open office button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the open office button .

The user A A may view data relating to the initiatives associated with the selected office in the initiatives subsection . The user A A may view graphical data associated with the initiatives in the initiative graph . The user A A may open a more detailed view of the initiatives by clicking on the open initiatives button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the open initiatives button .

In operation the user A A may view assessment information for their organization in the assessment subsection . The assessment information may include the total electricity cost reduction the total operating cost reduction the total carbon output reduction and the total travel cost reduction. The user A A may view environmental comparison data in the environmental comparison subsection . The environmental comparison data may include the number of cars that may be removed from the road as a result of the carbon output reduction and the number of acres of forest that may be planted as a result of the carbon output reduction. The user A A may export the data to an ADOBE ACROBAT PDF file by clicking on the export to PDF button or may export the data to a MICROSOFT EXCEL spreadsheet by clicking on the export to excel button .

In operation the user A A may select one or more initiatives associated with the offices in the initiatives table . Graphical results relating to the selected initiatives and offices may be displayed in the initiatives graph . Each office may be represented by a separate row in the initiatives table . For each office the user A A may select one or more of the telepresence checkbox the thin client checkbox and the equipment refresh checkbox . If the user A A selects the thin client checkbox and or the equipment refresh checkbox the user A A may also provide a thin client reduction factor in the thin client reduction field and or an equipment refresh reduction factor in the equipment refresh reduction field . The reduction factors may represent the percentage of the current equipment to be affected by the forecast. The user A A may view the detailed values associated with each of the initiatives in the initiative subsection . The user A A may view the thin client values by clicking on the thin client tab the telepresence values by clicking on the telepresence tab and the equipment refresh values by clicking on the equipment refresh tab .

If the user A A clicks on the telepresence checkbox the service provider may add telepresence equipment to each of the profiles associated with the workplace and may reduce the travel expenses for each of the profiles. If the user A A clicks on a thin client checkbox the service provider may replace the percentage of desktops and or laptops identified in the thin client reduction field with generic thin client equipment. If the user A A clicks on a equipment refresh checkbox the service provider may replace the percentage of desktops laptops and or monitors identified in the equipment refresh reduction field with generic ENERGY STAR equipment including operating costs.

The user A A may click on one of the buttons to generate the results of their initiative table selections in the initiative graph . The electricity use button may display the graph forecasts relative to the electricity costs the carbon output button may display the graph forecasts relative to the carbon output the electricity cost button may display the graph forecasts relative to the electricity cost and the operating cost button may display the graph forecasts relative to the operating costs.

The forecasts may be displayed to the user A A in graphical form in the initiative graph . The initiative graph may have display lines corresponding to both the initiative configuration forecast and the current configuration forecast for each office to which an initiative is applied in the initiatives table . The graph may provide the user A A with an estimate of the effects of the initiatives as compared to the current configuration of their offices.

The user A A may view the description data associated with the organization of the user A A in the client data subsection . The user A A may be able to view and or modify the client name of the client associated with the selected office in the initiatives table . The user A A may be able to view and or modify the start date associated with the client associated with the selected office in the start date field . The user A A may be able to view and or modify the end date associated with the client associated with the selected office in the end date field . The user A A may change and or modify the industry associated with the client associated with the selected office in the industry field . The user A A may view and or modify the contact associated with the client associated with the selected office in the contact field . The user A A may view and or modify the comments associated with the client associated with the selected office in the comments field . The user A A may open a more detailed view of the client data subsection by clicking on the client open button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the client open button . Alternatively or in addition only the administrator may be allowed to click on the client open button . The administrator may change the displayed client by clicking on the client selectors . The user A A may not have access to the client selectors .

The user A A may view and or modify data describing the selected office in the office data subsection . The user A A may change the selected office by using the office selectors . The user A A may view or modify the name of the currently viewed office in the office name field . The user A A may view and or modify the location of the selected office using the geography selector . The user A A may view and or modify the region associated with the selected office using the region selector . The user A A may view and or modify the city associated with the selected office in the city field . The user A A may view and or modify the address associated with the selected office in the address field . The user A A may view and or modify the postal code associated with the selected office in the postal code field . The user A A may view and or modify the comments associated with the selected office in the comments field . The user A A may open a more detailed view of the selected office listed in the office name field by clicking on the open office button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the open office button .

The user A A may view results data relating to the selected office in the results table . The user A A may view more detailed information relating to the results associated with the selected office by clicking on the open results button . The service provider may provide the user A A with the user interface displayed in the screenshot when the user A A clicks on the open results button .

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system may also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system may be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system may be illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor such as a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. The processor may be a component in a variety of systems. For example the processor may be part of a standard personal computer or a workstation. The processor may be one or more general processors digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays servers networks digital circuits analog circuits combinations thereof or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor may implement a software program such as code generated manually i.e. programmed .

The computer system may include a memory that can communicate via a bus . The memory may be a main memory a static memory or a dynamic memory. The memory may include but may not be limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including but not limited to random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one case the memory may include a cache or random access memory for the processor . Alternatively or in addition the memory may be separate from the processor such as a cache memory of a processor the system memory or other memory. The memory may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples may include a hard drive compact disc CD digital video disc DVD memory card memory stick floppy disc universal serial bus USB memory device or any other device operative to store data. The memory may be operable to store instructions executable by the processor . The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein may be performed by the programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions acts or tasks may be independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firm ware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like.

The computer system may further include a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube CRT a projector a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The display may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory or in the drive unit .

Additionally the computer system may include an input device configured to allow a user to interact with any of the components of system . The input device may be a number pad a keyboard or a cursor control device such as a mouse or a joystick touch screen display remote control or any other device operative to interact with the system .

The computer system may also include a disk or optical drive unit . The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may perform one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. The instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The memory and the processor also may include computer readable media as discussed above.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network may communicate voice video audio images or any other data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via a communication interface . The communication interface may be a part of the processor or may be a separate component. The communication interface may be created in software or may be a physical connection in hardware. The communication interface may be configured to connect with a network external media the display or any other components in system or combinations thereof. The connection with the network may be a physical connection such as a wired Ethernet connection or may be established wirelessly as discussed below. Likewise the additional connections with other components of the system may be physical connections or may be established wirelessly. In the case of a service provider server or the content provider servers A N the servers may communicate with users A N through the communication interface .

The network may include wired networks wireless networks or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols.

The computer readable medium may be a single medium or the computer readable medium may be a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium may also include any medium that may be capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that may cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

The computer readable medium may include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. The computer readable medium also may be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium may include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that may be a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure may be considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Alternatively or in addition dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices may be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments may broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that may be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system may encompass software firmware and hardware implementations.

The methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further implementations may include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively or in addition virtual computer system processing maybe constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Although components and functions are described that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the components and functions are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus processors and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the description. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

