---

title: Architectural design for opportunity management application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing ad-hoc goods movement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include, for example, a lead processing process component that handles the potential interests of a business partner and the interactions with the business partner over a certain timeframe; an opportunity processing process component that handles the development, processing, and monitoring of opportunities; a customer quote processing process component that handles the processing of quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms; and a sales order processing process component that handles the processing of customers' requests to seller for delivery of goods, on a specific date, for a specific quantity, and for a specific price.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08374896&OS=08374896&RS=08374896
owner: SAP AG
number: 08374896
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for managing opportunities.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for an opportunity management software application.

In its various aspects the software architecture design can be implemented as methods systems and apparatuses including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing ad hoc goods movement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service operations each implemented for a respective process component. The process components include a Lead Processing process component an Opportunity Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component a Sales Order Processing process component an Activity Management process component and a Groupware process component.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the opportunity management design includes a Customer Relationship Management deployment unit . The Customer Relationship Management deployment unit handles the management of customer related activities within marketing presales sales and service. This generally includes the recording and processing of interactions throughout a customer life cycle.

The Customer Relationship Management deployment unit includes a Lead Processing process component an Opportunity Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component and a Sales Order Processing process component . The Lead Processing process component handles the potential interests of a business partner and the interactions with the business partner over a certain timeframe. The Opportunity Processing process component handles the development processing and monitoring of opportunities with the aim to initiate sales and service deals. The Customer Quote Processing process component handles the processing of quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms. The Sales Order Processing process component handles the processing of customers requests to seller for the delivery of goods on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Customer Relationship Management deployment unit can also employ other process components to perform opportunity management tasks. As shown in these other process components include an Activity Management process component and a Groupware process component . The Activity Management process component performs the recording of activities within an organization including business activities and tasks undertaken on behalf of the organization. The Groupware process component handles the integration of emails tasks and calendar events from a groupware server such as Microsoft Exchange Server or Lotus Domino Server.

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in the Activity Management process component includes a Letter Activity business object a Fax Activity business object and an Email Activity business object . The Letter Activity business object represents an activity that records a message written on paper by an employee of a company on the company s behalf. The Fax Activity business object represents an activity that contains documents or graphics transmitted via a telecommunications facility by an employee of a company. The Email Activity business object represents an activity that contains information communicated via the Internet or an internal groupware server. In some implementations the Email Activity business object can include texts and or attachments.

The Letter Activity business object uses a Notify of Letter Activity to DUET outbound process agent to invoke either a Notify of Email operation or a Notify of Email Cancellation operation . Both operations and are included in an Email Notification Out interface . The Notify of Email operation notifies the Groupware process component or the DUET process component about an update to letter activity fax activity or email activity. Similarly the Notify of Email Cancellation operation notifies a standard based Groupware or DUET about a cancellation of letter activity fax activity or email activity. If the Notify of Email operation is invoked an Email Notification message is generated and sent to the DUET process component . If the Notify of Email Cancellation operation is invoked an Email Cancellation Notification message is generated and sent to the DUET process component .

The Fax Activity business object uses a Notify of Fax Activity to DUET outbound process agent to invoke either the Notify of Email operation or the Notify of Email Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Email operation is invoked the Email Notification message is generated and sent to the DUET process component . If the Notify of Email Cancellation operation is invoked the Email Cancellation Notification message is generated and sent to the DUET process component .

The Email Activity business object uses a Notify of Email Activity to Groupware outbound process agent to invoke either the Notify of Email operation or the Notify of Email Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Email operation is invoked the Email Notification message is generated and sent to the DUET process component . If the Notify of Email Cancellation operation is invoked the Email Cancellation Notification message is generated and sent to the DUET process component .

As shown in the Activity Management process component includes an Activity Task business object . The Activity Task business object represents a task used in the Activity Management process component containing information about anything an employee needs to do within a certain time frame and which can be related to a business partner.

In general the Activity Task business object can send or receive messages from the Duet process component using a Manage Activity Task based on Groupware Task synchronous inbound process agent . Some examples of the messages are depicted in . They include an Activity Task Creation Request message an Activity Task Confirmation message an Activity Task Change Request an Activity Task Change Confirmation an Activity Task Cancellation Request and an Activity Task Cancellation Confirmation message .

In operation the Duet process component sends the Activity Task Creation Request message to the Activity Management process component . The Activity Task Creation Request message invokes a Create Activity Task operation which uses the Manage Activity Task based on Groupware Task synchronous inbound process agent to update the Activity Task business object . The Activity Task operation represents a request to notify the Activity Management process component about Appointment Activity based on synchronization with groupware data. The Activity Task operation is included in a Manage Groupware Task In interface . The Activity Task business object can acknowledge the receipt of the activity task creation request by sending the Activity Task Creation Confirmation message .

The Duet process component can also send the Activity Task Change Request message to the Activity Management process component . The Activity Task Change Request message invokes a Change Activity Task operation which uses the Manage Activity Task based on Groupware Task synchronous inbound process agent to update the Activity Task business object . The Change Activity Task operation represents a request to notify Activity Management about appointment activity based on synchronization with groupware data. The Activity Task business object can acknowledge the receipt of the activity task change request by sending the Activity Task Change Confirmation message .

The Duet process component can also send the Activity Task Cancellation Request message to the Activity Management process component . The Activity Task Cancellation Request message invokes a Cancel Activity Task operation which uses the Manage Activity Task based on Groupware Task synchronous inbound process agent to update the Activity Task business object . The Activity Task business object can acknowledge the receipt of the activity task cancellation request by sending the Activity Task Cancellation Confirmation message .

As shown in the Groupware process component receives template data from a Processing Groupware Out Mail communication channel template . The Groupware process component can use data received in the template to invoke either a Notify of Email operation or a Notify of Email Cancellation operation . The Notify of Email operation and the Notify of Email Cancellation operation are included in an Email Notification Out interface . If the Notify of Email operation is invoked an Email Notification message is generated and sent to the Activity Management process component . A Maintain Activity operation receives the Email Notification message and uses a Maintain Activity based on Email Transmission In inbound process agent to update the Email Activity business object the Fax Activity business object and or the letter Activity business object .

If the Notify of Email Cancellation operation is invoked an Email Cancellation Notification message is generated and sent to the Activity Management process component . A Cancel Activity operation receives the Email Cancellation Notification message and uses the Maintain Activity based on Email Transmission In inbound process agent to update the Email Activity business object the Fax Activity business object and or the letter Activity business object .

The Activity Management process component receives template information from a Processing at Tenant communication channel template . The process component can utilize the template information at any time during the sending or receiving of messages.

As shown in the Activity Management process component includes an Appointment Activity business object and a Phone Call Activity business object . The Appointment Activity business object represents a planned or unplanned activity that is maintained in a calendar of an employee of a company. It includes external appointments and scheduled meetings with other business partners. In some implementations an appointment contains information regarding the business partner involved the date on which the appointment is to take place and whether the appointment is related to business or is private in nature. The Phone Call Activity business object represents an activity that records telephone interactions that are undertaken by employees on behalf of a company.

In general both business objects and can send or receive messages from the Duet process component using a Manage Activity Task based on Calendar Event synchronous inbound process agent . Some examples of the messages are depicted in . They include an Activity Creation Request message an Activity Creation Confirmation message an Activity Change Request an Activity Change Confirmation an Activity Cancellation Request and an Activity Cancellation Confirmation message .

In operation the Duet process component sends the Activity Creation Request message to the Activity Management process component . The Activity Task Creation Request message invokes a Create Activity operation which uses the Manage Activity Task based on Calendar Event synchronous inbound process agent to update the Appointment Activity business object or the Phone Call Activity business object . The Create Activity operation is included in a Manage Calendar Event In interface . The business objects and can acknowledge the receipt of the activity creation request by sending the Activity Creation Confirmation message .

The Duet process component can also send the Activity Change Request message to the Activity Management process component . The Activity Change Request message invokes a Change Activity operation which uses the Manage Activity based on Calendar Event synchronous inbound process agent to update the Appointment Activity business object or the Phone Call Activity business object . The Appointment Activity business object and the Phone Call Activity business object can acknowledge the receipt of the activity change request by sending the Activity Change Confirmation message .

The Duet process component can also send the Activity Cancellation Request message to the Activity Management process component . The Activity Cancellation Request message invokes a Cancel Activity operation which uses the Manage Activity Task based on Calendar Event synchronous inbound process agent to update the Appointment Activity business object or the Phone Call Activity business object . The Appointment Activity business object and the Phone Call Activity business object can acknowledge the receipt of the activity cancellation request by sending the Activity Cancellation Confirmation message .

As shown in the Activity Management process component includes the Phone Call Activity business object and the Appointment Activity business object . The Phone Call Activity business object uses a Notify of Phone Call Activity to Duet outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Calendar Event operation . The Notify of Calendar Event operation is included in a Calendar Event Notification Out interface . The Notify of Calendar Event operation sends a Calendar Event Notification message to the Duet process component .

The Appointment Activity business object uses a Notify of Appointment Activity to Groupware outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Calendar Event Cancellation operation . The Notify of Calendar Event Cancellation operation is included in the Calendar Event Notification Out interface . The Notify of Calendar Event Cancellation operation sends a Calendar Event Cancellation Notification message to the Duet process component .

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in apportion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the present disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

