---

title: Systems for rewarding influencers
abstract: The present disclosure relates generally to systems for rewarding influencers in a Web 2.0 environment. More specifically, in some implementations, a system is configured to assess an influence of an electronically-accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party, and may also be configured to facilitate a reward to one or more influencers based on one or more assessed influences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831973&OS=08831973&RS=08831973
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08831973
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081031
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s 

For purposes of the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO extra statutory requirements described more fully below the present application constitutes 

1. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 799 460 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 30 Apr. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

2. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 349 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 7 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

3. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 799 461 entitled DETERMINING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 30 Apr. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

4. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 402 entitled DETERMINING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 8 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

5. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 551 entitled REPORTING INFLUENCE ON A PERSON BY NETWORK AVAILABLE CONTENT filed Jun. 29 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

6. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 582 entitled COLLECTING INFLUENCE INFORMATION naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 29 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

7. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 906 537 entitled COLLECTING INFLUENCE INFORMATION naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 1 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

8. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 580 entitled DETERMINING AN INFLUENCE ON A PERSON BY WEB PAGES naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 29 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

9. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 881 800 entitled REWARDING INDEPENDENT INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 27 Jul. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

10. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 906 780 entitled REWARDING INDEPENDENT INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 2 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 290 310 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 28 Oct. 2008 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants both reference a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Electronic Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The present applicant entity has provided a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant entity understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part. Notwithstanding the foregoing applicant entity understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence applicant entity is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present disclosure relates generally to systems for rewarding influencers in a Web 2.0 environment. More specifically in some implementations a system is configured to assess an influence of an electronically accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party and may also be configured to facilitate a reward to one or more influencers based on one or more assessed influences.

As the communication network commonly known as the Web or Internet continues to evolve contemporary web development efforts are being directed toward improved Web based applications that improve user interaction functionality and utility. These development efforts widely referred to as Web 2.0 are leading to a surge of innovation and are resulting in a rapid evolution of the means through which electronic content is being provided and accessed on the Web. While desirable results are being achieved there remains a need to incentivize providers of electronically accessed content.

The present disclosure relates generally to rewarding influencers and more specifically to assessing an influence of an electronically accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party. In some implementations the assessment of the influence may be performed in a Web 2.0 environment and a provider of the electronically accessed content may be rewarded based on the assessed influence.

Techniques for rewarding influencers and more specifically for assessing an influence of an electronically accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party are disclosed. It should be appreciated that many specific details of certain implementations are set forth in the following description and in to provide a thorough understanding of such implementations. One skilled in the art will understand from the teachings of the present disclosure however that the present disclosure may have other possible implementations and that such other implementations may be practiced with without some of the details set forth in the following description.

Exemplary systems and environments in which various implementations in accordance with the present disclosure may be implemented are described in this section with reference to . It will be appreciated however that the following description of exemplary systems and environments is not exhaustive of all possible environments in which the teachings of the present disclosure may be implemented.

For example illustrates an exemplary system that includes a thin computing device which may be included in an electronic device that also includes a device functional element . For example the electronic device may include any item having electrical and or electronic components playing a role in a functionality of the item such as a limited resource computing device an electronic pen a handheld electronic writing device a digital camera a scanner an ultrasound device an x ray machine a non invasive imaging device a cell phone a printer a refrigerator a car and an airplane. The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM and or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface which may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

In a configuration the server typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . System memory typically includes operating system platform and one or more program modules running on an operating system. In addition to the program modules a server application may also be running on the operating system. The server application may be operable to deliver electronic content and or files to applications via a protocol and may include and or interact with other computing devices application servers applications and application interfaces APIs residing in other applications. For example the server application may include a Web server operable to deliver Web pages and or electronic content to Web browser applications via HTTP protocols.

The server may have additional features or functionality. For example the server may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable as illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. The server may include input device s and output device s . The server also contains communication connections that allow the device to communicate with and perform a service associated with a network including communicating with other servers and or with other computing device s illustrated as other computing device s . Communication connections are one example of communication media.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The exemplary environment may also include one or more servers illustrated as a content server . In an embodiment the content server is operable to provide electronic content illustrated as eContent 1 and or eContent 2 to one or more client machines. In another embodiment the content server includes the server illustrated in . In a further embodiment the content server s includes a node in P2P and or a C2C network. The node may include the thin computing device illustrated in and or the computing device illustrated in . The exemplary environment may also include one or more third party sites illustrated as a third party site . The third party site may include a merchant site such as amazon.com for books a manufacturer site such as subaru.com for automobiles a religious institution such as catholic.org and or hinduism.com and or a political site such as rnc.org and or democrats.org. The exemplary environment may also include one or more search engine sites illustrated as a search engine site . The search engine site may include a general search engine site such as google.com and or live.com. In another embodiment the search engine site may include a topical search site such as HONMedhunt and or FindLaw.com.

The exemplary environment may also include an influence determinator machine an intermediary machine and or a page tag information processor . Each of these machines may be operable to receive data and or information gathered by at least one of the client machine the content server the third party site and or the network intermediary and to produce an output usable in assessing an influence on a person using the client machine by a content of the content server.

As further shown in one or more components of the network environment may cooperatively provide an electronic accessed content that may be accessed by the accessor or client machine . In some implementations the electronic accessed content may include one or more portions or components. For example in some implementations the electronic accessed content may include a mashup of similar or different portions or components or a plurality of mashups.

More specifically with continued reference to in some implementations the electronic accessed content may include one or more of the following components or types a content e.g. text audio visual video or other suitable content a widget e.g. clock weather monitor music provider news provider game entertainment provider story provider article provider stock market tracker etc. an external feed e.g. clock weather monitor music provider news provider game entertainment provider story provider article provider stock market tracker etc. a badge e.g. animal brand name musical group sports content humorous content entertainment content nationality content religious content affinity content affiliation content etc. a Rich Internet Application RIA e.g. virtual weather provider virtual experience provider news provider designer entertainment provider shopping facilitator analytical facilitator etc. an Application Programming Interface API e.g. file operations file references geometry and topology operations feature operations projects drawing and dimensional operations assembly operations user interfaces user preferences etc. a web service e.g. search service mapping service directions service spelling and grammar services etc. and a monitoring component e.g. tracking component access monitor registration component etc. . Of course in alternate implementations the electronic accessed content may include any other suitable components or content types.

The network environment further includes one or more Web 2.0 constructs which may be located or distributed on one or more components within the environment . For example in some implementations a Web 2.0 construct may be located on the network the accessor client machine the content server the third party site the network intermediary the search engine site the influence determinator machine or any other component of the network environment . As used herein the term Web 2.0 construct or machine implemented Web 2.0 construct may include a wide variety of constructs implemented in software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. For example a Web 2.0 construct may include a web based application a web service an asynchronous application an API an RIA application an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application a Flex application a Flash application a Web 2.0 engine or a mashup that includes one or more of the afore mentioned constructs.

As further shown in in some implementations the environment may include one or more additional communication devices . In will be appreciated that the communication devices may be a wide variety of suitable devices. For example in some implementations the communication device or may be a hand held device e.g. personal data assistant PDA global positioning system GPS radio television audio device audio visual device mobile communicator signal processor etc. a laptop or mobile computer A a cellular telephone B a desktop computer C a server D or any other suitable device E having the desired communication capabilities.

In some implementations the influence determiner may provide electronic content for access by the communication devices . In further implementations the environment may include one or more content providers . The content providers and the influence determiner may include a wide variety of suitable devices. For example in some implementations the content providers may include a server a database A a hand held device B e.g. personal data assistant PDA global positioning system GPS radio television audio device audio visual device mobile communicator signal processor etc. a laptop or mobile computer C a cellular telephone D a desktop computer E or any other suitable device E having the desired content providing capabilities.

In some implementations the infrastructure may include a variety of suitable components that cooperatively provide a wired or wireless communications functionality. Various exemplary communication components of the infrastructure are shown in for illustrative purposes. For example in some implementations the infrastructure may include one or more of the following a communications satellite an antenna tower a computer a communications dish a signal carrier and one or more networks . Alternately other communications components may be used. In particular implementations for example the infrastructure may include components that make up a Core Network CN and or a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN of a modern UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System .

As further illustrated in in some implementations the communication device includes one or more processors and one or more input output I O devices coupled to a system memory by a bus . Power may be provided to the components of the communication device via a power supply . The system bus of the communication device represents any of the several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The I O component may be configured to operatively communicate with one or more external components such as one or more components of the infrastructure one or more other communication devices the influence determiner one or more content providers or other communications networks such a cellular telephone network a satellite network an information network e.g. Internet intranet cellular network cable network fiber optic network LAN WAN etc. an infrared or radio wave communication network or any other suitable network.

The system memory may include computer readable media configured to store data and or program modules for implementing the techniques disclosed herein that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by the processor . For example the system memory may store a basic input output system BIOS an operating system one or more application programs e.g. a web browser a communications program etc. and program data that can be accessed by the processor for performing various tasks desired by a user of the communication device . The other communication devices of the environment may have an internal structure similar to or different than that of the communication device shown in .

The computer readable media included in the system memory can be any available media that can be accessed by the device including computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to and random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk ROM CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium including paper punch cards and the like which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the communication device .

Similarly communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF radio frequency infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Generally program modules executed on the communication devices the influence determiner or the content providers may include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as a native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environments. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations.

As shown in in some implementations the influence assessment component may include a communication component operatively communicating with an influence assessment component . In further implementations the influence assessment component may also include a content providing component a benefit facilitation component and a storage component . The various components of the influence assessment component may operatively communicate using known techniques to accomplish the desired functionalities described herein. In addition unless otherwise specified it will be appreciated that the various components of the influence assessment component may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof.

As further shown in the communication component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. storage devices or any other suitable desired sub components or sub systems to cooperatively perform the desired functionalities described herein. Although the portions and components of the communication component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

In some implementations the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to assess a novelty of an electronic accessed content relevant to the influence assessment. In further implementations the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to form a hypothesis relevant to the influence assessment. Similarly the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to transform and or aggregate at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence. In some implementations the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence. Further possible implementations and aspects of the influence assessment component are described more fully below.

Although such components are not shown in for the sake of clarity in some implementations the influence assessment component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices see . Again although the portions and components of the influence assessment component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

As shown in the content providing component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices . Again although the portions and components of the content providing component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

As shown in the benefit facilitation component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices . Again although the portions and components of the benefit facilitation component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

As shown in the storage component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices . Again although the portions and components of the storage component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

It should be appreciated that the exemplary systems and environments described above with reference to and are merely illustrative of a few of the many possible systems and environments in which the teachings of the present disclosure may be implemented and that the teachings herein are not limited to the particular systems and environments described above.

Exemplary processes for rewarding influencers in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure are described below with reference to . It will be appreciated however that the following description of exemplary processes is not exhaustive of all possible processes in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure.

For example is a flowchart of method of assessing an influence of an electronically accessed content in accordance with the present disclosure. More specifically in this implementation the method includes access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at . For example in a representative implementation access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving data indicating that a web browser associated with a particular consumer has accessed a particular website for a particular duration of time or that a mobile device e.g. cellular telephone has requested a download of a particular podcast of information.

The method further includes involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at . In some implementations the involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include for example receiving data indicating that the above mentioned consumer conducted a transaction with a particular vendor of goods or services or that a user of the aforesaid cellular telephone conducted business with a broker. It will be appreciated that a wide variety of machine implemented Web 2.0 constructs may be used for receiving the involvement information at including for example an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application an asynchronous application a Flash application a web service any other suitable Web 2.0 engine or content or construct or a mashup that includes one or more of the afore mentioned constructs.

As further shown in the method also includes assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at . For example in a representative implementation the assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include assessing whether the website accessed by the consumer using the browser was the primary reason the consumer purchased the good or service from the vendor or assessing whether the cell phone user s interaction with the broker was attributable to the podcast that was downloaded by the user. Of course many other representative scenarios in accordance with the method may be conceived.

It will be appreciated that receiving the access information at may occur in a variety of ways. For example in a method as shown in access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor may include data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at e.g. receiving data indicative of an accessing of a mashup of a web service related content and a blog related content .

More specifically data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at may include data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion relevant to the third party or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion relevant to the third party at . For example data may be received indicative of a consumer accessing a first product related content comparing a first brand of cameras Brand A to a second brand of cameras Brand B and also indicative of the consumer assessing a second product related content comparing the first and second brands of cameras Brand A and B the third party being a provider e.g. manufacturer wholesaler retailer advertiser etc. of either the Brand A camera or the Brand B camera.

Similarly data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at may include data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion the first electronic content including digital content that can be transmitted over a computer network at e.g. receiving data indicative of a searchbot accessing a first webpage or a second webpage the first webpage including digitized audio signals that are transmitted over the Internet . In some implementations data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at may include data indicative of an accessor viewing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at e.g. receiving data indicative of a media player viewing a mashup that provides a first viewable podcast and a second viewable podcast .

In addition as depicted by process shown in in some implementations data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at may include data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion the first network available electronic content including at least one of a static electronic content and or a dynamic electronic content at e.g. receiving data indicative of a browser accessing a webpage that provides a mashup of a sports team s schedule static content and an RSS feed of statistics and scores from the games that are or have been occurring throughout the country dynamic content .

It will be appreciated that receiving the involvement information at may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example as further shown in involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include data using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct indicative of at least one of an activity interaction purchase vote contribution and or relationship between the accessor and the third party at e.g. receiving involvement data using an asynchronous application indicative of a purchase and sale transaction between a consumer and a vendor . Similarly involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include data using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct indicative of a behavior by the accessor with respect to the third party at e.g. receiving involvement data using a mashup that indicates that a person recommended the services of an insurance provider to a friend .

In further implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include data using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct useable in inferring an involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. receiving data using an Ajax application that shows a cookie indicative of a consumer transaction was placed by the third party s website on the accessor s device .

Furthermore in a method as shown in involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include asynchronously involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at e.g. using an Ajax application or other asynchronous engine . In some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a web service at e.g. a web service that performs tracking and reporting of durations of time spent by web browsers accessing websites . Similarly in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a mashup that includes at least one web service at e.g. a mashup that provides both an Internet search service and a web service that performs tracking and reporting of durations of time spent by web browsers accessing websites .

In further implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application at e.g. an Ajax application that documents and reports podcasts downloaded to a platform or device . Similarly in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a mashup that includes at least one Ajax application at e.g. a mashup that includes both an offer to sell printed materials and an Ajax application that documents and reports podcasts downloaded to a platform or device .

As depicted in the process shown in in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a Flash application at e.g. a Flash application that provides animation or other enhanced interactive capabilities and that monitors or reports web browser activities . Similarly in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a mashup that includes at least one Flash application at e.g. a mashup that provides audio or visual content to a viewer and a Flash application that provides animation or other enhanced interactive capabilities and that monitors or reports web browser activities .

In further implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a mashup that include the electronic accessed content and at least one of a web service an Ajax application a Flash application an electronic content or another electronic accessed content at e.g. a mashup that includes a product review and an engine that monitors or reports web browser activities . Similarly in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using an open source machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at e.g. an open source engine that monitors or reports web browser activities or an open source application that documents access time durations . In further implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a user community modifiable machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at e.g. a user community modifiable construct that monitors or reports downloading or browsing activities and time durations .

In some implementations such as a process shown in involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of at least one of a publicly available electronic accessed content a limited availability electronic accessed content or a privately available electronic accessed content at . For example the receiving of the access information at may include receiving an email message documenting a patron s accessing history of a publicly available electronic library a limited availability electronic library e.g. available only to registered patrons or pay per view patrons or a privately available electronic library e.g. a library owned by a club or corporation .

Similarly in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of at least one of a digital content a textual content a graphical content an audio content a pictorial content a video content a streaming content an RSS Really Simple Syndication content an HTML HyperText Markup Language content an XML Extensible Markup Language content a human perceivable content or a machine readable content at e.g. receiving electronic signals indicating a user s accessing of graphical content from a news related service .

As further shown in in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include at least one of a user input a keystroke a navigation command a mouse movement a caching information a session information and or a visit information at . For example the at least one of a user input a keystroke a navigation command a mouse movement a caching information a session information and or a visit information may include information associated with incidental to and or responsive to one or more of user mouse movements scrolling movements purchases operations visited Websites visited blogs page views page visits viewing time repeat visits page tags printing a content click stream search strings local search strings interactions scrolling menu activity corresponding related to browsing the Internet cut and past print history browsing history email cookies user keystrokes logged keystrokes along with the window name they are typed email sent email received logged events logged timeline Website activity logged Websites visited application usage log of applications run documents opened saved documents files opened files viewed cut cut and paste scrolling navigating and setting a bookmark. In further implementations the access information may include data indicative of a computing system environment a local computing system interaction associated with the client side computing device a network interaction including bulk content downloaded to form a page a turning of visibility tags on and off and or an interactive environment.

In further implementations access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a user s viewing of visual content from a mashup that includes a Web based information service . More specifically in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of a web service by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a user s viewing of visual content from a Web based information service .

As depicted in a process shown in in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a mashup that includes at least one web service at e.g. receiving information indicating a mobile device s downloading of audio content from a mashup that includes an RSS service . In further implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a PDA Personal Data Assistant access of an Ajax application from a website that provides Internet search services . Similarly access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a mashup that includes at least one Ajax application at e.g. receiving information indicating a PDA Personal Data Assistant access of a mashup that includes an Ajax application from a website that provides Internet search services .

As further shown in in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of a Flash application by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a computer access of an animation related Flash application from a website that offers books or other printed materials for sale . In further implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a mashup that includes at least one Flash application at e.g. receiving information indicating a computer access of a mashup that includes an animation related Flash application from a website that offers services for sale .

In some implementations such as a process shown in access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of a Web 2.0 electronic content by an accessor at e.g. receiving a report indicating an accessing of an electronic article by a potential consumer . In further implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a mashup that includes at least one Web 2.0 electronic content at e.g. receiving a report indicating an accessing by a potential consumer of a mashup from a provider of advertising that includes an electronic article . Similarly access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a mashup that includes the machine implemented Web 2.0 construct and at least one of a web service an Ajax application a Flash application an electronic content or another machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at e.g. receiving documentation indicating an accessing by a potential consumer of a mashup from a provider of advertising that includes an Ajax application and a web service that facilitates an RIA Rich Internet Application .

As further shown in access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of an open source machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a browser of an open source Ajax application . In still other implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing of a user community modifiable machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a device of a user community modifiable asynchronous interface engine .

With reference now to in a process access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and at least one of another web service an Ajax application a Flash application or an electronic content at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a potential consumer of a combination of a Flash application that shows animation of a product in operation . Similarly in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a potential consumer of a combination of a consumer advocacy service and an article regarding particular products or services .

It will be appreciated that access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at may include numerous particular implementations. For example as further shown in in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a social networking combination at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by an individual of an Ajax application in combination with content related to potential dating partners . Similarly in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a medical record networking combination at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by an nurse of an asynchronous engine in combination with electronic information relating to patient medical history .

In further implementations access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of an insurance claim networking combination at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a claims adjustor of an application in combination with electronic information relating to vehicle repairs . Similarly access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a transportation fleet networking combination at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a planner of an application in combination with electronic information relating to aircraft availability . In further implementations access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a combination of a web service and an electronic content at may include access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of an investment related networking combination at e.g. receiving information indicating an accessing by a broker of a web service in combination with electronic information relating to stock prices .

In some implementations the electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may be performed by the same entity that performs the involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at . For example in some implementations an entity that provides the electronic accessed content for access by the accessor and that receives involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct may include an online retailer an online search provider an information broker an advertiser a web service provider or any other suitable entity.

It will be appreciated that electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example in a method as shown in electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at includes asynchronously electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at e.g. providing the electronic accessed content using an asynchronous engine . Similarly in some implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include a mashup of the electronic accessed content with at least one other subject matter for access by the accessor at e.g. providing a technical brochure mashed up with an HTML article . In further implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include a mashup of the electronic accessed content with at least one of a web service an Ajax application a Flash application an electronic content or another electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at e.g. providing a technical brochure mashed up with an RSS service .

In further implementations such as a process shown in electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content via a Rich Internet Application RIA for access by the accessor at e.g. providing an editorial content using an interactive Flash application . More specifically in some implementations electronic accessed content via a Rich Internet Application RIA for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content for access by the accessor via an RIA that transfers a user interface related processing to the accessor at e.g. providing an editorial content using an interactive Flash application loaded onto a viewer s device that handles interface related processing . Similarly in some implementations electronic accessed content via a Rich Internet Application RIA for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content for access by the accessor via an RIA that maintains data regarding a state of the RIA on an RIA server at e.g. providing an editorial content using an interactive Flash application on a server that hosts the Flash application and maintains state data thereon .

In further implementations electronic accessed content via a Rich Internet Application RIA for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content for access by the accessor via an RIA operable in a web browser at e.g. providing an editorial content using an interactive Flash application operable in Microsoft s Internet Explorer . Similarly in some implementations electronic accessed content via a Rich Internet Application RIA for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content for access by the accessor via an RIA operable to run in a secure environment locally relative to the accessor at e.g. providing an editorial content using a Mocha application operable in to run in a sandbox environment on a mobile device .

As shown in in further implementations e.g. process electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include may include electronic accessed content for access by the accessor via a Document Object Model DOM at e.g. providing an audio packet using a DOM based Ajax application . In other implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content for access by the accessor via a web browser operable to render content using a DOM at e.g. providing a video stream using a DOM renderable version of Google s Chrome browser .

Similarly in some implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include electronic accessed content for access by an accessor via an engine loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. providing an mpeg file using an asynchronous engine loaded on a viewer s mobile device . More specifically in particular implementations electronic accessed content for access by an accessor via an engine loaded locally relative to the accessor at may include via an Ajax application loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. providing an mpeg file using an Ajax based engine loaded on a viewer s mobile device .

As shown in in further implementations e.g. a process electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include via an engine operable to render an interface accessible to the accessor at e.g. providing an electronic communication using an application that performs menu related functions . Similarly electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include via an engine operable to communicate with a server that hosts the electronic accessed content at e.g. providing an electronic communication using an application that performs content fetching functions . In other implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include up the electronic accessed content with at least one of a web service an Ajax application a Flash application an electronic content or another electronic accessed content at e.g. mashing up an electronic communication with an advertising service .

In still other implementations such as process shown in access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include access information from a monitoring component that is external relative to a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving a signal from a tracking cookie installed on the accessor s device . Similarly access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at access information from a monitoring component that is local relative to a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving a signal from an inwardly looking application installed on a server that hosts the electronic accessed content .

In further implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include access information from an engine loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. receiving data from an Applet installed on a laptop of the accessor . In addition electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include access information via an Ajax application loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. receiving data from an Ajax application installed on a computing device of the accessor . Similarly electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include access information via an engine operable to render an interface accessible to the accessor at e.g. receiving information from an interface rendering Ajax application installed on a computing device of the accessor . In still other implementations electronic accessed content for access by the accessor at may include access information via an engine operable to communicate with a server that hosts the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving information from a content rendering Applet installed on a computing device of the accessor .

Referring now to it may be noted that assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may be performed in a variety of suitable ways. For example in some implementations such as a process assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine the assessed influence using an assessment component that is external relative to a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. determining the assessed influence using software operated by a third party on a third party computing device . Similarly in some implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine the assessed influence using an assessment component that is local relative to a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. determining the assessed influence using software operating on the computing device of the accessor .

In still other implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine the assessed influence using an engine loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. determining the assessed influence using an asynchronously operating application operating on a mobile device of the accessor . Similarly assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine the assessed influence using an Ajax application loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. determining the assessed influence using an Ajax application operating on a mobile device of the accessor . In further implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine the assessed influence using an engine operable to render an interface accessible to the accessor at e.g. determining the assessed influence using an interface rendering Applet . And in still other implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine the assessed influence using an engine operable to communicate with a server that hosts the electronic accessed content at e.g. determining the assessed influence using a content fetching Applet .

It will be appreciated that provide an indication of the assessed influence at may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example in a process shown in provide an indication of the assessed influence at may include influence assessment component configured to provide an indication of the assessed influence for determining a benefit to a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. notifying the theater of the influence level from which the theater may decide to provide free passes to an author of the movie review article . In some implementations provide an indication of the assessed influence at may include for determining a ranking of the electronic accessed content at e.g. notifying the theater of the influence level from which the theater may decide whether to cite the movie review article in a future press release . Similarly provide an indication of the assessed influence at may include to at least one of a provider of the electronic accessed content an owner of the electronic accessed content an aggregator of the electronic accessed content a recipient of the access information a recipient of the involvement information the third party the accessor or an interested party at e.g. notifying an electronic news provider of the influence level of the movie review article .

As further shown in in some implementations provide an indication of the assessed influence at includes to a component operable to determine a benefit to a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. notifying a software application of the influence level from which the software application may decide to provide free passes to an author of the movie review article . It will be appreciated that to a component operable to determine a benefit to a provider of the electronic accessed content at may be accomplished in a variety of suitable ways. For example in some implementations to a component operable to determine a benefit to a provider of the electronic accessed content at may include to an entity operable to determine a benefit to at least one of a creator of the electronic accessed content an owner of the electronic accessed content an aggregator of the electronic accessed content a provider of the electronic accessed content a facilitator of the electronic accessed content or a host of the electronic accessed content at e.g. notifying a software application of the influence level from which the software application may decide to provide free passes to an electronic news service that provided the movie review article .

It will be appreciated that facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example in a process shown in facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of at least one of a compensation privilege and or reward to at least one of an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence at e.g. recommending a credit for future goods or services be provided to an owner of the first electronic content based on an assessed influence that exceeds a predetermined threshold . Similarly facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of a benefit to an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence by a first electronic content and or a second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party a measure of the benefit determined by at least one of another accessor and or the third party at e.g. offering a service provided by an information broker at a reduced rate to an owner of a news article based on an assessed influence of the news article the information broker determining that the reduced rate is 75 of a normal rate for the service . In further implementations facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of a benefit to an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party the benefit responsive to a benefit determination algorithm at e.g. providing a discount on flights of a particular airline to an owner of a travel agency based on a weighting formula that determines the amount of flights booked by the travel agency on the particular airline in comparison with the total amount of flights booked by all travel agencies .

In addition as depicted by a process shown in facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of a benefit to an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party wherein at least one owner includes at least one of an author a content author a putative content author an assignee a designee a delegee a poster a creator an editor an associate a sponsor a host an aggregator a website owner a server owner a group and or a cohort at e.g. transferring funds into a bank account of an organizer of a webcast event by an advertiser based on a determination that a viewer of a mashup of the webcast event and an advertisement influenced a purchase by the viewer of the advertiser s goods . In some implementations facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of a first benefit to an owner of a first electronic content and a second benefit to an owner of a second electronic content in response to an assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party a difference between the first benefit and the second benefit responsive to an evaluation of an influence of the first electronic content and or an evaluation of an influence of the second electronic content at e.g. providing a relatively smaller rate reduction on goods to a first author of a consumer report providing a moderately positive endorsement of a product and a relatively larger rate reduction on goods to a second author of a consumer report providing a highly positive endorsement of the product the difference between the larger and smaller rate reductions being based on an evaluation of the relative influence of the consumer reports by the first and second authors .

As shown in a process illustrated in in some implementations facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of a first benefit to an owner of a first electronic content and a second benefit to an owner of a second electronic content in response to an assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party a difference between the first benefit and the second benefit responsive to at least one of a scaling a weighting a synthesis and or an analysis of an influence of the first electronic content and or an evaluation of an influence of the second electronic content at e.g. sending first and second compensations to first and second content providers respectively a difference between the first and second compensations being based on relative percentages of gross sales attributable to influences by the first and second contents . Similarly in some implementations facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of a benefit to an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. sending a percentage of profit to a provider of a map generating service by a real estate agency that provides a mashup of real estate listings combined with the map generating service to potential buyers based on an assessed influence of the map generating service on actual sales of real estate to actual buyers .

More specifically as illustrated by a process shown in in some implementations delivery of a benefit to an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at may include delivery of a first benefit to an owner of the first electronic content and a second benefit to an owner of the second electronic content in response to an assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party a difference between the first benefit and the second benefit responsive to an evaluation of an influence of the first electronic content and or an evaluation of an influence of the second electronic content a difference between the first benefit and the second benefit responsive to a novelty added by the first electronic content and or a novelty added by the second electronic content at e.g. providing first and second compensations to first and second authors of scientific content based on evaluations of the respective influences of the scientific contents provided by the first and second authors on sales of scientific equipment the influence evaluations being responsive to relative amounts of novel contributions to a particular scientific field provided by the first and second authors respectively . Similarly delivery of a benefit to an owner of a first electronic content or an owner of a second electronic content in response to the assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at may include delivery of a first benefit to an owner of the first electronic content and a second benefit to an owner of the second electronic content in response to an assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the person and the third party the first benefit and the second benefit respectively responsive to an evaluation of an influence of the first electronic content and or an evaluation of an influence of the second electronic content at e.g. providing first and second compensations to first and second authors of astronomy related content based on first and second evaluations of the respective influences of the astronomy related contents provided by the first and second authors on sales of astronomy related literature .

Similarly in a process shown in facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include a benefit based at least partially on the assessed influence to at least one of a creator of the electronic accessed content an owner of the electronic accessed content an aggregator of the electronic accessed content a provider of the electronic accessed content a facilitator of the electronic accessed content or a host of the electronic accessed content at e.g. providing a quantity of free web services to an online search provider that facilitates access to electronic accessed content based on an assessment of the influence of the electronic accessed content on an accessor s usage of the web service . Similarly in some implementations facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include a benefit to an entity based at least partially on a novelty attributable to a portion of the electronic accessed content provided by the entity at e.g. facilitating a compensation to an aggregator of movie reviews based on a novelty of the content provided by the aggregator .

As shown in in some implementations a benefit to at least one entity based at least partially on at least one of a first influence attributable to a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second influence attributable to a second portion of the electronic accessed content at may include a first benefit to a first provider of a first portion of the electronic accessed content based at least partially on a first influence and a second benefit to a second provider of a second portion of the electronic accessed content based at least partially on a second influence at e.g. calculating a first quantum of compensation to an advertiser based on a first influence attributable to an advertisement portion of a website and calculating a second quantum of compensation to an author based on a second influence attributable to an instructional how to portion of the website . In further implementations a benefit to at least one entity based at least partially on at least one of a first influence attributable to a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second influence attributable to a second portion of the electronic accessed content at may include a difference between a first benefit provided to a first provider of a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second benefit provided to a second provider of a second portion of the electronic accessed content based at least partially on the first and second influences at e.g. calculating a difference between a first quantum of compensation provided to an advertiser and a second quantum of compensation to an author of an instructional how to portion of the website based at least partially on the first and second influences . In still other implementations a benefit to at least one entity based at least partially on at least one of a first influence attributable to a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second influence attributable to a second portion of the electronic accessed content at may include a difference between a first benefit provided to a first provider of a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second benefit provided to a second provider of a second portion of the electronic accessed content based at least partially on a novelty attributable to at least one of the first and second portions of the electronic accessed content at e.g. calculating a difference between a first quantum of compensation provided to an advertiser and a second quantum of compensation to an author of an instructional how to portion of the website based at least partially on a novelty attributable to the advertisement portion and the how to portion of the website .

With reference to in some implementations such as a process involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include data indicative of an affinity of the accessor at e.g. receiving data indicating that the accessor prefers to purchase products manufactured in the United States . More specifically data indicative of an affinity of the accessor at may include data indicative of at least one of an express affinity and or an inferred affinity of the accessor at e.g. receiving data indicative of a consumer s track record of purchasing products promoted by females over competing products promoted by males . In further implementations data indicative of an affinity of the accessor at may include data indicative of at least one of an affinity characteristic and or an affiliation of the accessor at e.g. receiving data indicative of a listener s membership on an organizing committee of the Earshot Jazz Festival in Seattle .

As illustrated by a process shown in in some implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include data gathered through a process running on a content site indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input at e.g. receiving download records from a monitoring component operating on a site that provides ringtones regarding ringtones downloaded from the site to a person s mobile communication device . More specifically data gathered through a process running on a content site indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input at may include data related to at least one of a transaction a history a search string a search result and or a computing device action associated with the computing device at e.g. receiving records from a monitoring component operating on an online driving directions site showing that directions were downloaded from the site to a person s mobile communication device . In some implementations data gathered through a process running on a content site indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input at may include data indicative of communication between the computing device and at least one of the content site a search engine site or a beneficiary site at e.g. receiving records from a monitoring component operating on an online search engine site showing search strings entered on the search engine site by a person s computing device . Similarly data gathered through a process running on a content site indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input at may include data indicative of the computing device receiving at least one of a document a review a critique a comment a rating an aggregation of reviews an aggregation of comments an aggregation of critiques a consumer generated media a blog a news article a message or a discussion forum at e.g. receiving records from a monitoring component operating on an online news site showing download histories of reviews and articles downloaded from the site to a person s personal data assistant .

In further implementations such as a process shown in data gathered through a process running on a content site indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input at may include data indicative of communication related to at least one of a program resident on the computing device a process registered with an operating system of the computing device a cookie present in the computing device an affinity data indicative of an affinity of the human user and or an information descriptive of an aspect of the computing device at e.g. receiving records from a monitoring component operating on an online driving directions site showing that directions were downloaded from the site to a navigational program residing on a person s mobile communication device . In some implementations data gathered through a process running on a content site indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input at may include beneficiary site data indicative of at least one of communication associated with a purchase communication associated with a vote communication associated with a find raising and or communication associated with a transaction between the computing device and the beneficiary site at e.g. receiving contribution records from a radio station such as a publicly funded radio station indicative of a donation associated provided from the computing device to the radio station .

As shown in in some implementations such as a process assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a correlation between a communication between a content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and a communication between the computing device and a beneficiary site at e.g. determining a high probability correlation between a consumer viewing a product review on a site of an information broker and the consumer s subsequent purchase of the product and an on line retail site . In some implementations the process may further include delivery of a compensation to a provider of the content site in response to the determined correlation at e.g. performing an online deposit to a bank account of an owner of electronic assessed content based on a high probability correlation or informational data corresponding to the determined correlation at e.g. storing data regarding purchase and sale transaction correlations in a memory or both at .

It may be noted that access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at of may occur in other ways. For example in some implementations such as a process shown in access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include a first access information indicative of an accessing of a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second access information indicative of an accessing of a second portion of the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving first data indicative of an accessing of a first product review of an aggregation of product reviews and receiving a second data indicative of an accessing of a second product review of the aggregation of product reviews . Similarly in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include a first access information indicative of an accessing of a first portion of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct provided by a first provider and a second access information indicative of an accessing of a second portion of the machine implemented Web 2.0 construct provided by a second provider at e.g. receiving first data indicative of an accessing of a web service portion of a mashup of content and receiving second data indicative of an accessing of a Flash application portion of the mashup of content .

Similarly involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at of may be accomplished in a variety of additional ways. For example in some implementations such as a process shown in involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include a first involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party attributable to a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party attributable to a second portion of the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving first data indicative of a first period spent by a consumer shopping at an online retail facility attributable to a first article from an aggregation of product related articles and receiving second data indicative of a second period spent by the consumer shopping at the online retail facility attributable to a second article from the aggregation . Similarly in further implementations involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include a first involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party attributable to a first portion of the electronic accessed content provided by a first provider and a second involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party attributable to a second portion of the electronic accessed content provided by a second provider at e.g. receiving first data indicative of a first surfing period spent by a potential soldier surfing information on goarmy.com attributable to a first promotional piece of an aggregation of pieces provided by a former soldier and receiving second data indicative of a second surfing period spent by the potential soldier attributable to a second promotional piece of the aggregation provided by a current soldier .

In still other implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information e.g. at may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example in some implementations such as a process shown in assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first influence of a first portion of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party and a second influence of a second portion of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. assessing a first influence of a first product review from a consumer e magazine on an automobile purchase between a buyer and a dealership and assessing a second influence of a second product review from the consumer e magazine on the automobile purchase . In further implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first influence of a first portion of the electronic accessed content provided by a first provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party provided and a second influence of a second portion of the electronic accessed content provided by a second provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. assessing a first influence of a first product review from a consumer e magazine provided by a consumer watchdog group on an automobile purchase between a buyer and a dealership and assessing a second influence of a second product review from the consumer e magazine provided by an automotive test group on the automobile purchase . Similarly assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first novelty attributable to a first portion of the electronic accessed content and a second novelty attributable to a second portion of the electronic accessed content at e.g. assessing a first novelty attributable to a first product review from a consumer e magazine and assessing a second novelty attributable to a second product review from the consumer e magazine .

As illustrated in in some implementations e.g. process assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determine a correlation between a communication between a content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and a communication between the computing device and a beneficiary site at e.g. determining that a download regarding rental products from a server to a handheld device is correlated to a rental of the rental product from a rental provider . More specifically in some implementations determine a correlation between a communication between a content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and a communication between the computing device and a beneficiary site at may include at least one of estimate approximate and or infer a correlation between the communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and the communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and the beneficiary site at e.g. inferring that an upload regarding the attributes of product A from a server to a handheld device is correlated to a purchase of product A from a retailer .

Similarly determine a correlation between a communication between a content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and a communication between the computing device and a beneficiary site at may include determine at least one of a linear correlation a relationship a non linear correlation a fuzzy correlation and or a fuzzy relationship between a the communication between the content site and the computing device responsive to a human user input and b the communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and the beneficiary site at e.g. determining that a length of time spent by the accessor browsing a content regarding the attributes of product A is linearly related to a purchase of product A by the accessor from a retailer . In further implementations determine a correlation between a communication between a content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and a communication between the computing device and a beneficiary site at may include determine a degree of correlation between 1 events associatable with the person using a client side computing device to access electronic content and 2 an involvement between the person and a subject of interest to the third party at e.g. determining a strong correlation between an accessor s browsing of content regarding the attributes of service X and the accessor s subsequent purchase of service Y from a service retailer .

In still other implementations such as a process shown in assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include form a hypothesis from among one or more influence scenarios at e.g. forming a hypothesis that the accessor was strongly influenced from among several possible influence levels . Similarly assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first influence of a first electronic accessed content provided by a first provider based at least partially on the first access information at e.g. deciding that the accessor s involvement is strongly correlated with the involvement from among several possible correlation levels .

In other implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include transform at least one of the access information and the involvement information to facilitate an assessment of a correlation between the accessing of the electronic accessed content by the accessor and the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. filtering outlying instances of the access information and the involvement information to improve the correlation assessment between the accessing and the involvement . Further assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include aggregate at least one of the access information and the involvement information to facilitate an assessment of a correlation between the accessing of the electronic accessed content by the accessor and the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. compiling historical data regarding the access information and the involvement information to improve the correlation assessment between the accessing and the involvement .

In some implementations such as a process shown in assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence at e.g. deleting identifying information regarding an identity of the accessor from the access information and the involvement information . More specifically anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence at may include anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence in response to a privacy restriction indicated by at least one of the accessor a selected privacy setting a platform owner the third party or another party at e.g. deleting identifying information regarding an identity of the accessor from the access information and the involvement information in accordance with a privacy policy election by the accessor .

In other implementations anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence at may include reduce a presence of data useable in identifying at least one of the accessor or the third party at e.g. generalizing identity information regarding the accessor to a general type of accessor and generalizing identity information regarding the third party to a general type of third party from the access information and the involvement information . In further implementations anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence at may include reduce a presence of data useable in identifying at least one of a password a credit card a cost a payment information a proprietary business information and or a personal information associated with at least one of the accessor or the third party at e.g. redacting information regarding details of a consumer transaction between the accessor and the third party from the access information and the involvement information .

In yet another implementation a process shown in may include access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at e.g. receiving hit access time or cursor hovering information associated with an accessor involvement information using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct the involvement information being indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at e.g. receiving information indicating a commercial transaction between a consumer and a provider assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at e.g. assessing that the accessed content had a moderate influence on the commercial transaction between a consumer and a provider and facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at e.g. adding points to an account of a provider of the accessed content commensurate with the moderate influence .

More specifically in some implementations access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include a first access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a first electronic accessed content provided by a first provider and a second access information indicative of an accessing by the accessor of a second electronic accessed content provided by a second provider at . Similarly assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first influence of a first electronic accessed content provided by a first provider based at least partially on the first access information and a second influence of a second electronic accessed content provided by a second provider based at least partially on the second access information at . And in some implementations facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include at least one of a first benefit to the first provider based at least partially on the first access information or a second benefit to the second provider based at least partially on the second access information at .

As further shown in in other implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first influence of a first electronic accessed content provided by a first provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party and a second influence of a second electronic accessed content provided by a second provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at . Similarly in some implementations assess an influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include a first influence of a first content site provided by a first provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party and a second influence of a second content site provided by a second provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at . In addition facilitate a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the assessed influence at may include delivery of at least one of a first benefit to the first provider based at least partially on the first assessed influence or a second benefit to the second provider based at least partially on the second assessed influence at .

It should be appreciated that the particular embodiments of systems and processes described herein are merely possible implementations of the present disclosure and that the present disclosure is not limited to the particular implementations described herein and shown in the accompanying figures. For example in alternate implementations certain acts need not be performed in the order described and may be modified and or may be omitted entirely depending on the circumstances. Moreover in various implementations the acts described may be implemented by a computer controller processor programmable device or any other suitable device and may be based on instructions stored on one or more computer readable media or otherwise stored or programmed into such devices. In the event that computer readable media are used the computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a device to implement the instructions stored thereon.

Various methods systems and techniques may be described and implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more processors or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various alternate embodiments. In addition embodiments of these methods systems and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media.

It may also be appreciated that there may be little distinction between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems and methods disclosed herein. The use of hardware or software may generally be a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs however in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes systems and technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software firmware or combinations thereof and that a preferred vehicle may vary depending upon the context in which the processes systems and technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle. Alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation. In still other implementations the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected and which may be desired over another may be a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use standard engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into workable systems having the described functionality. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be developed into a workable system via a reasonable amount of experimentation.

The herein described aspects and drawings illustrate different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled or operatively connected or operatively coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable or operatively couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in standard integrated circuits and also as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers and also as one or more software programs running on one or more processors and also as firmware as well as virtually any combination thereof. It will be further understood that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware could be accomplished by a person skilled in the art in light of the teachings and explanations of this disclosure.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. For example in some embodiments several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in standard integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

As a further example of open terms in the present specification and claims it will be understood that usage of a language construction A or B is generally interpreted as a non exclusive open term meaning A alone B alone and or A and B together.

Although various features have been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit or scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein.

