---

title: Identification of bacterial autoinducer and use in treating bacterial pathogenicity
abstract: A bacterial autoinducer, CAI-1, was purified and its structure identified. Methods for synthesis of the autoinducer and its analogues were elucidated. Methods of using the autoinducer or its analogues for treating bacterial pathogenicity and bio film formation are described. Methods for prevention and treatment of cholera are described. Synthetic (S)-3-hydroxytridecan-4-one functions as well as natural CAI-1 in repressing production of the virulence factor toxin co-regulated pilus (TCP). Strategies are described to manipulate bacterial quorum sensing in the clinical arena.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08535689&OS=08535689&RS=08535689
owner: The Trustees of Princeton University
number: 08535689
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081001
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 60 976 587 filed Oct. 1 2007 and U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61 189 844 filed Aug. 22 2008 which are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference.

The invention was made with government support under grants from the National Institutes of Health NIH 2R01 GM065859 05A1 and the National Science Foundation NSF MCB 0639855 and with support from the HHMI. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Bacterial communities track changes in their population densities by producing releasing and detecting diffusible signalling molecules called autoinducers. This process is called quorum sensing as described in Miller M. B. and Bassler B. L. Quorum sensing in bacteria. 55 165 199 2001 and Waters C. M. and Bassler B. L. Quorum sensing cell to cell communication in bacteria. 21 319 346 2005 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. Population wide responses of the bacteria to the accumulation of autoinducers shape group behaviors such as biofilm formation virulence factor expression bioluminescence and sporulation as described in Davies D. G. et al. The involvement of cell to cell signals in the development of a bacterial biofilm. 280 295 298 1998 Passador L. Cook J. M. Gambello M. J. Rust L. and Iglewski B. H. Expression of virulence genes requires cell to cell communication. 260 1127 1130 1993 Eberhard A. et al. Structural identification of autoinducer of luciferase. 20 2444 2449 1981 and Solomon J. M. Lazazzera B. A. and Grossman A. D. Purification and characterization of an extracellular peptide factor that affects two different developmental pathways in 10 2014 2024 1996 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. bacteria use two parallel quorum sensing systems to assess population density as described in Miller M. B. Skorupski K. Lenz D. H. Taylor R. K. and Bassler B. L. Parallel quorum sensing systems converge to regulate virulence in 110 303 314 2002 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. In one system the CqsS receptor responds to a molecule called Autoinducer 1 CAI 1 which is produced by the enzyme CqsA. CqsS is the quorum sensing Sensor and CqsA is the quorum sensing Autoinducer synthase enzyme. In the second system the LuxPQ receptor complex responds to the autoinducer 2 AI 2 molecule made by the LuxS enzyme. These two autoinducers CAI 1 and AI 2 function synergistically to control gene regulation. CAI 1 is produced by several species suggesting that it functions as an intra genus signal whereas AI 2 is produced and detected by a wide variety of bacteria and is presumed to facilitate interspecies communication as described in Henke J. M. and Bassler B. L. Three parallel quorum sensing systems regulate gene expression in 186 6902 6914 2004 and Xavier K. B. and Bassler B. L. LuxS quorum sensing more than just a numbers game. 6 191 197 2003 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. AI 2 is a set of interconverting molecules all derived from the precursor S 4 5 dihydroxypentane 2 3 dione DPD as described in Schauder S. Shokat K. Surette M. G. and Bassler B. L. The LuxS family of bacterial autoinducers biosynthesis of a novel quorum sensing signal molecule. 41 463 476 2001 and Miller S. T. et al. recognizes a chemically distinct form of the bacterial quorum sensing signal AI 2. 15 677 687 2004 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. In the Vibrios the active AI 2 moiety is the furanosylborate diester 2S 4S 2 methyl 2 3 3 4 tetrahydroxytetrahydrofuran borate. CAI 1 has a much more dramatic influence on target gene expression than AI 2 and is therefore the major quorum sensing signal in as described in Miller et al. 2002 .

The prevalence of cholera disease in developing nations and the rise of antibiotic resistant strains of is a recognized health problem as described in Wang L. H. et al. A bacterial cell cell communication signal with cross kingdom structural analogueues. 51 903 912 2004 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. On a broader scale a wide spectrum of bacterial diseases are known which require new therapeutic strategies as bacteria develop antibiotic resistance. It would be beneficial if rather than searching for new antibiotics a new therapeutic strategy were to be formulated for these bacterial diseases. On a still broader scale bacterial pathogens infect animals and there is a need to control these animal diseases. For example and closely related species are pathogens of shrimp molluscs and fish. There is a strong need to develop compounds and strategies to control pathogens of food animals such as those in the aquaculture industry. Thus on the broad scale there is a need to develop strategies to manipulate quorum sensing controlled processes in bacteria.

In one aspect the invention provides an isolated compound that has autoinducer activity in bacteria wherein the compound is an hydroxyketone having a CH3CH2CH OH unit bonded to an unbranched alkyl chain. In a preferred embodiment the compound contains from eight to thirteen carbons.

In another aspect the invention provides a compound having the capability to function as a bacterial autoinducer in the CAI 1 quorum sensing pathway. The compound is S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one or an analogue. In one embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising the compound wherein the composition inhibits virulence in . The invention further relates to use of the composition in the manufacture of a medicament for treating cholera. In another embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising the compound wherein the composition inhibits bio film formation.

In a related aspect the invention relates to a method of inhibiting quorum sensing dependent activity in spp. comprising contacting the bacteria with an effective amount of the compound. In various embodiments the quorum sensing dependent activity is bio film formation or pathogenicity. In a preferred embodiment the pathogenicity is caused by production of a virulence factor. In a particularly preferred embodiment the virulence factor is toxin co regulated pilus TCP . In an alternative embodiment the method is for treating cholera comprising contacting bacteria with the compound. In a preferred embodiment the invention relates to a method for repressing pathogenicity comprising contacting bacteria with the compound and with S 4 5 dihydroxypentane 2 3 dione DPD .

In another aspect the invention relates to a method of preparing an hydroxyketone compound having a CH3CH2CH OH unit bonded to a long unbranched alkyl chain comprising 1 introducing a cqsA gene into 2 culturing the in bacterial culture medium 3 removing the from the bacterial culture medium after culturing to produce a cell free bacterial culture medium and 4 purifying a fraction having CAI 1 activity from the cell free bacterial culture medium.

In preferred embodiments of the above aspects the bacteria are spp. and in a particularly preferred embodiment the bacteria are . In other preferred embodiments the compound is the S or R stereoisomer of 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one or is an analogue wherein the analogue differs in the long unbranched alkyl chain by having a C9 acyl or C8 acyl unit in place of the C10 acyl unit of 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one. In a particularly preferred embodiment the compound is S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one. In another embodiment the compound is an analogue of S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one.

At low cell density in the absence of autoinducers expresses virulence factors and forms biofilms as described in Miller et al. 2002 Hammer B. K. and Bassler B. L. Quorum sensing controls biofilm formation in 50 101 104 2003 and Zhu J. and Mekalanos J. J. Quorum sensing dependent biofilms enhance colonization in 5 647 656 2003 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. This pattern of gene expression enables host colonization and contributes to persistence in the environment. In the presence of autoinducers at high cell density quorum sensing represses both virulence factor expression and bio film formation. These events are proposed to allow to exit the host re enter the environment in large numbers and initiate a new cycle of infection.

Structural identification of CAI 1 shows that it is an hydroxyketone and thus a new type of autoinducer. A standard activity curve was developed using synthetic CAI 1 that allowed the autoinducer concentration in high cell density cell free culture fluids to be estimated as being 1.25 M data not shown . This is well in line with the concentrations and signalling activities of other bacterial autoinducers which range from low micromolar homoserine lactones to nanomolar AI 2 as described in Eberhard et al. 1981 and Neiditch M. B. et al. Ligand induced asymmetry in histidine sensor kinase complex regulates quorum sensing. 126 1095 1108 2006 hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

The activity of CAI 1 refers to the ability to activate the CAI 1 quorum sensing circuit . In bacteria the activity involves the initial interaction between CAI 1 and the sensor molecule CqsS with the extracellular signalling information being transduced through LuxO and HapR to control measurable activities or biomarkers of the bacteria e.g. virulence bio film formation host colonization bioluminescence . As used herein quorum sensing activity biological activity autoinducer activity CAI 1 activity and similar terms refer to the ability to activate the quorum sensing circuit which may be measurable as various quorum sensing regulated traits e.g. virulence host colonization biofilm formation etc. As described herein a reporter strain was used to provide quorum sensing dependent bioluminescence as a measure of the quorum sensing activity of the molecules under study.

Because autoinducers terminate rather than promote virulence in activation of quorum sensing in by providing autoinducer forms the basis of a novel strategy for therapeutic intervention in bacterial pathogenicity. The major autoinducer CAI 1 was identified characterized and synthesized and the autoinducer was used to control quorum sensing regulated traits. CAI 1 represses production of the virulence factor component toxin co regulated pilus TCP . CAI 1 inhibits bio film formation. Furthermore CAI 1 acts therapeutically to reduce the ability of to colonize its host.

TcpA is a subunit of the virulence factor TCP. TCP immunoblots showed that CAI 1 is capable of blocking virulence factor expression and mutants locked at high cell density are completely avirulent as described in Miller et al. 2002 and Zhu J. et al. Quorum sensing regulators control virulence gene expression in 99 3129 3134 2002 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. This is noteworthy given the prevalence of cholera in the developing world and the rise of antibiotic resistant strains of as described in Wang et al. 2004 . That the autoinducer itself and not an autoinducer antagonist is an inhibitor of pathogenicity factors is a peculiarity of the disease process. Most pathogenic bacteria mount a long lasting persistent infection and in cases in which quorum sensing is involved the accumulation of autoinducers at high cell density promotes virulence factor expression as described in Passador L. Cook J. M. Gambello M. J. Rust L. and Iglewski B. H. Expression of virulence genes requires cell to cell communication. Science 260 1127 1130 1993 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. by contrast elicits a self limiting disease. At high cell density the bacteria are flushed from the host back into the environment. Consistent with this autoinducer accumulation terminates virulence factor expression. This reciprocal relationship between autoinducer concentration and virulence in provides a unique opportunity to exploit quorum sensing to control pathogenicity. Moreover the simplicity and inherent stability of CAI 1 may prove to be principal virtues in the development of applications for bacterial control see . Thus interference with quorum sensing processes in general either pro or anti has tremendous promise in the clinical setting for control of bacterial pathogenicity.

In accord with these findings the invention provides the CAI 1 which is structurally identified as S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one and analogues of this compound. In various embodiments the compound or analogues are substantially purified to 75 89 purity more preferably to 90 99 purity or more preferably to greater than 99 purity. With respect to these compounds pharmaceutical compositions are provided containing CAI 1 or CAI 1 analogue as therapy for cholera.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be administered by any mode known in the art. Representative modes of administration are oral nasal topical including buccal and sublingual or parenteral administration. Oral administration is a preferred mode of administration. Fluid dosage forms can allow for rehydration along with therapy. Solid dosage forms for oral administration can include for example capsules tablets pills powders tinctures and granules. The solid dosage forms can be an admixture with food and chewable forms. In such solid dosage forms the active compound is admixed with at least one inert pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as sucrose lactose or starch. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms can also comprise buffering agents. The solid dosage forms can additionally be prepared with enteric coatings. A skilled artisan can determine which form of administration is best in a particular case for balancing the dose needed versus periodic delivery.

A therapeutically effective amount of the active ingredient will be determined dependent upon recognized variables such as age and weight of the subject the particular route of administration and the particular condition of the subject. The suitability of treatment schedules and the aforementioned modes of administration are determined by those of skill in the art using routine procedures. For example those of skill in the art will be able to take the information disclosed in this specification and optimize treatment regimes for human subjects in accordance with the specification.

The compositions and thus the methods of the invention can be used alone or in conjunction with other therapies including for example administration of other therapeutic agents including rehydrating solutions .

It will be appreciated that the treatment methods of the invention are useful in the fields of human medicine and animal treatment. Thus the subject or individual to be treated may be a mammal preferably human or other animals such as fish and marine animals. In the treatment of animals in an aquaculture environment the active therapeutic may be added to foodstuffs or media. and are representative of bacterial pathogens of fish and shrimp. However the invention is not limited by mention of these representative species.

The biological activity of CAI 1 is sensitive to side chain length as the thirteen carbon molecule has 8 fold greater activity than the twelve carbon molecule which likewise is 8 fold more active than the eleven carbon molecule . The configuration of the hydroxyl group is also important albeit to a lesser extent roughly 2 fold differences . The relatively small effect of the configuration of the C3 hydroxyl on activity is surprising given that there are only two functional groups hydroxyl and carbonyl on the molecules. The limits of and requirements for CAI 1 recognition by the CqsS receptor were made apparent through the synthesis of related molecules with a particular focus on functional groups and stereochemistry at the C3 and C4 positions as well as backbone length Examples 1 2 8 .

Analogues of S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one CAI 1 were synthesized and demonstrated control over quorum sensing regulated traits. The term analogue is meant to include a molecule that is structurally similar to the parent molecule CAI 1 but different in that chemical groups have been substituted added or removed so as to make the analogue structurally distinct from the parent compound.

The analogue may possess additional or lack certain of the quorum sensing activity of the parent molecule. Such analogues may be naturally occurring or synthetic. Representative of simple substitution analogues are substitution of O for OH or vice versa substitution of chiral alternatives or chiral mixture substitution with NHCl Cl Br SH phenyl methyl tent butyl or D . Representative analogues also include those obtained by lengthening or shortening the number of hydrocarbons in the alkyl chain or removing a functional group. The examples provided herein are representative and are not meant to be limiting.

When CqsA was introduced into and expressed in the bacteria released into the culture medium S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one thirteen carbons with trace amounts of 3 hydroxydodecan 4 one twelve carbons and 3 hydroxyundecan 4 one eleven carbons . . In contrast produces exclusively the 13 carbon S stereoisomer. These findings suggest that CqsA couples a standard 10 carbon fatty acyl unit with a three carbon moiety to produce CAI 1 and that high level production of CqsA in heterologous exhausts the supply of the 10 carbon acyl substrate enabling minor amounts of shorter fatty acyl chains e.g. C8 to be incorporated into the molecule.

The biochemical mechanism underlying production of CAI 1 by CqsA was not previously known. However database analysis shows that CqsA is similar to pyridoxal phosphate PLP binding aminotransferases of which 8 amino 7 oxononanoate synthetase AONS shares the most homology. Related PLP dependent aminotransferases typically catalyze condensations between amino acids and carboxylic thioesters but the repertoire of PLP dependent enzymes is diverse as described in Eliot A. C. and Kirsch J. F. Pyridoxal phosphate enzymes mechanistic structural and evolutionary considerations. 73 383 415 2004 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. None however is known to generate an hydroxyketone like CAI 1 or an diketone that could be a possible precursor to CAI 1. The finding that introduction of cqsA into is sufficient for autoinducer production suggested that either CAI 1 is made from commonly occurring metabolic intermediates and only one enzyme i.e. CqsA is required or alternatively that provides the additional enzyme s needed to synthesize the molecule. In the case of the former CqsA would be the first PLP dependent aminotransferase to perform a generic coupling of carbon units to produce an hydroxyketone. In vitro studies are able to define the biosynthetic mechanism of CAI 1 production.

The two largest families of autoinducer signals the homoserine lactones used by the Gram negative bacteria and the oligopeptides used by Gram positive bacteria contain numerous related molecules each possessing significant species specificity as described in Taga M. E. and Bassler B. L. Chemical communication among bacteria. 100 14549 14554 2003 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. By contrast AI 2 functions generically across species via spontaneous derivitization of a shared precursor DPD as described in Waters et al. 2005 and Xavier et al. 2003 . Finally there are particular autoinducer signals and their corresponding synthases that have unique structures and are produced by and active only in closely related organisms such as the quinolones Pseudomonads the butyrolactones Streptomycetes 3 hydroxypalmitic acid methyl ester the diffusible signal factors DSF Xanthomonadaceae and now the hydroxyketone CAI 1 Vibrios see for structures as described in Pesci E. C. et al. Quinolone signalling in the cell to cell communication system of . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 11229 11234 1999 Horinouchi S and Beppu T. A factor as a microbial hormone that controls cellular differentiation and secondary metabolism in . Mol. Microbiol. 12 859 864 1994 Flavier A. B. Clough S. J. Schell M. A. and Denny T. P. Identification of 3 hydroxypalmitic acid methyl ester as a novel autoregulator controlling virulence in . Mol. Microbiol. 26 251 259 1997 Wang et al. 2004 and Colnaghi Simionato et al. 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. Due to their limited distribution clues to their existence are not revealed by comparison of diverse genome sequences. Rather each of these molecules was individually discovered based on a particular phenotype in a particular bacterium. Based on this we propose the existence of additional potent quorum sensing signals of unique structure and restricted ranges of target organisms.

Accordingly another aspect of the invention provides that bacteria containing CqsA are capable of synthesizing a quorum sensing signal like the hydroxyketone CAI 1. As representative of such bacteria are sp. JS666 and

The molecule S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one was previously unknown in biology. However other hydroxyketones are known to play key roles in biological signalling systems. For example the male coffee white stem borer Chevrolat uses the hydroxyketone S 2 hydroxydecan 3 one as a sex pheromone as described in Flavier et al. 1997 . Interestingly females are attracted specifically to the S isomer of this compound. Similar hydroxyketones are produced and used as pheromones by other insects see . The biosynthetic steps responsible for production of these insect pheromones have not been defined and cannot therefore be compared to steps in CAI 1 synthesis. The similarities between the molecules however raise the possibility that their syntheses as well as their roles in communication arose from a distant common ancestor.

The molecule S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one is identified as the natural CAI 1 autoinducer in . It has now been determined that analogues of this molecule also have quorum sensing activity See . Among the analogues contemplated in the present invention are the set of molecules whose structure is identified as CHCHCH R C O CHCHCHCHCHCHCHCHCH where R NHCl S NHCl R NHCl Cl Br or SH. As representative the analogue 3 chloroamino tridecan 4 one when tested exhibited equivalent activity to CAI 1. Also among the analogues contemplated are the set of molecules CHCDCH R C O CHCHCHCHCHCHCHCHCH where R OH or NHCl. As representative the analogue 2 2 D 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one when tested exhibited equivalent activity to CAI 1. Also among the analogues contemplated are the set of linear hydrocarbons X carbons in length bearing a hydroxyl substituent at carbon 3 and a ketone substituent at carbon 4 where X 7 9 15 or 17. The analogues contemplated also include the set of linear hydrocarbons Y carbons in length bearing an S hydroxyl substituent at carbon 3 and a ketone substituent at carbon 4 where Y 11 12 or 13. This set includes the natural CAI 1 which of course exhibits 100 activity. Also among the analogues contemplated are the set of linear hydrocarbons Z carbons in length bearing an R hydroxyl substituent at carbon 3 and a ketone substituent at carbon 4 where Z 11 12 or 13. As representative the analogue R 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one when tested exhibited forty percent of the activity of CAI 1. Among the analogues contemplated are the set of molecules CHCHCH R CH R CHCHCHCHCHCHCHCHCH where R R O O OH OH O OH H O OH H O H or H OH. As representative the analogue tridecan 3 4 dione when tested exhibited 10 percent of the activity of CAI 1. Also among the analogues contemplated are the set of molecules RCH OH C O CHCHCHCHCHCHCHCHCH where R methyl tent butyl or phenyl.

There now follow particular examples provided for the purpose of illustrating the invention and not be construed as limiting.

CAI 1 Purification. Autoinducer was purified from cell free culture fluids of DH5 harboring inducible cqsA VCA0523 on pTrc99A or from KSK1052 El Tor C6706str luxS as specified. Expression of cqsA in was induced with IPTG. Following centrifugation and filtration cell free culture fluid was extracted with dichloromethane DCM evaporated and assayed for CAI 1 activity using the bioluminescence assay described below. Following crude silica gel purification concentrated extract in DCM was injected onto a 2 25 cm ethyl pyridine HPLC column and eluted using a gradient of increasing ethyl acetate in hexanes. Fractions were assayed for CAI 1 activity as described below.

CAI 1 Purification from cqsA VCA0523 was cloned into pTrc99A and transformed into strain DH5 . The recombinant strain was grown at room temperature with aeration in 2.4 L of M9 medium supplemented with glucose 4 g L leucine 0.5 g L and ampicillin 0.1 g L . cqsA expression was induced for 16 h with 0.5 mM IPTG. Following centrifugation at 10 000 g and passage through a 0.22 m filter the cell free culture fluid was mixed with 0.6 v dichloromethane DCM in a reparatory funnel. The organic phase was isolated evaporated and assayed for CAI 1 activity using the bioluminescent CAI 1 reporter strain MM920 El Tor C67O6str cqsA luxQ pBB1 luxCDABE from as described in Miller et al. 2002 . The extract was dissolved in DCM and further purified by passage through silica gel with 0.5 L of 7 3 DCM methanol followed by concentration via evaporation. 50 100 mg of the concentrate was dissolved in 1 mL DCM injected onto a 2 25 cm ethyl pyridine HPLC column and eluted using a gradient of increasing ethyl acetate in hexanes 0 80 at 20 mL min. Fractions were tested for CAI 1 activity active fractions were pooled.

CAI 1 Purification from . KSK1052 El Tor C6706str luxS was grown at 37 C. in 3 7 L of tryptone broth with extraction and purification as in above .

Chemical and Analytical Methods. H NMR spectra were recorded using a Varian Unity 400 MHz Varian Unity INOVA 500 MHz or a Bruker Avance II 500 MHz spectrometer. Chemical shifts were calibrated according to a CHClinternal standard.

Bioluminescence Assays. When assaying column fractions for autoinducer activity 5 of each fraction was evaporated and dissolved in a mixture of water acetonitrile 2 1 . This preparation was added at 2 volume to the CAI 1 reporter strain MM920 El Tor C67O6str cqsA luxQ pBB1 luxCDABE from according to previously described methods as described in Miller et al. 2002 . Synthetic CAI 1 preparations were dissolved in DMSO and supplied at 0.5 total volume to MM920 at specified concentrations.

Results. To purify and identify CAI 1 we introduced the cqsA gene encoding the CAI 1 synthase see into which is sufficient for the production and release of high level CAI 1 activity into culture fluids as described in Miller et al. 2002 and Henke et al. 2004 . Recombinant produces substantially more CAI 1 activity than does in minimal medium which simplified the initial purification and identification. CAI 1 activity was extracted from pcqsA cell free culture fluids and purified via normal phase HPLC. Activity was detected using a reporter strain engineered to express bioluminescence exclusively in response to exogenously provided CAI 1 as described in Miller et al. 2002 . CAI 1 activity appeared as one peak following HPLC separation. Fractions in this peak contained 10.000 fold higher CAI 1 activity than did control samples .

The structure of the dominant component 90 was assigned as the hydroxyketone shown in based on spectroscopic evidence. A DO exchangeable proton at 3.5 ppm and an IR absorbance at 3490 cmindicated the presence of a hydroxyl group. Using H double quantum NMR spectroscopy a correlation between the hydroxyl group and proton c together with correlations between protons bb and protons a and c respectively established a CHCHCH OH unit. Additionally the correlation of protons d e and g with the amorphous signal for f indicated a long unbranched alkyl chain of uncertain length. The carbonyl group connecting these two fragments was confirmed by C NMR spectroscopy 212 ppm and IR 1709 cm . GC MS analysis showed three components . The major component was assigned to the compound where f corresponds to six methylene units 12 H using both molecular ion and fragmentation information. From these data we concluded that the predominant molecule in the active fraction was CHCHCH OH CO CH CH 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one stereo undefined . GC MS analysis indicated that the active extract also contained minor amounts of molecules where the C10 acyl chain of the thirteen carbon major component is replaced by a C9 acyl or a C8 acyl unit hereafter abbreviated as C13 C12 and C11 .

Chemical Synthesis. All chemicals were purchased from commercial vendors and used without further purification. Unless otherwise noted all reactions were performed in flame dried glassware under an atmosphere of argon using dried reagents and solvents. Flash chromatography was performed using standard grade silica gel 60 230 400 mesh from SORBENT Technologies. Thin layer chromatography was carried out using Silica G TLC plates 200 m with UV254 SORBENT Technologies and visualization was performed by either staining potassium permanganante or anisaldehyde and or by absorbance of UV light.

Synthetic Details. Individual synthesis and biological testing was used to establish the exact structure and biological activity of the potential signaling molecules 5 7. Each of the six hydroxyketones was synthesized according to the reaction series shown in . First 2 hydroxybutyric acid 1 available commercially in both its pure R and pure S enantiomers was protected as the tert butyldiphenylsilyl ether 2 in high yield. The free acid was efficiently converted to the Weinreb amide 3 through CDI mediated coupling with N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride. The Weinreb amide was then subjected to reaction with an alkyl Grignard reagent freshly prepared nonyl octyl and heptylmagnesium bromide were used to synthesize compounds 4a 4 c in both the R and S versions. After deprotection of the TBDPS ether using tetrabutylammonium fluoride final purification of the analogues 5 7 both pure R and pure S was performed by HPLC 3 25 cm ethyl pyridine column 5 EtOAc in hexanes 30 mL min 254 nm elution at 8 min followed by a 2 25 cm Premier column 9 1 hexane MTBE 20 mL min 280 nm elution at 15 min . Each compound was thereafter available for biological testing in 99 purity.

The enantio purity was established by chiral chromatography Chiralpak AD H 25 0.46 cm 15 methanol CO 100 bar 3 mL min 280 nm . For example isomer 5S showed retention time 2.1 min while the isomer 5R eluted at 3.9 min see .

The appropriately protected 2 hydroxybutyric acid derivative 2 was prepared according to the analoguous reported silyl protection of 3 hydroxybutyric acid as described in Hall D. R. et al. Identification of components of male produced pheromone of coffee white stemborer 32 195 219 2006 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. A mixture of imidazole 6.106 g 89.7 mmol and TBDPSCl 7 mL 27.2 mmol in DMF 6 mL at 0 C. was added to a stirring solution of 2 hydroxybutyric acid 1 0.885 g 8.5 mmol in DMF 3.5 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight after which it was poured onto cold saturated sodium chloride 100 mL and extracted with 5 50 mL 1 3 diethyl ether petroleum ether. The crude product was washed with water 50 mL dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude oil was then diluted with 3 2 MeOH THF 75 mL and placed at 0 C. Potassium carbonate 2.64 g 19.1 mmol dissolved in water 17.5 mL was added dropwise to solution which was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was then diluted with brine 35 mL returned to 0 C. and acidified to approximately pH 2 with concentrated sulfuric acid. The acid solution was extracted four times with 1 3 ether petroleum ether 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed four times with 2 NaOH 100 mL . The basic layers were combined placed at 0 C. and reacidified to approximately pH 2 with concentrated sulfuric acid. This aqueous layer was extracted five times with DCM 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to yield 2 as an oily white crystalline solid 2.72 g 7.9 mmol 93 . 5 deg cmgdm 31.1 c 0.014 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 30.0 c 0.144 g cmin CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 0.97 t J 7.44 Hz 3H 1.17 s 9H 1.86 1.64 m 2H 4.32 t J 5.13 Hz 1H 7.49 7.38 m 6H 7.71 td J 8.02 1.71 Hz 4H 11.02 br s 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 177.3 135.8 135.7 132.9 132.5 130.0 127.8 127.7 73.3 27.8 26.9 19.3 8.3 IR CHCl 3389 2965 2934 2860 1773 1723 1428 cm.

Weinreb amide 3 was derived from the free acid 2 following a synthetic procedure set out for a similar substrate as described in Sakai T. Nakagawa Y. Takahashi J. Iwabuchi K. and Ishii K. Isolation and identification of the male sex pheromone of the grape borer Bates Coleoptera Cerambycidae . 263 264 1984 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. To a solution of compound 2 3.13 g 9.14 mmol in DCM 19 mL at 0 C. was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 2.964 g 18.3 mmol . After the solution stirred at room temperature overnight imidazole 1.25 g 18.3 mmol DMAP 0.033 g 0.274 mmol and N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 1.78 g 18.3 mmol were added at 0 C. The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 100 mL washed twice with 2 N HCl 100 mL and once with brine 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography 20 EtOAc in hexanes R 50 EtOAc in hexanes 0.77 to yield 3 as a white crystalline solid 2.75 g 7.13 mmol 78 . S deg cmgdm 4.9 c 0.068 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 4.8 c 0.044 g cmin CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 0.92 t J 7.47 Hz 3H 1.10 s 9H 1.82 1.69 m 2H 3.00 s 3H 3.11 s 3H 4.44 t J 5.86 Hz 1H 7.46 7.33 m 6H 7.71 td J 8.03 1.62 Hz 4H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 136.1 135.9 133.9 133.5 129.6 129.5 127.5 127.4 60.6 27.8 26.9 19.4 9.4 IR CHCl 2972 1670 1428 cm EIMS m z M calcd for CHNOSi 385. found 370 M Me 328 M Bu .

Compounds 4a c were obtained by reaction of the appropriate Grignard reagent with Weinreb amide 3 as shown for a similar substrate in the literature as described in Leal W. S. Shi X. Nakamuta K. Ono M. and Meinwald J. Structure stereochemistry and thermal isomerization of the male sex pheromone of the longhorn beetle 92 1038 1042 1995 hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

To a solution of Weinreb amide 3 1.66 g 4.5 mmol in THF 40 mL at 0 C. was added freshly prepared nonylmagnesium bromide 1.84 M in diethyl ether 10 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight after which it was diluted with diethyl ether 50 mL cooled to 0 C. and quenched with water. The organic layer was recovered and washed twice with 10 KHSO 50 mL and once with brine 50 mL . The organic layer was then dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography 2.5 EtOAc in hexanes R 20 EtOAc in hexanes 0.74 to yield 4a as a yellowed oil 1.76 g 3.9 mmol 87 . S deg cmgdm 10.0 c 0.010 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 9.5 c 0.014 g cmin CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 0.83 t J 7.47 Hz 3H 0.90 t J 6.93 Hz 3H 1.13 s 9H 1.35 1.16 m 12H 1.41 ddd J 14.54 6.91 6.09 Hz 2H 1.73 1.51 m 2H 2.53 2.31 m 2H 4.13 dd J 6.22 5.36 Hz 1H 7.48 7.34 m 6H 7.64 dt J 8.24 8.15 1.51 Hz 4H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 212.9 135.83 135.79 133.6 133.2 129.83 129.80 127.7 127.6 80.0 38.0 31.9 29.4 29.3 29.2 27.8 27.0 22.9 22.7 19.4 14.1 8.8 IR CHCl 2975 2930 2857 1711 1475 1112 cm.

To a solution of Weinreb amide 3 0.889 g 2.4 mmol in THF 13.5 mL at 0 C. was added freshly prepared octylmagnesium bromide 1.84 M in diethyl ether 4 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight after which it was diluted with diethyl ether 50 mL cooled to 0 C. and quenched with water. The organic layer was recovered and washed twice with 10 KHSO 50 mL and once with brine 50 mL . The organic layer was then dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography 2.5 EtOAc in hexanes R 20 EtOAc in hexanes 0.75 to yield 4b as a yellowed oil 0.829 g 1.9 mmol 79 . S deg cmgdm 19.7 c 0.033 g cmin CHCl R deg cmg dm 20.0 c 0.027 g cmin CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 0.82 t J 7.46 Hz 3H 0.89 t J 7.04 Hz 3H 1.12 s 9H 1.34 1.15 m 10H 1.46 1.34 m 2H 1.72 1.50 m 2H 2.41 m 2H 4.12 t J 5.78 Hz 1H 7.37 td J 13.00 6.57 Hz 4H 7.48 7.40 m 2H 7.66 7.61 m 4H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 212.9 135.83 135.79 133.7 133.2 129.83 129.81 127.7 127.6 80.0 38.0 31.8 29.4 29.2 29.1 27.8 27.0 22.9 22.6 19.3 14.1 8.8 IR CHCl 2963 2931 2858 1710 1472 1112 cm.

To a solution of Weinreb amide 3 0.867 g 2.3 mmol in THF 13 mL at 0 C. was added freshly prepared heptylmagnesium bromide 1.82 M in diethyl ether 4 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight after which it was diluted with diethyl ether 50 mL cooled to 0 C. and quenched with water. The organic layer was recovered and washed twice with 10 KHSO 50 mL and once with brine 50 mL . The organic layer was then dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography 2.5 EtOAc in hexanes R 20 EtOAc in hexanes 0.78 to yield 4c as a yellowed oil 0.782 g 1.9 mmol 82 . S deg cmgdm 24.0 c 0.023 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 17.5 c 0.015 g cmin CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 0.81 t J 7.47 Hz 3H 0.88 t J 7.08 Hz 3H 1.12 s 9H 1.33 1.14 m 8H 1.47 1.33 m 2H 1.62 qt J 13.79 7.45 7.37 Hz 2H 2.40 m 2H 4.12 dd J 6.23 5.36 Hz 1H 7.39 7.34 m 4H 7.45 7.40 m 2H 7.63 ddd J 10.30 8.05 1.42 Hz 4H C NMR CDCl 125 MHz p.p.m. 212.9 135.9 135.8 133.7 133.1 129.9 129.8 127.7 127.6 80.0 38.0 31.7 29.2 29.1 27.8 27.0 22.9 22.6 19.4 14.1 8.8 IR CHCl 2832 2859 1711 1112 775 735 cm.

To a solution of protected hydroxyketone 4a 0.765 g 1.7 mmol in THF 17 mL at 0 C. was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1 M in THF 5 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC 20 EtOAc in hexanes . Upon full conversion of starting material product R 0.47 the reaction mixture was returned to 0 C. and quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate. The solution was then diluted with diethyl ether 50 mL and washed with water 10 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by HPLC 3 25 ethyl pyridine column 5 EtOAc in hexanes 30 mL min 254 nm elution at 8 min followed by 2 25 cm Premier column 9 1 hexane MTBE 20 mL min 280 nm elution at 15 min. 5 deg cmgdm 39.4 c 0.014 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 35.1 c 0.026 g cmin CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 4.13 td J 6.73 4.47 Hz 1H 3.51 d J 4.93 Hz 1H 2.57 2.30 m 2H 1.88 dqd J 14.91 7.47 4.04 Hz 1H 1.58 m 3H 1.34 1.20 m 12H 0.91 t J 7.40 7.40 Hz 3H 0.85 t J 6.86 Hz 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 212.4 77.1 37.8 31.8 29.32 29.29 29.18 26.7 23.5 22.6 14.0 8.8 IR CHCl 3481 2929 2855 1709 1467 1075 983 cm EIMS m z M calcd for CHO 214. found 214 155 M COCH . HRMS m z M calcd for CHO 214.19325. found 214.19359.

To a solution of protected hydroxyketone 4b 0.788 g 1.8 mmol in THF 18 mL at 0 C. was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1 M in THF 5 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC 20 EtOAc in hexanes . Upon full conversion of starting material product R 0.45 the reaction mixture was placed at 0 C. and quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate. The solution was then diluted with diethyl ether 50 mL and washed with water 10 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by HPLC following the conditions described for 5 above. S deg cmgdm 58.7 c 0.022 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 60.8 c 0.081 g cmin CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 4.12 td J 6.28 4.36 Hz 1H 3.50 d J 4.76 Hz 1H 2.49 2.35 m 2H 1.87 dqd J 14.92 7.46 4.03 Hz 1H 1.57 m 3H 1.33 1.18 m 10H 0.91 t J 7.40 Hz 3H 0.85 t J 7.01 Hz 3H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 212.3 76.6 37.7 31.6 29.14 29.07 28.9 26.6 23.4 22.5 13.9 8.7 IR CHCl 3486 2930 2856 1709 1477 1074 983 cm EIMS m z M calcd for CHO 200. found 200 141 M COCH .

To a solution of protected hydroxyketone 4c 0.753 g 1.8 mmol in THF 18 mL at 0 C. was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1 M in THF 5 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC 20 EtOAc in hexanes . Upon full conversion of starting material product R 0.45 the reaction mixture was placed at 0 C. and quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate. The solution was then diluted with diethyl ether 50 mL and washed with water 10 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered concentrated and purified by HPLC 3 25 ethyl pyridine column 5 EtOAc in hexanes 30 mL min 254 nm elution at 8 min followed by 2 25 cm Premier column 9 1 hexane MTBE 20 mL min 280 nm elution at 15 min. 5 deg cmgdm 52.8 c 0.048 g cmin CHCl R deg cmgdm 51.5 c 0.012 g cmin CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 4.14 td J 6.74 4.44 Hz 1H 3.49 d J 4.88 Hz 1H 2.54 2.36 m 2H 1.89 dqd J 14.93 7.47 4.03 Hz 1H 1.63 m 2H 1.61 m 1H 1.33 1.22 m 8H 0.93 t J 7.40 Hz 3H 0.87 t J 7.00 Hz 3H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl p.p.m. 212.4 77.1 37.9 31.6 29.2 29.0 26.7 23.6 22.6 14.0 8.8 IR CHCl 3481 2929 2858 1709 1464 1405 1075 982 cm EIMS m z M calcd for CHO 186. found 186 127 M COCH .

Results. To establish the structure of CAI 1 we synthesized and purified 99 each of the six candidates from the above analysis i.e. R and S CHCHCH OH CO CH CHwhere n 6 7 and 8 see structures 5 7 in . The enantio purity of each molecule was established by chiral chromatography. We verified that the components in the extract are the C13 C12 and C11 analogues by comparison of GC MS data with synthetic standards . Furthermore using chiral chromatographic methods developed with our synthetic standards we confirmed that the dominant molecule made by is the S stereoisomer of 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one . Activity assays of synthetic CAI 1 and analogues support the identification of S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one as CAI 1 . All six of the synthetic CAI 1 analogues activated the quorum sensing circuit to different degrees following the pattern C13 5 C13 R C12 S C12 R C11 S C11 R . This ranking shows that the molecules with longer acyl chains are more active than those with shorter acyl chains and that generally a compound with S stereochemistry at the C3 position has superior activity to the counterpart with R stereochemistry. Finally by capitalizing on the purification and analysis strategies we developed with our synthetic molecules and the extracts we were able to obtain sufficient activity from for analysis. GC MS and chiral chromatography showed that the only species present in culture fluids was the C13 version of the S isomer establishing that S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one as the bone fide CAI 1 molecule .

Western Blot Analysis. strains were grown in AKI medium and samples prepared as described previously in Miller et al. 2002 . Anti TcpA antibody and Anti Rabbit IgG Horseradish Peroxidase Conjugate Promega were used with the SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate Pierce system.

Results. A major goal of quorum sensing research is to develop strategies to artificially manipulate quorum sensing controlled processes in bacteria. Toward this end was treated with synthetic CAI 1 and examination was made of the consequences on production of TcpA. TcpA a subunit of the toxin co regulated pilus TCP is a primary host colonization factor as described in Taylor R. K. Miller V. L. Furlong D. B. and Mekalanos J. J. Use of phoA gene fusions to identify a pilus colonization factor coordinately regulated with cholera toxin. 84 2833 2837 1987 hereby incorporated by reference into this application. Consistent with earlier results showing that virulence factors are expressed at low cell density and repressed by autoinducers at high cell density high level production of TCP occurred in mutants locked in low cell density mode hapR whereas cells locked in high cell density mode luxO produced no TcpA and see as described in Miller et al. 2002 and Zhu et al. 2002 . The addition of synthetic CAI 1 at concentrations up to 10 M substantially repressed TcpA production in a luxQ cqsA strain that cannot respond to AI 2 or produce CAI 1 top row . Although less dramatic TcpA levels also decreased when CAI 1 was provided to the luxQ cqsA strain middle row . Together these results show that exogenously supplied synthetic CAI 1 is capable of controlling gene expression in both in the absence and presence of endogenously produced CAI 1. Importantly synthetic CAI 1 had no effect on TcpA production in a luxQ cqsS strain which cannot respond to either CAI 1 or AI 2 bottom row . This final result demonstrates that information flow through the quorum sensing circuit is absolutely required for CAI 1 repression of TCP production and we infer repression of other virulence factors.

CAI 1 stock in DMSO was diluted 1 128 into 10 mM potassium phosphate buffer at pH 7 to a final autoinducer concentration of 400 M. Samples were incubated for specified lengths of time chilled briefly on ice and frozen in dry ice ethanol. Samples were thawed diluted 1 3 in the same phosphate buffer and read with the bioluminescence assay. Diluted sample was added at 2.5 of reporter culture volume for final concentrations of 3.3 M CAI 1 and 250 M potassium phosphate. Results are shown in .

CAI 1 stock in DMSO was diluted 1 128 into 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer at specified pH values to a final autoinducer concentration of 400 M. Following incubation at room temperature for specified times samples were neutralized with an equal volume of 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer e.g. pH 10 buffer was added to pH 4 buffered autoinducer . Neutralized samples now with 200 M CAI 1 were chilled briefly on ice and frozen in dry ice ethanol. Autoinducer samples were thawed diluted 1 3 in 100 mM pH 7 potassium phosphate buffer and read with the bioluminescence assay. Diluted sample was added at 5 of reporter culture volume for final concentrations of 3.3 M CAI 1 and 5 mM potassium phosphate. Results are shown in .

Early stationary phase KX1200 MG1655 luxS and BH1575 El Tor C6706str luxS cqsA were diluted to OD 0.1 in LB medium. Along with sterile LB medium they were shaken overnight at 37 C. with and without 10 M CAI 1 supplementation. Culture and LB samples were centrifuged at 10 000 g filtered with 0.22 m filters and read at 10 final culture volume using the CAI 1 reporter bioassay. Results are shown in .

Methods. Wild type El Tor C6706 were grown to saturation 5 10CFU ml in LB medium at 30 C. with shaking Cell density was adjusted to 5 10CFU ml with LB medium. Diluted culture was treated with or without 20 M CAI 1 S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one in DMSO and 20 M DPD S 4 5 dihydroxypentane 2 3 dione in NaPObuffer for 30 minutes at 30 C. CD1 infant mice 5 and 6 day old were infected orally with 2.5 10CFU in 50 l of treated with or without autoinducers. Two and five hours post infection animals that were infected with autoinducer treated received orally 50 A of solution containing 3 mM CAI 1 and 0.5 mM DPD. Animals that were infected with non autoinducer treated received an identical solution except autoinducers were omitted. Seven hours post infection animals were euthanized and the intestinal portions between the stomach and the caecum were surgically removed and mechanically homogenized. from the intestinal homogenate were counted by plating on selective medium.

Results. Synthetic autoinducers repress expression of colonization factor TCP in vitro Example 3 . As a further indication of the therapeutic effect of autoinducer an experiment was conducted to determine if synthetic autoinducers would reduce colonization in a host. Using a well established infant mouse colonization assay the data collected showed that autoinducers decrease the total viable count of wild type in the intestine by an average of 20 fold. The results are shown in . This result indicated that synthetic autoinducers reduce the ability of to colonize the host and shows utility for the use as an anti cholera treatment.

CAI 1 analogues were dissolved in DMSO and supplied at 0.5 total volume to the CAI 1 reporter strain MM920 El Tor C6706str cqsA luxQpBB1 luxCDABE from V. harveyi . Bioluminescence measurements at varying concentrations of analogue generally from 10 M to 10 M were measured using a Wallac EnVision 2103 Multilabel Reader Perkin Elmer Waltham Mass. .

CAI 1 analogues and their activity are shown in . As a measurable indication of activity a reporter strain provided for measurements of bioluminescence as a percentage of the bioluminescence activity of the CAI 1 autoinducer. The reference compound S 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one is the natural autoinducer CAI 1. Compound 22 3 aminotridecan 4 one hydrochloride exhibits equivalent activity to CAI 1. Compound 7 R 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one exhibits forty percent of the activity of CAI 1. Compounds 5 and 6 S 3 hydroxydodecan 4 one and R 3 hydroxydodecan 4 one exhibit twenty percent of the activity of CAI 1. Compound 10 tridecane 3 4 dione exhibits ten percent of the activity of CAI 1. Compounds 3 4 12 and 13 all exhibit less than five percent of the activity of CAI 1.

The examples and representative species described herein are for illustrative purposes and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. From the foregoing description it will be apparent that variations and modifications may be made to the invention described herein to adopt it to various usages and conditions. Such embodiments are also within the scope of the following claims.

