---

title: Curved tooth coupling for a miniature gas turbine engine
abstract: A rotor assembly for a miniature gas turbine propulsion system comprises a centrifugal compressor wheel, a turbine wheel, a shaft and a tie bolt. The centrifugal compressor wheel includes a first curved tooth coupling, and the turbine wheel includes a second curved tooth coupling interconnected with the first curved tooth coupling. The shaft extends from the centrifugal compressor wheel, and the tie bolt extends between the shaft and the turbine wheel to bring the first curved tooth coupling into compression with the second curved tooth coupling. As such, the compressor wheel and the turbine wheel are assembled and remain, over the operational envelope of the propulsion system, in a reliably robust aligned configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08215919&OS=08215919&RS=08215919
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08215919
owner_city: Rockford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080222
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. F08635 03 C 0002 awarded by The United States Air Force.

The present invention relates to miniature gas turbine engines and in particular to shaft couplings for rotor assemblies comprising turbine wheels and compressors. Miniature gas turbine engines operate in much the same ways a conventional gas turbine engines in that fuel is combusted in a source of compressed air to generate high energy gases for producing thrust and rotating turbines. As with conventional gas turbine engines the turbines are used to turn a compressor to compress air for the combustion process turn fan blades or eject gases at high velocity to produce thrust or turn a generator for operating electrical systems. However miniature gas turbine engines are much smaller such that they are readily applicable as propulsion systems for small vehicles. For example miniature gas turbine engines producing approximately 30 lbf 133.5 N of thrust or more are often used as propulsion systems for aircraft such as reconnaissance drones or projectile weapons such as cruise missiles and air launched and ground launched weapon systems. Miniature gas turbine engines extend the range of these aircraft and weapons beyond what is traditionally available from conventional rocket engines. Due to the usually exigent and expendable circumstances in which these aircraft and weapons systems are used it is desirable to have miniature gas turbine propulsion systems that are at the same time reliable and cost effective.

The rotor assembly i.e. the shaft coupling between the turbine and the compressor in the miniature gas turbine engine affects both reliability and manufacturing cost. The compressor and turbine together comprise the main rotating unit within the miniature gas turbine engine that rotates at very high speeds while being subject to wide ranging temperatures. Due to thermal expansion and the high rotational speed any misalignment or uncoupling of these components has the potential to produce instability during operation of the engine. The compressor typically comprises a wheel having a bore that is fitted onto a shaft integrated with the turbine. The compressor and shaft are conventionally coupled together through a simple radial interference fit. The interference fit requires that shafts and compressor bores be precision machined such that the components can be matched to form an interference fit having the desired torque transmitting capabilities. Thus radial interference fits for shaft couplings are not conducive to easy cost effective manufacturing on a large scale which makes miniature gas turbines less attractive for expendable applications. Furthermore during operation of the miniature gas turbine thermal growth and centrifugal expansion of the compressor wheel has the potential to cause separation from the turbine shaft thus causing balance instabilities and making the shaft coupling less reliable than desired. In worse case scenarios the compressor wheel may burst at the interference fit due to heating of the shaft and turbine during operation of the engine. There is therefore a need for a more reliable and inexpensive coupling mechanism for use in miniature gas turbine engines.

The present invention is directed toward a rotor assembly for a miniature gas turbine propulsion system. The rotor assembly comprises a centrifugal compressor wheel a turbine wheel a shaft and a tie bolt. The centrifugal compressor wheel includes a first curved tooth coupling and the turbine wheel includes a second curved tooth coupling interconnected with the first curved tooth coupling. The shaft extends from the centrifugal compressor wheel and the tie bolt extends between the shaft and the turbine wheel to bring the first curved tooth coupling into compression with the second curved tooth coupling. As such the compressor wheel and the turbine wheel are assembled in a robust aligned configuration.

Gas turbine engine is configured for use in small scale systems such as vehicle and in one embodiment is approximately twelve to approximately thirteen inches 30.5 33.0 cm in length. Vehicle is representative of various reusable and single use applications in which miniature gas turbine engine may be used. For example in one embodiment of the invention vehicle comprises a reconnaissance drone aircraft with aerodynamic surface comprising a wing and aerodynamic surface comprising a vertical stabilizer. In another embodiment vehicle comprises an air launched or ground launched cruise missile with aerodynamic surfaces and comprising stabilizers. Vehicle may also be used in other civilian or military applications such as weapon systems or weapon decoys. Thus vehicle is often called upon to perform critical missions and flight objectives that require reliable performance of engine . Furthermore it is preferable that engine be inexpensive to reduce costs associated with missions in which vehicle is expendable. Engine includes a main rotor shaft toothed coupling which increases the reliability of engine such that vehicle is well suited for use in exigent circumstances where reliability is critical. The toothed shaft coupling also enhances the manufacturability of engine such that costs associated with expendable embodiments of vehicle are reduced.

Shaft includes a cold section where compression of inlet air occurs within engine and a hot section where combustion of fuel occurs within engine . Inlet housing surrounds the cold portion of shaft where compressor wheel is mounted while diffuser assembly surrounds the hot portion of shaft where turbine wheel is mounted. Shaft support comprises an annular structure into which shaft is inserted. Shaft support is maintained stationary through connection with struts which are anchored by housing . A plurality of struts extend radially between shaft support and housing . Forward bearing and aft bearing are disposed within shaft support to support shaft at axially displaced locations. End cap is placed around shaft support to seal bearings and within shaft support . As such shaft is configured to rotate about axis A within support and inlet housing . Diffuser assembly is connected with inlet housing using for example threaded fasteners at flanged coupling and combustor housing extends axially downstream from diffuser assembly to surround combustion system . Combustion system includes combustor and fuel manifold and diffuser assembly includes divider inner flow diverter and outer flow diverter . Combustor comprises an annular hollow body in which the combustion process of engine is carried out. Combustor housing is maintained stationary within engine through connection with diffuser assembly and exhaust nozzle . Combustor rests on exhaust nozzle and is connected with flow diverter at its forward end.

Inlet air Aenters engine such as from intake duct at inlet housing . End cap diverts inlet air Aaround shaft support and shaft . Struts also function as inlet guide vanes to direct inlet air Ainto compressor wheel . Compressor wheel includes a plurality of compressor blades which are disposed on a radially outward exposed face of compressor wheel to face housing and diffuser assembly . Compressor blades comprise aerodynamically contoured blades that face the upstream direction such that they take in inlet air A. The outward exposed face of compressor wheel slopes outward toward housing so as to comprise a centrifugal or radial flow compressor. The cross sectional area of compressor blades decreases between intake housing and compressor wheel such that intake air Ais compressed as it leaves housing and enters diffuser assembly .

Diffuser assembly comprises an annular body for connecting the cold section of engine with the hot section of engine . Diffuser assembly guides gases into and out of combustor . Compressed air Aenters diffuser assembly at outer diverter which extends from the outer surface of divider to straighten compressed air Aentering combustor . Combustion gases Aleave combustor and enter diffuser assembly at inner diverter which extends from the inner surface of divider to straighten combustion gases Aentering turbine wheel . Combustor comprises a U shaped annular body that transforms the downstream flow of compressed air Ato an upstream flow of combustion gases Athrough the combustion process. The radially outer wall portion of combustor includes an array of small holes or apertures not shown that permit compressed air Ato enter the interior of combustor . Fuel manifold injects a supply of fuel into the interior of combustor . The fuel is ignited with an ignition system not shown which may comprise any suitable ignition system as is know in the art to initiate and sustain a combustion process with compressed air A. The combustion process yields high energy combustion gases A which are directed to turbine wheel by divider .

Combustion gases Aimpinge upon turbine blades of turbine wheel whereupon turbine blades extract some of the energy from combustion gases Ato turn turbine wheel and compressor wheel to produce compressed air and sustain the combustion process. Turbine wheel comprises a radially outward exposed face from which turbine blades extend. Turbine blades comprise aerodynamically contoured blades that face the downstream direction such that they expel exhaust gases Ain the downstream direction. The outward exposed face of turbine wheel slopes inward toward exhaust nozzle in the direction of flow so as to comprise a vortical or radial flow turbine. The cross sectional area of turbine blades increase such that exhaust gas Ais permitted to expand as it leaves turbine blades and enters exhaust nozzle . Compressor wheel through shaft and turbine wheel rotates to continuously compress inlet air Awithin compressor blades to sustain the combustion process. Exhaust gas Aalso produces thrust to drive engine in the forward direction as it leaves exhaust nozzle .

During operation of engine rotor assembly shaft compressor wheel and turbine wheel constitutes the power generating system of engine . In one embodiment shaft compressor wheel and turbine wheel rotate within engine at speeds from approximately 90 000 to approximately 150 000 RPM revolutions per minute . Additionally shaft spans the cold and hot section of engine such that it is exposed to a wide range of temperatures. For example in one embodiment the cold section reaches temperatures of approximately 900 F. 482.2 C. while the hot section reaches temperatures of approximately 1800 F. 982.2 C . Furthermore shaft compressor wheel and turbine wheel are directly subject to the forces of the thrust produced by engine . In various embodiments engine produces approximately 30 lbf 133.5 N of thrust or more. As such shaft compressor wheel and turbine wheel are subject to the most rigorous operating environment within engine while also being the most critical to proper operation of engine . In particular any unbalance in rotor assembly due to for example thermal growth or centrifugal expansion may cause engine to lose efficiency by for example losing compression or thrust production. Any such reduction in performance parameters may lead to failure of engine to meet mission requirements. For example loss of fuel efficiency may prevent a reconnaissance vehicle from reaching a specified objective while loss of thrust output may cause a missile to miss an intended target. Furthermore severe unbalance may even cause failure of engine .

The present invention incorporates toothed coupling into engine between compressor wheel and turbine wheel to provide improved rotation and assembly of compressor wheel turbine wheel and shaft as compared to typical radial interference fit coupling configurations. Additionally the present invention incorporates a tensioning tie bolt not shown into shaft to keep turbine wheel in contact with compressor wheel . The tensioning tie bolt and toothed coupling precisely engage the compressor wheel and turbine wheel radially while maintaining axial retention between the two members due to engagement of the curved sidewalls of the teeth. In other embodiments of the invention other intermeshing toothed couplings may be used. For example splines face splines face gears face couplings or snap couplings as are known in the art may be used. In any embodiment such toothed couplings transmit rotational torque between turbine wheel and compressor wheel and prevent relative motion between turbine wheel and compressor wheel .

In other embodiments as are discussed in greater detail with respect to toothed coupling comprises a curved tooth coupling which as used in this application generally refers to any toothed coupling wherein mating teeth include complimentary curved sidewalls. For example a curved tooth coupling typically comprises one set of barrel shaped teeth having longitudinally convex sidewalls and another set of hourglass shaped teeth having complimentary longitudinally concave sidewalls. Examples of such longitudinally curved tooth couplings are so called Curvic couplings a registered trademark of The Gleason Works Rochester N.Y. Such Curvic couplings and processes for making the same are described in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 2 384 582 by Wildhaber and U.S. Pat. No. 3 640 030 by Clarke et al. which are assigned to The Gleason Works Rochester N.Y. and are hereby incorporated by this reference. With such oppositely curved and intermeshed sidewalls both radial and axial displacement between members of the curved tooth coupling compressor wheel and turbine wheel is prevented.

In the embodiment of shaft A includes tie bolt that extends through compressor wheel A and turbine wheel A to retain compressor wheel A between turbine wheel A and shaft A. Specifically compressor wheel A is mounted to the aft end of support shaft . Tie bolt extends from the aft end of support shaft and through central bore of compressor wheel A and through central bore of turbine wheel A. Turbine wheel A surrounds tie bolt and mates with compressor wheel A utilizing curved tooth coupling A. Tensioning nut affixes to the aft end of tie bolt to engage turbine wheel A into contact with compressor wheel A through curved tooth coupling A by putting tie bolt in tension. As such turbine wheel A compressor wheel A and shaft A rotate in unison during operation of engine . During operation of engine compressor blades receive inlet air from engine for example from intake duct . Reaction surface of compressor wheel A is inclined radially outwardly as it extends from the forward end to the aft end of compressor wheel A and in conjunction with compressor blades compresses air within engine . Reaction surface of turbine wheel A receives combustion gases which are produced utilizing the compressed air from engine and declines radially inward as it extends from the forward end to the aft end of turbine wheel A and in conjunction with turbine blades pushes air out from within engine and rotate shaft A.

Support shaft comprises a cylindrical body that rides within forward bearing and aft bearing to support rotor assembly within engine . Forward bore receives a threaded fastener to retain an end cap or some other component of engine . Forward shoulder and aft shoulder retain and bias rotor assembly against forward bearing and aft bearing respectively. Aft bore is disposed at the aft end of support shaft and includes threads for receiving tie bolt . In other embodiments however tie bolt may be connected to support shaft by other means such as welding. Hub comprises a cylindrical body disposed at the aft end of support shaft to mate with compressor wheel A.

Counterbore and central bore of compressor wheel A extend through the central axis of compressor wheel A and reaction surface is disposed at the radial outer diameter of compressor wheel A. Counterbore is fit over hub such that the aft end of hub abuts lobe of compressor wheel A. In one embodiment counterbore and hub form an interference fit. In other embodiments however hub is welded to or threaded into counterbore . Central bore is formed by lobe which comprises an annular counterweight to reaction surface and blades . Coupling flange is disposed on the aft side of compressor wheel A to engage turbine wheel A. Coupling flange comprises an aftward projection upon which teeth of curved tooth coupling A are positioned to mesh with teeth on turbine wheel A. Profiled radii provide stress relief to flange such as to prevent cracks from loading by turbine wheel A. Tie bolt extends from aft bore in support shaft and through central bore to connect turbine wheel A with compressor wheel A through curved tooth coupling A.

In the embodiment shown first end of tie bolt includes threads and is threaded into mating threads within aft bore to provide a rigid fixed connection with support shaft . Shoulder ensures first end is properly seated within aft bore such as for example preventing tie bolt from extending too far into aft bore . Second end extends through central bore of turbine wheel A to receive tensioning nut . Central bore extends from the forward end of turbine wheel A through to the aft end of turbine wheel A. Tie bolt has an outer diameter smaller than the diameter of central bore such that tie bolt and turbine wheel A are easily assembled. Also the diameters of tie bolt and central bore are selected to permit thermal growth of tie bolt and turbine wheel A. Tie bolt however also includes ring which assists in centering tie bolt within central bore and aligning tie bolt with aft bore . Coupling flange is disposed on the forward side of turbine wheel A to engage coupling flange of compressor wheel A. Coupling flange comprises a forward projection upon which teeth of curved tooth coupling A are positioned to mesh with teeth on coupling flange . Profiled radii provide stress relief to flange such as to prevent cracks from loading by compressor wheel A. Tensioning nut is fitted onto second end of tie bolt to join coupling flange with coupling flange . In the embodiment shown second end includes threads for receiving mating threads on tensioning nut . Tensioning nut is tightened onto tie bolt to compress coupling flange with coupling flange . In another embodiment tensioning nut is rigidly fixed to tie bolt such as by welding. In another embodiment tie bolt includes a bolt head at second end that can be rotated to engage first end with aft bore . In any embodiment however tie bolt is put in tension to retain axial engagement of coupling flange and coupling flange over the build and operating envelope of engine .

In the embodiment shown first coupling flange and second coupling flange include intermeshing teeth that engage to form a curvic coupling. In the present invention one set of teeth is disposed circumferentially about the aft facing end of coupling flange with the other set of teeth disposed circumferentially about the forward facing end of coupling flange . In alternative embodiments the convexly curved teeth are disposed on coupling flange and the concavely shaped teeth are disposed on coupling flange or the convexly shaped teeth are disposed on coupling flange and the concavely shaped teeth are disposed on coupling flange . Tie bolt extends between turbine wheel A and compressor wheel A to maintain meshing of curved tooth coupling A thus permitting rotational torque to be transmitted from turbine A to compressor A. In the embodiment of tie bolt extends through turbine wheel A and tensioning nut compresses coupling flange onto coupling flange to transmit axial and torsion loads from turbine wheel A to compressor wheel A and shaft A. However in other embodiments compressor wheel A turbine wheel A and shaft A can be joined in other configuration to maintain the aligned no motion required assembly of curved tooth coupling A.

In the embodiment of shaft B includes tie bolt that extends through compressor wheel B to retain compressor wheel B between turbine wheel B and shaft B. Specifically compressor wheel B is mounted to the aft end of support shaft on hub . Turbine wheel B is connected to the aft of tie bolt and mates with compressor wheel B at coupling flanges and . Tie bolt extends from the forward end of turbine wheel B through central bore of compressor wheel B and central bore of support shaft to tensioning nut at the forward end of support shaft . Tensioning nut affixes to the forward end of tie bolt to engage turbine wheel B with compressor wheel B through curved tooth coupling B.

Support shaft comprises a cylindrical body that rides within forward bearing and aft bearing to support rotor assembly within engine . First shoulder and second shoulder retain and bias rotor assembly against forward bearing and aft bearing respectively. Hub comprises a cylindrical body disposed at the aft end of support shaft to mate with compressor wheel B. Compressor wheel B comprises a centrifical compressor and turbine wheel B comprises a centrifugal turbine such as is described with respect to to compress and react with airflows within engine . Aft bore of turbine wheel B is provided for weight reduction or balancing of engine . Counterbore is fit over hub such that the aft end of hub abuts shoulder of compressor wheel B. In one embodiment counterbore and hub form an interference fit. In other embodiments however hub is welded to or threaded into counterbore . Central bore extends from the aft end of counterbore through to the aft end of compressor wheel B.

Tie bolt extends from tensioning nut through central bore and central bore to the forward face of turbine wheel B. In the embodiment shown second end of tie bolt is welded to the forward face of turbine wheel B to provide a permanent connection with turbine wheel B. As such threaded couplings are removed from the hot section of engine . In other embodiments however rear end could be threaded into a mating bore within the forward face of turbine wheel B. Tie bolt has an outer diameter smaller than the diameter of central bore such that tie bolt and turbine wheel B are easily assembled. Also the diameters of tie bolt and central bore are selected to permit thermal growth of tie bolt and turbine wheel B. Tie bolt however also includes ring which assists in centering tie bolt within central bore . Forward end includes threads and is threaded into mating threads within tensioning nut such that turbine wheel B loads compressor wheel B against hub of support shaft . Tensioning nut is tightened onto tie bolt to engage coupling flange with coupling flange through tensioning tie bolt .

As is described with respect to coupling flange is disposed on the aft side of compressor wheel B to engage coupling flange which is disposed on the forward side of turbine wheel B. Coupling flange comprises an aftward projection upon which teeth of curved tooth coupling B are positioned to mesh with teeth on turbine wheel B. Profiled radii provide stress relief to flange . Coupling flange comprises a forward projection upon which teeth of curved tooth coupling B are positioned to mesh with teeth on coupling flange . Profiled radii provide stress relief to flange . As with tie bolt and tensioning nut of tie bolt and tensioning nut of hold and retain coupling flange in contact with coupling flange to maintain the aligned no motion required assembly of curved tooth coupling B.

Toothed coupling of present invention provides a compressor wheel and turbine wheel shaft coupling that is total cost effective enhancing component manufacture and engine assembly of miniature gas turbine engines. The convex and concave teeth of curved tooth couplings A and B are machined into their respective flanges in one embodiment of the invention using conventional machining processes such as grinding. Such process can be feasibly carried out in rotor assemblies fabricated from typical materials used in miniature gas turbine engines such as metals and alloys. Predictable manufacturing from part to part and lot to lot is thus achieved. Manufacturing costs of the shaft coupling of the present invention are therefore also kept to minimum levels. Thus total costs associated with miniature gas turbine engines used in expendable missions are reduced due to tooth coupling .

Additionally toothed coupling provides a more reliably accurate and robust compressor to turbine coupling system thus improving reliability of miniature gas turbine engines. For example curved tooth couplings A and B provide positive and precise engagement of compressor wheel A and turbine wheel A and compressor wheel B and turbine wheel B respectively based on the interconnection of the geometries of the convex and concave teeth of curved tooth couplings. The specific geometries of the curved tooth coupling teeth are selected based on design needs to transmit torque and retain axial retention. Such geometries include the radius of curvature of the convex and concave teeth tooth depth fillet radii at the tooth root number of teeth and the radial length of engagement along each tooth interface. The radial position of coupling flanges and can be selected to adjusted torsional effects on compressor wheels A and B and turbine wheels A and B. Due to the meshed axial engagement of curved tooth couplings A and B turbine wheels A and B are readily able to transmit operational envelope torque requirements of engine to shafts A and B respectively because of the enhanced robustness and accuracy of the curved tooth coupling system. Thus reliability of miniature gas turbine engines used in mission critical operations is increased.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the essence and scope of the invention.

