---

title: Cell culture apparatus and mass automatic cell culture device having it
abstract: The present invention relates to a cell culture apparatus and a mass automatic cell culture device having it. There is provided a cell culture apparatus comprising a cylindrical cell culture flask which is air-tightly sealed and formed of a transparent material to observe an internal portion thereof, an injection unit for supplying the cell and the culture solution into the cell culture flask, a collection unit for discharging the cells and the culture solution from the cell culture flask, and a cell culture flask receiving part which is comprised of first and second vertical frames in which a plurality of injecting parts and collecting parts, and plate type connection parts which are respectively disposed between upper ends and lower ends of the two opposed vertical frames to be spaced apart from each other in regular intervals, and a mass automatic cell culture device having it.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09057715&OS=09057715&RS=09057715
owner: CORESTEM CO., LTD.
number: 09057715
owner_city: Cheongwon-gun, Chungcheongbuk-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081128
---
This application is the U.S. national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of international application PCT KR2008 007037 filed Nov. 28 2008 which claims benefit of Korean Patent Application 10 2007 0123914 filed Nov. 30 2007.

The present invention relates to a cell culture apparatus for culturing a cell using a culture solution and various gases particularly to a cell culture apparatus in which a cell growth process is observed and cells is mass produced and easily cultured without much time and effort by using an automatic system and a mass automatic cell culture device having it.

Cell culture comprises aseptically cutting off tissue sections from multicellular organisms and providing nutritive components to them followed by incubation for cell proliferation in a vessel. The tissues of plants can be immortally proliferated.

A cell culture method includes a coverglass method a flask method a rotating tube method and the like. Generally endosperm leukocyte or spleen extracts are used to promote the growth of cultured tissues while its essential materials are not clearly elucidated yet. Recently an antibiotic or an eagle culture solution containing vitamins and amino acids are often used.

The tissue culture permits a single cell to culture to a cell population a small organ or a plant tissue.

The culture of living cells in a test tube is performed for various purposes for example recovery of additional by products generated by cellular metabolisms preparation of virus vaccines culture of cells to fabricate an artificial organ production of medicines by manipulating genes of an animal cell breeding of a plant by cell fusion.

In general the culture of animal cells requires culture media containing nutrients such as amino acids sugars inorganic nutrients and vitamins and their culture conditions are complicated. The plant cells have high viability due to their photosynthesis capabilities compared with animal cells and thus it is easy to culture them but their proliferation rate is slow.

In the field of biotechnology which has been rapidly developed since the 1980s the importance of the culture technology for mass producing animal cells has been emerged as animal cell culture technology has played an important role in industrialization of biotechnology drugs.

The animal cells derived from the tissues of animals or human can be cultured by floating them in a culture medium or attaching them to a substrate. The blood derived cells e.g. hematopoietic stem cells are primarily involved in suspension cells and adherent cells include the cells from the tissues such as skin liver or lung embryonic stem cells or mesenchyma stem cells.

The suspension cells per se enable to grow under a suspended condition in the medium while cell adhesion on the surface of solid materials is inevitable for the growth of the adherent cells. The suspension cells have been used as a main target to develop mass production methods since it is easy to maintain the maximal cell density per unit volume for scale up in the suspension cells.

Chinese hamster ovary CHO cell used in production of the biotechnology drugs is originally adherent cells but can be adapted into suspension cultures. In the adherent cells adapted into the suspension cultures there are some advantages of facilities of the scale up and cell concentrations with higher density. However the nutritions and oxygens are not supplied to the cells due to cell clusters generated during cell culture and most adherent cells are not adapted in the suspension cultures in general. Therefore an efficient method and system for mass producing the adherent cell has not been developed yet and thus industrialization using the adherent cells is not facile.

A predetermined space for culturing cells a culture solution for supplying nutritions to them and the various gases are required for cell culture. Certainly it is also the same in the plant cells.

Particularly the culture solutions and the various gases are introduced into the culture space and used for culturing cells following the periodical exchange with new ones to maintain the cell tissues in a fresh condition.

Therefore a cell culture device is essentially provided with a construction to supply and discharge the culture solutions and the various gases continuously and smoothly.

For the exchange of the culture solutions a method utilizes a pipet to suck the culture solutions to introduce and discharge them into the culture space. However it is inefficient due to a possibility involving the cells in discharged culture solution and a difficulty of smooth exchange of the culture solution.

According to another conventional method there is a method that the culture space is provided with an inlet port at one side thereof through which a predetermined amount of culture solution is introduced by an automatic or manual system and with an outlet port at the other side thereof through which the culture solution used is discharged in the same manner.

In this method a foreign substance could be introduced through the inlet port or the outlet port thereby contaminating the cells. This method is also inconvenient because a user always participates in operation of the cell culture device. Furthermore the mass cell culture is impossible due to the low efficiencies of the surface area caused from the use of the single device.

Furthermore it is required to make a lot of time and effort for massive cell culture and it is hard to determine the collection time of the cells because of the difficulties in observing their growth status.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a cell culture apparatus in which cells is easily cultured without much time and effort by using an automatic system and the collection time of the cells is determined by the observation of the cell culture apparatus and a mass automatic cell culture device having it.

To achieve the above object the present invention provides a cell culture apparatus comprising a cylindrical cell culture flask which is air tightly sealed to culture a cell using a culture solution and various gases and formed of a transparent material to observe an internal portion thereof an injection unit for supplying the cell and the culture solution into the cell culture flask a collection unit for discharging the cells and the culture solution from the cell culture flask and a cell culture flask receiving part which is comprised of first and second vertical frames in which a plurality of injecting parts and collecting parts for respectively receiving the injection unit and the collection unit are vertically formed to be opposed to each other and plate type connection parts for receiving cell culture flasks which are respectively disposed between upper ends and lower ends of the two opposed vertical frames to be spaced apart from each other in regular intervals thereby connecting the first and second vertical frames wherein injecting parts and collecting parts are aligned along the first and second vertical frames respectively and are empty cylindrical shaped spaces which provide rooms for a reciprocating action of injection units and the collection units wherein the first vertical frame is connected with the second vertical frame through plate shaped connection parts.

Preferably the cell culture flask is formed into a cylindrical shape with a predetermined height and comprises a culture space for cell culture and at a side surface of the cell culture flask is formed a culture solution inlet port for introducing the culture solution or the cell into the culture space a culture solution outlet port for discharging the culture solution or the cell from the culture space gas inlet port and gas outlet port to introduce and discharge the various gases into from the culture space and a foreign substance inlet port for introducing a foreign substance.

Preferably the cell culture flask is formed of a transparent plastic such as lexan and acryl or a non fragile tempered glass.

Preferably the collection part of the cell culture flask is formed of a transparent plastic such as lexan and acryl or a stainless steel.

Preferably the injection units and the collection units comprise i a syringe part with a power supply ii a culture solution storing part which is connected with the syringe part wherein the culture solution storing part is formed into a cylindrical shape for receiving the culture solution iii a contact part which is connected with the culture solution storing part and contacted with the culture solution inlet port or the culture solution outlet port of the cell culture flask to flow the culture solution wherein a contact part is formed at an end of the syringe part and has a funnel shaped iv a piston member which is disposed to be reciprocated in the culture solution storing part and v a connection member of which one end is connected with the piston member and the other end is connected with the power supply.

Preferably the power supply part comprises a motor which is operated by electric power supplied through a cable from an outside.

To achieve another object there is provided a mass automatic cell culture device comprising a hexahedral main body which has an empty space therein and a door to open and close one surface thereof a rotation driving device which is provided at a bottom surface of the empty space of the main body and makes a rotary motion a cell culture apparatus including a cylindrical cell culture flask which is air tightly sealed and formed of a transparent material an injection unit for supplying the cell and the culture solution into the cell culture flask a collection unit for discharging the cells and the culture solution from the cell culture flask and a cell culture flask receiving part which is comprised of first and second vertical frames in which a plurality of injecting parts and collecting parts for respectively receiving the injection unit and the collection unit are vertically formed to be opposed to each other and plate type connection parts which are respectively disposed between upper ends and lower ends of the two opposed vertical frames to be spaced apart from each other in regular intervals thereby connecting the first and second vertical frames a push unit which is provided with a plurality of semicircular plate type supports disposed on the connection part to cover a partial surface of the cell culture flask a plurality of first robot arms which are respectively coupled to a side surface of each support and reciprocated forward and backward to move the supports forward and backward and a driving part which receives ends of the plurality of the first robot arms and separately operates the first robot arms and an observation unit which is provided at an end of second robot arms that are vertically reciprocated on a vertical frame disposed at one side of the rotation driving device wherein the cell culture flask provided on the supports is independently protruded to an outside by the first robot arm of the push unit.

Preferably the mass automatic cell culture device further comprises a temperature controlling part which is provided at one side of the main body to control an internal temperature of the main body a gas supplying part which is provided at one side of the main body to supply gas to the cell culture apparatus an ultraviolet radiating unit which is provided on an internal upper surface of the main body to supply the ultraviolet light and a bottle shaped culture storing part which is connected through a tube to the injection unit or the collection unit of the cell culture apparatus to temporarily store the culture solution.

Preferably the temperature controlling part comprises a fan which is provided at one side of the main body to supply an external air to the main body a HEPA filter which is disposed at an internal surface of the main body to be adjacent to the fan and purifies the external air supplied from the fan a heat pipe which is disposed to be adjacent to the HEPA filter and supplies heat to the external air purified by the HEPA filter a temperature sensor which is disposed at one side of the main body to measure the internal temperature of the main body and a control part which operates the fan and the heat pipe when the temperature received from the temperature sensor is lower than the preset temperature.

Preferably the rotation driving device comprises a power supplying part which is operated by receiving electric power from an outside a rotational part which is rotated by the power supplying part and a driving part which is disposed at an upper side of the rotational part so that only an inclination thereof is changed to be corresponding to a rotational direction of the rotational part in a stopped state when the rotational part is rotated.

Preferably the rotational part comprises a rotational shaft of which one end is coupled to the power supplying unit to be rotated by the power supplying part a circular plate type first supporting part which is disposed at a lower end of the rotational shaft to rotatably support the rotational shaft a first supporting part fixing portion which is provided at a lower side of the first supporting part to fix the first supporting part to the rotational shaft a circular plate type second supporting part which is disposed at an upper side of the first supporting part to be connected with the first supporting part through a plurality of hinge members and which is formed with an opening at a center portion thereof a ball bearing receiving part which is provided on circumference of an upper surface of the second supporting part and formed with a spherical recessed portion to receive a part of the ball bearing and a ball bearing which is received in the ball bearing receiving part to be rolled.

Preferably the driving part has a circular plate shape for mounting the cell culture apparatus and a member with a spherical recessed portion in which the spherical end of the rotational shaft of the rotational part is pivotably inserted is provided at the internal surface of the circular plate in a form of the sphere.

Preferably the power supply part is a motor which is operated by electric power supplied from an outside.

Preferably the hinge member is disposed in which a central axis thereof is positioned at a center portion of both contacting portions and thus the hinge member can be freely pivoted in both directions.

Preferably the door comprises a handle a rod shaped member which is contacted with the side combined to the main body by a link and a guide member which is provided on an external upper surface of the main body to open and close the rod shaped member of the door.

Preferably the cell culture flask is formed of a transparent plastic such as lexan and acryl or a non fragile tempered glass.

Preferably the cell culture flask is formed of a transparent plastic such as lexan and acryl or stainless steel.

Preferably the injection units and the collection units comprise i a syringe part with a power supply ii a culture solution storing part which is connected with the syringe part wherein the culture solution storing part is formed into a cylindrical shape for receiving the culture solution iii a contact part which is connected with the culture solution storing part and contacted with the culture solution inlet port or the culture solution outlet port of the cell culture flask to flow the culture solution wherein a contact part is formed at an end of the syringe part and has a funnel shaped iv a piston member which is disposed to be reciprocated in the culture solution storing part and v a connection member of which one end is connected with the piston member and the other end is connected with the power supply.

Preferably the power supply part is a motor which is operated by electric power supplied through a cable from an outside.

According to Examples of the present invention described above cells is mass produced and easily cultured without much time and effort by using an automatic system and the collection time of the cells is determined by observing the growth state of the cells in the cell culture apparatus using a cell culture apparatus and a mass automatic cell culture device having it.

The objects characters or other advantages of this invention described above will become apparent to those skilled in the art by explaining the preferable Examples of the present invention in detail referring to the appended drawings. The cell culture apparatus and the mass automatic cell culture device having it according to the Examples of the present invention will be described in further detail together with the appended claims and drawings below.

As shown in the cell culture apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention includes cylindrical cell culture flasks which are air tightly sealed to culture a cell using a culture solution and the various gases and formed of a transparent material to observe an internal portion thereof injection units for supplying the cell and the culture solution into the cell culture flask collection units for discharging the cells and the culture solution from the cell culture flask and a cell culture flask receiving part which is comprised of vertical frames each in which a plurality of injecting parts and collecting parts for respectively receiving injection units and collection units are vertically formed to be opposed to each other and plate type connection parts which contact the space between the upper end and lower end of the two vertical frames in a constant interval.

Generally the culture space provided at the cell culture space has a flat surface without irregular or inclined portions. Otherwise a part of the culture space has an inclined surface.

The culture solution inlet port and outlet port are formed to be protruded from an outer surface of the cell culture flask and they may have a narrow end. The narrow end prevents a foreign substance from being introduced into the culture space and the culture solution from being leaked out where the culture solution is not flowed through the culture solution inlet port and outlet port .

The culture solution inlet port and the culture solution outlet port are provided in plural according to the necessity.

Preferably the culture solution inlet port and outlet port are disposed to be opposed to each other dividing a flow direction of the culture solution to supply or discharge the culture solution. In the culture solution inlet port and outlet port disposed to be adjacent to each other the culture solution may be flowed into the culture solution inlet port where the culture solution inlet port is opened to supply the culture solution. On the other hand the culture solution inlet port and outlet port are disposed to be adjacent to each other where there is no such possibility.

The gas inlet ports and gas outlet ports are formed to be protruded from the outer surface of the cell culture flask and they may have a narrow end. The gas inlet ports and gas outlet ports are provided in plural separately from the culture solution inlet port and outlet port .

In the animal cells cultured in the cell culture flask Osupply is needed and COsupply is required in the plant cells. These gases can be supplied through the gas inlet port . Meanwhile Nor other gases can be supplied.

Normal gas supply and discharge is essential to maintain the cell cultured in the cell culture flask in a fresh condition. Therefore the gas outlet port for discharging the gas supplied inside the cell culture flask to an outside is provided.

In a disposable cell culture flask since a predetermined amount of culture solution and gas is supplied to the cell culture flask and then grown cells are harvested the gas outlet port is not separately needed. In a cell culture flask used repeatedly the gas outlet port is required to maintain the cells in the fresh condition and an internal portion of the cell culture flask in a clean condition.

The gas outlet port is also used to supply the gas excessive or to remove gas generated from the cells per se.

To grow the cells normally the foreign substance inlet port for supplying a foreign substance can be separately provided. The foreign substance inlet port is provided with a cap type stopper for opening and closing. The stopper may be a general rubber stopper. The collecting tools such as a pipet can be used where the foreign substance is introduced through the foreign substance inlet port .

A user can collect a necessary amount of cells through the foreign substance inlet port . The pipet can be also used.

The cell culture flask shown in is formed of a transparent material for the researcher to observe a growth level of the cells from the outside. The transparent material includes a transparent plastic such as lexan and acryl. Preferably the transparent material is a non fragile tempered glass.

The cell culture flask represented in has a cylindrical shape but it is possible to be other shapes such as a rectangular parallelepiped structure and a polyhedral structure. On the other hand the cell culture flask formed of the cylindrical shape has a wide culture space and a high strength against external impact and is facilely moved due to the absence of its corner portion.

The cell culture flask receiving part for receiving the cell culture flask includes vertical frames each in which a plurality of injecting parts and collecting parts for respectively receiving injection units and collection units are vertically formed to be opposed to each other and plate type connection parts which contact the space between the upper end and lower end of the two vertical frames in a constant interval.

In the injecting parts and the collecting parts divided from each other the vertical frames each are disposed to be adjacent to each other. In addition each vertical frame may be vertically disposed to the connection part .

Each axial length of the vertical frames each is changed according to the number of injecting parts and collecting parts .

The injecting parts and the collecting parts are formed to be corresponding to outer shapes of the injection unit and the collection unit to install the injection unit and the collection unit .

The plate type connection part has a circular center portion to stably support the cell culture flask . To stably receive the cell culture flask by the plate type connection part it may use other structure such as a rod structure instead of the plate structure.

The interval between the connection parts is determined by a height of the cell culture flask for installation of the cell culture flask .

A handle is provided at an uppermost surface of the cell culture flask receiving part . Therefore the cell culture flask receiving part is stably and facilely transported by the handle without separation of each cell culture flask .

The cell culture flask receiving part is formed of a transparent material such as lexan and acryl to observe a growth level of the cells from the outside or a stainless steel to prevent corrosions.

The injection unit and the collection unit are constituted as a form of a syringe as a whole. The injection unit and the collection unit include a syringe part with a power supply part a culture solution storing part which is connected with the syringe part and receives the culture solution a contact part which is connected with the culture solution storing part and contacted with the culture solution inlet port or the culture solution outlet port of the cell culture flask to flow the culture solution a piston member which is reciprocated inside the culture solution storing part and a connection member of which one end is connected with the piston member and the other end is connected with the power supply part .

The injection unit and collection unit can be connected with or separated from the cell culture flask and also detachable from the cell culture flask receiving part . In other words only the cell culture flask is normally coupled to the cell culture flask receiving part . To supply or discharge the culture solution the injection unit or collection unit is coupled to the injecting part or collecting part of the cell culture flask receiving part .

The small power supply part is provided in the syringe part in which a detachable motor which is operated by electric power supplied through a cable from an outside is used. Other units such as a electromotor or a pump are also used as the power supply part .

The connection member comprises a linear rod which is simply reciprocated or a lead screw which is reciprocated during the rotation. However in the lead screw used as the connection member it is operated by rotational force of the motor.

Instead of using the power supply part like the motor a user can grasp an outer end portion of the connection member and apply force generating that the connection member is moved. In the cell culture not to mass produce cells but to obtain a small amount of particular cells for experiments the user can directly operate the connection member to collect the culture solution or the cells.

The culture solution storing part connected with the syringe part stores the culture solution flowed by the piston member .

The contact part connected with the culture solution storing part functions as a passage to flow the culture solution by contact to the culture solution inlet port or the culture solution outlet port of the cell culture flask .

The contact part is formed into an end part of the syringe e.g. a funnel so that a hole through which the culture solution is passed becomes narrow thereby increasing a flow rate of the culture solution.

It is possible to facilely supply and discharge the culture solution by providing an auto control unit to the injection unit and the collection unit or to the gas inlet port and the gas outlet port .

Given to the mass automatic cell culture device according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a hexahedral main body which has an empty space therein and a door to open and close one surface thereof a rotation driving device which is provided at a bottom surface of the empty space of the main body and makes a rotary motion a cell culture apparatus including a cylindrical cell culture flask which is air tightly sealed and formed of a transparent material a cell culture apparatus installing the cell culture flask the injection unit and the collecting unit in the cell culture flask receiving part a push unit which is provided with a plurality of semicircular plate type supports disposed on the connection part of a cell culture flask receiving part to cover a partial surface of the cell culture flask a plurality of first robot arms which are coupled to a side surface of each support and reciprocated to move the supports forward and backward and a driving part which receives ends of the plurality of the first robot arms and independently operates the first robot arms and an observation unit which is provided at an end of second robot arms that are vertically reciprocated on a vertical frame disposed at one side of the rotation driving device .

The cell culture apparatus includes cylindrical cell culture flasks which are air tightly sealed and formed of a transparent material injection units for supplying the cell and the culture solution into the cell culture flask collection units for discharging the cells and the culture solution from the cell culture flask and a cell culture flask receiving part comprising vertical frames each in which a plurality of injecting parts and collecting parts for respectively receiving injection units and collection units are vertically formed to be opposed to each other and plate type connection parts which contact the space between the upper end and lower end of the two vertical frames in a constant interval 

The mass automatic cell culture device further includes a temperature controlling part which is provided at one side of the main body to control an internal temperature of the main body a gas supplying part which is provided at one side of the main body to supply gas to the cell culture apparatus an ultraviolet radiating unit which is provided on an internal upper surface of the main body to supply the ultraviolet light and a bottle shaped culture storing part which is connected through a tube to the injection unit or the collection unit of the cell culture apparatus to temporarily store the culture solution.

The door of the mass automatic cell culture device is provided with a handle a rod shaped member which is contacted with the side combined to the main body by a link and a guide member which is provided on an external upper surface of the main body to open and close the rod shaped member of the door .

The cell culture apparatus is already described in detail with reference to and thus the description thereof will be omitted.

As shown in the plurality of supports which is attached to the ends of the plurality of first robot arms provided at the driving device of the push unit are disposed on the upper surface of each of the connection parts of the cell culture flask receiving part .

The plurality of first robot arms is reciprocated forward and backward by operation of the driving device of the push unit . One of the first robot arms or the plurality of first robot arms can be operated at the same time by the operation of the driving part . The driving part can be operated by oil pressure.

Since the first robot arm is repeatedly reciprocated it is preferable that it is prepared as an abrasion resistant material. Alternatively it can be formed of a stainless steel to prevent corrosion.

The first robot arm is reciprocated forward and backward by operating the driving part of the push unit and thus the cell culture flask put on the support which is connected with the end of the first robot arm is moved forward and backward along with the support .

In the cell culture flask is disposed on the support of the push unit . A rectangular box which is vertically shown at a center portion of the drawing represents the driving part . The injection unit and the collection unit are equally formed in a form of a syringe and the electric power was supplied to them through a cable .

Referring to the rotation driving device includes a motor which is operated by electric power supplied from an outside a rotational part which is rotated by the motor and a driving part which is disposed at an upper side of the rotational part so that only an inclination thereof is changed to be corresponding to a rotational direction of the rotational part in a stopped state when the rotational part is rotated.

Instead of the motor supplied with electric power other power supplying unit such as an electromotor or a generator can be used.

In the rotational part includes a rotational shaft of which one end is coupled to the motor to be rotated by the motor a circular plate type first supporting part which is disposed at a lower end of the rotational shaft to rotatably support the rotational shaft a first supporting part fixing portion which is provided at a lower side of the first supporting part to fix the first supporting part to the rotational shaft a circular plate type second supporting part which is disposed at an upper side of the first supporting part to be connected with the first supporting part through a plurality of hinge members and which is formed with an opening at a center portion thereof a ball bearing receiving part which is provided on circumference of an upper surface of the second supporting part and formed with a spherical recessed portion to receive a part of the ball bearing and a ball bearing which is rotatably operated in the ball bearing receiving part .

The rotational part is rotated by the motor and the driving part is operated to be corresponding to the rotational part but maintained in the stopped state regardless of the rotation of the rotational part . The rotational shaft fixed to the motor is formed into a rod shape that its body has a circular section. The rod can have a square section a triangular section and the like if it can be fixed to the motor .

It is apprehended that the end may be worn away due to its rotation or a component may be damaged where the end of the rotational shaft contacted with the driving part has an angular shape. Therefore it is preferable that the rotational shaft has a spherical end.

The first supporting part is disposed at the lower end of the rotational shaft fixed to the motor to allow the rotational shaft to be rotatably supported and the rotational shaft passes through a center portion of the first supporting part . Preferably the first supporting part is formed into a circular plate to maintain a stably balanced state upon the rotation thereof but may have other types.

The first supporting part fixing portion is provided at a lower side of the first supporting part to function to fix the first supporting part to the rotational shaft . In other words where the rotational shaft is rotated while only the first supporting part is coupled to the rotational shaft there is the possibility that the first supporting part is separated from the rotational shaft by gravity or centrifugal force. Therefore the first supporting part fixing portion functions to support the first supporting part .

In addition the first supporting part fixing portion functions to support a load of the first supporting part . Therefore the first supporting part fixing portion is formed of a rubber or other elastic member.

The second supporting part is disposed at the upper side of the first supporting part and the hinge member is interposed between the first supporting part and the second supporting part to support the second supporting part .

The hinge member is disposed in which a central axis thereof is positioned at a center portion of both contacting portions. Therefore unlike a general hinge member of which a central axis exists at one side thereof and thus which can be pivoted only in one direction the hinge member of the present invention can be freely pivoted in a clockwise or counterclockwise direction.

A center portion of the second supporting part is formed with an opening and the spherical end of the rotational shaft is protruded upward through the opening to be engaged with the power transmitting part .

The cylindrical ball bearing receiving part with the spherical recessed portion is formed on circumference of the upper surface of the second supporting part to receive a part of the ball bearing .

The ball bearing is inserted into the recessed portion of the ball bearing receiving part to be rolled. Since a large quantity of frictional heat is generated due to friction between the ball bearing receiving part and the ball bearing it is preferable that the ball bearing receiving part is formed of a heat resisting material.

Preferably the ball bearing receiving part and the ball bearing inserted into it are formed at least three places to prevent the driving part interlocked with the ball bearing from being out of balance. In case there are provided three ball bearing receiving parts the ball bearing receiving parts are disposed to be spaced apart from each other at an angle of 120 resulting that the driving part is operated in a balanced mode.

The second supporting part of the rotation driving device shown in is provided with four ball bearings and four ball bearing receiving parts . The ball bearing receiving parts are disposed to be spaced apart from each other at an angle of 90 so that the driving part is operated in a balanced mode.

Referring to showing the rotation driving device the driving part of the rotation driving device has a circular plate shape for mounting the cell culture apparatus and a member with a spherical recessed portion in which the spherical end of the rotational shaft of the rotational part is pivotably inserted is provided at the internal surface of the circular plate in a form of the sphere.

The ball bearing of the rotational part is directly contacted with the lower surface of the driving part of the rotation driving device . A ball bearing passage with an appropriate width is formed along a circumference of the lower surface of the driving part to smoothly roll the ball bearing .

In the motor operated the rotational shaft fixed to the motor is rotated. Thus the first second supporting part and the first supporting part fixing portion fixed to the rotational shaft are rotated according to the rotation of the rotational shaft and the second supporting part is also rotated because it is connected with the first supporting part through the hinge member .

When the rotational part is rotated as a whole the ball bearing disposed at the upper surface of the second supporting part is rolled in a reverse direction to a rotational direction of the rotational part . This is caused by friction force generated between a contacted surface of the ball bearing receiving part of the ball bearing and a contacted surface of the driving part of the ball bearing .

Since the ball bearing is rolled in a reverse direction to a rotational direction of the rotational part the driving part contacted with the ball bearing is not rotated but maintained in a stopped state. The spherical end of the rotational shaft is engaged with the member of the driving part which has the spherical recessed portion but since it does not exert an influence on the movement of the driving part due to the rolling of the ball bearing the driving part is also maintained in the stopped state.

The second supporting part and the cell culture device receiving part interlocked with the second supporting part are also inclined where the hinge member is inclined to one side on its central axis for the rotation of the rotational shaft.

In the rotational part rotated in a state inclined to one side since the driving part is maintained in the stopped state it is periodically moved while only an inclination thereof is changed in the rotational direction of the rotational part .

In other words as the driving part is inclined in an inclined direction of the hinge member of the rotational part and the inclined direction is changed due to the rotation of the rotational part an inclined direction of the driving part is also changed. However the driving part is not rotated due to the rotation of the ball bearing .

Due to repeat of such motion as described above the cells cultured in the cell culture apparatus provided on the upper surface of the driving part can be appropriately mixed and the culture solution is equally distributed whereby the cells in the cell culture apparatus are evenly grown.

In other words since a part of the cells in the cell culture apparatus is submerged under the culture solution and other part is exposed to an internal space of the cell culture apparatus due to the rotation of the driving part the consumption of the culture solution is reduced compared with a conventional flask culture in which the entire surface is submerged under the culture solution. Since oxygen is sufficiently supplied due to the rotation the stability to glucose metabolism of the cells is increased compared with a conventional culture method.

In addition it is convenient since it is not necessary for the user to shake the cell culture device in a manual manner. And since a large friction force is not generated therein it can be used for a long time period without any damage.

Furthermore according to the present invention it is possible to control a rotational speed of the rotational part by providing a separate automatic control unit.

As shown in in which the cell culture apparatus is not installed on the driving part of the rotation driving device there are provided the push unit the observation unit disposed at one side of the rotation driving device the temperature controlling part for controlling an internal temperature of the main body the gas supplying part which supplies gas to the cell culture apparatus the ultraviolet radiating unit which supplies ultraviolet light and the culture storing part which temporarily stores the collected culture solution in mass automatic cell culture device .

The vertical frame is provided at one side of the rotation driving device and the second robot arm is disposed at a conveying member which is vertically reciprocated on the vertical frame . The observation unit is disposed at the end of the second robot arm to be directed to the rotation driving part . In the conveying member moved on the vertical frame vertically the second robot arm is operated to be moved left and right. Therefore the observation unit disposed at the end of the second robot arm is conveyed to a place where a user wants to observe. As results the observation unit is moved vertically and horizontally generating that it is freely operated in a two dimensional manner.

A CCD camera of which magnification is controlled could be used as the observation unit . According to the cell culture apparatus installed a user can easily observe the cells grown in the cell culture flask from an outside by using the CCD camera.

Likewise it is possible to store an image representing an amount of the observed cells and a culture state by setting a storing program.

The gas supplying part is provided at a lower surface or a side surface in the main body to supply gas into the cell culture flask of the cell culture apparatus . Therefore it is possible to constantly supply various gases. A gas meter for displaying an amount of supplied gas is provided at a front surface of the main body and the amount of gas is externally shown using a liquid crystal display .

The ultraviolet radiating unit is provided on the internal upper surface of the main body to supply the ultraviolet light. The ultraviolet radiating unit emits a blue ultraviolet light to sterilize the internal portion of the main body .

The culture storing part is provided at the internal lower surface of the main body in a bottle shape and The culture storing part connected through the tube to the injection unit or the collection unit permits to temporarily store the culture solution. The culture storing part is provided in plural according to the necessity.

As represented in the temperature controlling part is provided at a rear surface of the mass automatic cell culture device to control the internal temperature of the main body .

The temperature controlling part includes a fan which is provided at one side of the main body to supply an external air into the main body a HEPA filter which is disposed to be adjacent to the fan at an internal surface of the main body and purifies the external air supplied from the fan a heat pipe which is disposed to be adjacent to the HEPA filter and supplies heat to the external air purified by the HEPA filter a temperature sensor which is disposed at one side of the main body to measure an internal temperature of the main body and a control part which operates the fan and the heat pipe where the temperature received from the temperature sensor is lower than the preset temperature.

By providing the HEPA filter it is not necessary to provide a separate air purifying unit and it is possible to maintain the internal portion of the main body in a cleaned state.

The heat pipe is arranged to be bent thereby supplying a large quantity of heat and thus increasing heat efficiency.

The temperature measured by the temperature sensor is displayed on a temperature displaying part . Alternatively the temperature measured is displayed by using the liquid crystal display .

The control part can control an amount of the gas supplied to the cell culture apparatus and also control the injection unit and the collection unit of the cell culture apparatus to supply or discharge the culture solution.

When the user wants to observe the internal portion of the cell culture flask provided in the cell culture apparatus the observation unit can be moved near the cell culture flask to be observed by the two dimensional movement of the vertical frame and the second robot arm . Then the user can observe the cells in the cell culture flask through the observation unit and thus determine a growth level of the cells and whether the culture solution is insufficient.

By setting a program in the mass automatic cell culture device it is possible to automatically control the rotation of the rotation driving device the supply and discharge of the culture solution the internal temperature of the cell culture device and the supply of the gas.

The articular cartilage cells AC cells were cultured by using the present mass automatic cell culture device . After freeze preserved AC cells from 8th passage are defrosted the AC cells were seeded in the cell culture apparatus at a low density of 850 cells cmand then cultured for 9 days without exchange of the culture medium.

During the cell culture the conditions in the cell culture apparatus were maintained as follows 6.5 of COconcentration 37 C. at temperature and 1 rpm with a rotational speed of the cell culture flask . As a comparative example the same AC cells were seeded in a general flask T 25 flask at the same density and then stationary cultured in a COincubator under the same culture conditions COof 6.5 temperature of 37 C. .

During the culture of seeded AC cells the number of cells was measured every day to calculate a fold increase and a glucose level was also measured every day by using a glucometer. As results the fold increase of the cells is similar in the two examples but the glucose level is higher in the cell culture apparatus of the present invention compared with the T 25 flask. In other words since oxygen is sufficiently supplied in the cell culture apparatus of the present invention by the rotation driving the consumption of the glucose is reduced during the cell culture. Consequently it could be appreciated that the cell culture in the present cell culture apparatus has higher energy metabolism efficiency than the stationary culture in the general flask T 25 .

The glucose is an energy source for the cells which is commonly contained in the culture medium. Where the oxygen supply is sufficient the glucose is metabolized through glycolysis into pyruvate in the body and then oxidized in the citric acid cycle to produce COand water. However where the oxygen supply is insufficient the pyruvate does not enter the citric acid cycle but enters the lactate fermentation process for energy production. Furthermore the glycolysis is repeated to metabolize the glucose and the citric acid cycle is not normally operated and lactic acid is accumulated.

The fact that the glucose level is reduced compared with the fold increase of the cells means that the citric acid cycle is not normally operated due to lack of oxygen. Ultimately it means that the culture method of the present invention using the rotation driving is further advantageous in metabolizing the glucose compared with the stationary culture using the general flask T 25 .

According to the cell culture flask of the present invention since the cells can be adhered within a cylindrical culture tube the culture space is maximized. The cells is alternatively contacted with the culture medium and air to sufficiently receive the air as a part of the cells adhered in the culture tube is submerged under the culture solution and other part is exposed to the internal space of the culture tube due to the rotation driving.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conceptions and specific embodiments disclosed in the foregoing description may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other embodiments for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that such equivalent embodiments do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

