---

title: Engine inlet ice protection system with power control by zone
abstract: A system includes a first heater located at the leading edge of a gas turbine structural member, a second heater located aft of the first heater, and a third heater located aft of the second heater. The first, second and third heaters are electrically-powered to prevent icing of the gas turbine structural member. Each of the heaters has a Watt density, and the Watt densities of the heaters differ from one another as a function of a magnitude of a cooling coefficient for airflow passing the vicinity of each heater.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08049147&OS=08049147&RS=08049147
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08049147
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080328
---
The present invention was developed pursuant to Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by United States Air Force. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

During operation gas turbine engines especially those used in aerospace applications face an undesirable risk of ice accretion on engine components. Ice that forms on engine inlet components can break loose and be ingested by the engine potentially causing damage or wear to the engine. In order to avoid such problems it is desired to provide an ice protection system that reduces ice formation on engine structural components while also maintaining relatively low power expenditures by the ice protection system.

A system includes a first heater located at the leading edge of a gas turbine structural member a second heater located aft of the first heater and a third heater located aft of the second heater. The first second and third heaters are electrically powered to prevent icing of the gas turbine structural member. Each of the heaters has a Watt density and the Watt densities of the heaters differ from one another as a function of a magnitude of a cooling coefficient for airflow passing the vicinity of each heater.

The present invention provides an ice protection system for a structural member of a gas turbine engine such as an inlet strut or vane. More particularly the present invention provides electrically powered heaters having different Watt density embedded within the structural member at different locations along the structural member as a function of cooling coefficients for airflow passing the structural member during engine operation. Furthermore the locations of different heaters according to the present invention can also be arranged as a function of cooling coefficients for airflow passing the structural member during engine operation. One or more heaters can be powered substantially continually during engine operation or at least during flight conditions while other heaters located generally downstream can be selectively powered according to a duty cycle.

The ice protection system includes a first electrothermal heater a pair of second electrothermal heaters A and B and a pair of third electrothermal heaters A and B. All of the electrothermal heaters A B A and B are embedded within the strut . The first electrothermal heater is positioned at the leading edge of the strut . The pair of second electrothermal heaters A and B are arranged opposite one another along the sidewalls and respectively and downstream aft or rearward from the first electrothermal heater . The pair of third electrothermal heaters A and B are arranged opposite one another along the sidewalls and respectively and downstream aft or rearward from the pair of second electrothermal heaters A and B.

Each electrothermal heater A B A and B can be of a conventional type for instance each can be formed as from a spray metal resistive layer disposed on fiberglass webs. Suitable electrothermal heater mats can be obtained from GKN plc. Redditch United Kingdom. Such electrothermal heater mats are then embedded in the strut during molding of the strut in an overmolding process whereby the electrothermal heater mats are epoxied directly within the strut . A gap sized as small as possible is present between adjacent electrothermal heaters A B A and B in order to electrically insulate the electrothermal heaters A B A and B. The number of electrothermal heaters and their locations can vary as a function of the leading edge radius and thickness of the strut as well as the cooling coefficient along the strut as explained further below. Greater or fewer electrothermal heaters can be utilized in further embodiments. The distance from an exterior surface of the strut at which the electrothermal heaters A B A and B are embedded can vary based upon the thermal conductivity of the particular material selected to form the strut .

The Watt densities of the electrothermal heaters A B A and B are different in different locations along the strut . A first Watt density of the first electrothermal heater is greater than a second Watt density of each of the pair of second electrothermal heaters A and B which in turn is greater than a third Watt density of each of the pair of third electrothermal heaters A and B. In one embodiment the first Watt density is about three times as great as the second Watt density and the second Watt density is about two times as great as the third Watt density. The particular relationships of the first second and third Watt densities can vary for different applications based upon the relevant cooling coefficient distribution.

The risk of ice accretion on the strut generally varies along the chord length of the strut as a function of the cooling coefficient along the external surfaces of the strut . The ice collection efficiency on the strut also present a greater risk of ice accretion the greater the radius of curvature meaning that the greatest risk of ice collection risk is at the leading edge . Accordingly the first Watt density for the first electrothermal heater is greatest because the cooling coefficient and the risk of ice accretion are greatest at the leading edge of the strut . However in order to reduce the overall power expenditure of the ice protection system of the present invention the Watt densities of the downstream electrothermal heaters A B A and B are lower than the first Watt density of the first electrothermal heater .

A first electrothermal heater extends through a first region along the strut second electrothermal heaters extend through a second region along the strut and third electrothermal heaters extend through a third region along the strut . In the illustrated embodiment the first region corresponds to a portion of the curve representing the cooling coefficient h that has a relatively steep average slope and the greatest magnitudes. The second region corresponds to a portion of the curve representing the cooling coefficient h that has a significantly lesser average slope than in the first region and lower magnitudes. The third region corresponds to a portion of the curve representing the cooling coefficient h that has a nearly flat or zero slope and the least magnitudes.

In order to further reduce power consumption by the ice protection system the various electrothermal heaters can be selectively powered independent of each other. For instance in the first region power can be provided to generate heat substantially continuously during engine operation or at least during flight conditions while in downstream regions e.g the second and third regions and power can be cycled on and off according to a fixed duty cycle. In one embodiment power is selectively provided to each of the second and third regions and every one minute. In this way the first region can provide anti icing to reduce ice formation in an area most prone to ice accretion. while the downstream second and third regions and can provide de icing to periodically melt any ice that has frozen in any of those regions or re frozen in of those regions after being previously melted further upstream. The use of de icing modes of operation can help reduce overall power consumption while still providing suitable ice protection.

It should be recognized that the present invention provides a number of advantages. For instance the present invention provides electrically powered ice protection to a gas turbine engine structural member with a relatively low overall power expenditure. Moreover by embedding the electrothermal heaters within the structural member the heaters obtain protection from foreign object damage and wear.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

