---

title: Atmospheric water harvesters
abstract: An atmospheric water harvester includes a cooling member over which humid air flows to condense moisture from the atmosphere. The cooling member may be the evaporator of a conventional, gas vapor-based refrigeration circuit. If a gas vapor-based refrigeration circuit is used, the compressor of the circuit may be variable speed. A fan or impeller used to move air through the system may also be variable speed. A preferred embodiment includes a variable flow geometry thermal economizer section configured such that, to varying degrees, the incoming air may be pre-cooled, before it passes over the cooling member, by heat exchange with colder air that has already flowed over the cooling member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08627673&OS=08627673&RS=08627673
owner: Water Generating Systems LLC
number: 08627673
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080325
---
This invention was made with Governmental Support under Contract Number N00014 05 C 0378 dated Sep. 14 2005 and issued by the Office of Naval Research ONR . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to atmospheric moisture harvesting and improvements in the efficiency of condensing water from air and in apparatus relating thereto. More particularly the invention provides improved energy efficient extraction of water from air particularly in outdoor settings and over a range of relative humidity.

Atmospheric water harvesting is intended to produce water in the general vicinity of its place of use. Producing potable water near its place of use removes the requirement for either temporary or fixed water delivery systems such as pipelines and canals or temporary delivery systems such as bulk motorized water tankers. Production of high quality water at or near its place of use is superior to transporting bottled drinking water which requires substantial consumption of energy for delivery and waste disposal. Water harvesters are also superior environmentally because water bottle disposal is not an issue water bottles are reused in conjunction with water harvesting. In addition the water produced from suitably designed and operated water harvesters is pure and suitable and safe for drinking with very little treatment.

Water harvesting has not generally been regarded as a replacement for conventional piped water supplies because of its relatively higher cost and lower volumes. In present water systems there is an effective waste of public high quality water that is used for low quality uses such as flushing toilets and watering lawns.

Conventional water supplies are running short because of increased demand and local overuse of natural water supplies. In addition the cost of conventional water supplies is increasing significantly. One of the drivers of increased water cost is the incorporation of desalinated water which is relatively expensive to produce using current technologies in the basic supply. Perceptions about the quality of public water supply has led to bottled water being used increasingly as a regular personal drinking water source even though it is much more expensive than public water supply.

In atmospheric water harvesting condensation of water is achieved by providing and maintaining a chilled surface upon which water from moist air condenses. This is well known as a byproduct of chilling air as in air conditioning systems in which chilling the air is the objective or in air dehumidification systems in which the objective is to achieve relative dryness of the exhaust air. However water produced as a byproduct in these systems is more expensive to produce than that which is produced in a water harvester apparatus that is optimized for energy efficient water production by not overcooling air or water. In addition byproduct water quality is generally not suitable for drinking and can be dangerous without additional treatment that is not provided for by an apparatus that does not have water production as a primary objective.

Water harvesting apparatus that has been specifically designed to produce water from air already exists but without the efficiency and sophistication of this invention which allows the production of water of the same or superior quality as bottled water but without the delivery or environmental waste issues and in quantities that are suitable for personal or family use on a regular and extended basis. Water harvesting provides high quality potable water without the continued cost of producing bottles directly in proportion to the quantity of water delivered at a lower cost than bottled water.

The present invention provides improved apparatus and methods for condensing water from air. These improvements involve but are not limited to an improved water condenser improved condenser airflow control a variable speed air impeller forced air or conductive cooling of all heat producing parts of the system new intake air controls and provision for system controlled on off switching for the compressor. The apparatus is robustly designed and constructed is resistant to common handling vibration and shock and is meant to be moved by hand locally although it may also be fixed. The apparatus is intended for use either outdoors or indoors in a semi autonomous mode and where air quality is generally good. Water is pumped from a removable collection tank underneath the evaporator into which water has flowed by gravity either directly or through a water treatment system to the user. Although the water exiting the water harvester has the character of distilled water and is very pure for prolonged drinking of this water alone some of the produced water should be remineralized.

Ambient air is drawn in through the filter assembly which may include more than one filter or type of filter into the pre evaporator air passage . Water is condensed from the air on the evaporator heat exchanger as the air is pulled through it. Condensation on the evaporator is the key process of atmospheric water harvesting. The condensation process is made as efficient as possible by using a high thermal transfer heat exchanger for the evaporator for instance a narrow bore PFheat exchanger manufactured by the Modine Manufacturing Company. In order to prevent aluminum or other metals from the evaporator from being dissolved in condensing water a coating is applied to the evaporator . The coating also may have antibacterial properties. Among but not limited to examples of this type of coating are a silver ion containing epoxy available from Burke Industrial Coatings and another Alcoat 5000 or similar available from Circle Prosco that also offers corrosion protection and may assist shedding of water from the condensing surface of the evaporator .

Regarding the compressor a fixed or a variable speed compressor may be used. In one configuration of an AWH according to the invention a fixed speed compressor which is the simplest type and is most commonly used in refrigeration apparatus is used. Such compressors are cycled on and off to minimize their running time. They are commonly operated along with a temperature sensing device that measures and controls the system superheat which is the difference between the temperature of the gas entering the compressor and the evaporation temperature of the liquid refrigerant within the evaporator . This device e.g. a thermostatic expansion valve TXV or TEV amongst other types of electronic and mechanical devices is located between the condenser and the evaporator . It controls temperature in the evaporator in which vaporization of the refrigerant is directly related to cooling potential by metering the flow of fluid refrigerant through the system. In an alternate configuration a variable speed compressor is used which runs almost continuously but only as fast as necessary to maintain the desired pressure differential between the evaporator and the condenser . A temperature sensing device that measures and controls the system superheat may be used with this sort of variable speed compressor as well. In either of these configurations a cut off switch not shown here which is operated by sensors that detect freeze up on the evaporator turns off the compressor to allow ice to melt before restarting.

In the AWH embodiment shown in the evaporator is in a vertical orientation as shown in . Water black single stem arrows formed on the upper evaporator surfaces flows down over the subjacent evaporator surfaces which has the effect of amalgamating the water into rivulets as well as droplets as it flows from the evaporator to the subjacent water collector . Because rivulets are more coherent water masses with higher mass to surface area ratios they are less liable to lose water to the airstream moving at about a 90 degree angle across the flowing condensed water. Additionally the water passing from the evaporator to the water collection tank may be only very slightly affected by air flow which does not impinge toward the water collection tank .

With an alternate orientation of the evaporator as shown in water is removed from a horizontally oriented evaporator also labeled by forced air moving in the same direction as the condensed water separating from the evaporator . Water droplets flow directly downward single stem black arrows under the combined influence of gravity and forced air into the water collection tank . Water is more rapidly removed following condensation which may have the result of reducing overcooling of already condensed water and allowing better heat transfer than in the case of coalescing water flowing over the evaporator. This is because water on the evaporator acts as an insulator against heat transfer between the evaporator surface and the moist air . This horizontal orientation minimizes run off of amalgamated or rivulet coalesced water on the evaporator surface in favor of keeping most of the water in the form of droplets until it leaves the evaporator. However droplets have to cross the exhaust air path and may be entrained in the air. Angled evaporators not illustrated would have attributes intermediate between upright or vertical and horizontal evaporators.

Water that has condensed on the evaporator flows downward by gravity into a water collection region tank beneath the evaporator and then into a removable water collection tank not shown that is from five to ten gallons or greater in capacity. Multiple tanks allow users to carry water from the water harvester. Alternatively water may be pumped from the collection tank by a pump located in the body of the AWH through an industry standard replaceable water filter that is located in a compartment that is isolated from the airflow passages within the apparatus. Treated water that has passed through the water treatment system remains under pressure after passing through the filter and exits from ports not shown at either or both the top and sides of the apparatus . A straight through water filter body without a filter may be used to produce water that is to be used for industrial purposes or that is otherwise not required to be treated to drinking water standards. 

Air exiting from the evaporator on which water has condensed then passes into an air passage under suction caused by the fan impeller . The air from the fan impeller then passes through a downstream air passage and through the vaned condenser where the air cools the compressed refrigerant that is being pumped to the condenser from the compressor . After heat exchange warms it the exhaust air passes into an exhaust chamber from which it is exhausted through louvers in the walls of the AWH the approximate locations of which are shown by arrows.

In a suitable configuration of the AWH the impeller or fan is capable of running at variable speed which is controlled by varying electrical current or voltage. This allows the impeller or fan to force air through the apparatus at different velocities to optimize water production on the evaporator with respect to the electrical energy consumed. A variable speed impeller or fan allows the airflow over the evaporator to be varied optimizing water production by for instance increasing fan speed for high humidity air or preventing or remediating unintended freeze up where slower airflow could otherwise allow the air to reach a dew point below freezing. Slowly moving air can be cooled to lower temperatures and has a greater likelihood of reaching dew points below freezing regardless of the original air temperature. Alternatively the fan or impeller may be fixed speed which may be less efficient under a wide range of input air temperature and humidity conditions but less expensive to implement and not significantly more expensive to operate under consistently humid conditions such as may be found on tropical low lying smaller islands.

Sealed electronic controls and computer systems that control the refrigeration and airflow system for all embodiments of this invention are integrated in a control pad not shown that is located in the top cover of the water harvester for easy operation. In order to prevent overheating of the electronic control pad the bottom surface of the electronic control pad is a conduction heat exchanger that is exposed to the cold airflow stream upstream and or downstream from the condenser. Thus heat that may be produced within the pad or by heating of the pad externally by heat exchange with ambient air or heating by the sun may be removed and the pad kept within operating temperature conditions.

In the embodiment the compressor is located within the exhaust air chamber . Where a compressor is used that is designed to be cooled internally for instance using refrigerant discharge inside the compressor there is no need for other cooling of the compressor. With that type of compressor it is possible to insulate it with noise absorbing material for quieter operation. The air within this chamber is slightly over pressured with respect to ambient air outside the apparatus which allows for distribution of air within the chamber in the direction of sidewall vents. Air vents that form a large proportion of the side of the enclosure are located generally in the exterior sidewall of the exhaust chamber exhaust air shown by black arrows but actual vents may be widespread in the wall in order to allow air to vent from the apparatus.

Two further embodiments will be described with reference to respectively in which there are slight variations in the handling of air within the AWH following extraction of water from it. In these embodiments as well as in another embodiment as described below similar system components are similarly numbered but increased to the corresponding hundreds series to match the embodiment number . Unless otherwise described the similarly numbered components are the same as or generally similar to those described above and may have similar attributes.

Where an AWH must be operated in very hot ambient temperatures or where a compressor that requires external cooling is used forced air cooling may be provided by controlling airflow in two general manners. These are shown in in which an embodiment uses existing exhaust for cooling of the compressor and in in which an embodiment uses a supplemental supply of ambient air for cooling the compressor . shows airflow around the compressor from the central part of the exhaust chamber created by locating louvered sidewall vents downstream from the compressor . This configuration forces air to pass the compressor in exiting from the exhaust chamber . In the alternate embodiment shown in an internal partition isolates the compressor from the exhaust chamber . In this configuration vents in the outer hull of the AWH allow air to be pulled in by suction into the air passage upstream from the impeller .

The three embodiments that have been described above will work best in high relative humidity RH conditions. In general where RH is high particularly where temperature is also high and relatively large amounts of water are dissolved in the air condensation on the evaporator takes place by reducing the temperature of the humid air to the point where condensation initiates. Where intake air is at a high humidity for instance in excess of 85 RH water will begin to condense with relatively little energy consumed by chilling. The sensible heat of the humid air which is the term applied to heat associated with temperature change must be removed to lower the temperature of the air slightly and bring the air to 100 RH locally at which point condensation is initiated. As condensation proceeds the latent heat which is that required to cause the water vapor to condense to liquid water is removed by heat exchange on the evaporator. Following the initiation of condensation both sensible heat and latent heat are removed from the air being processed in the AWH as the air temperature is further reduced slightly and water is condensed and extracted. When RH is low on the other hand it is beneficial to be able to remove sensible heat before the air reaches the evaporator so that the cooling potential of the evaporator continues to remove a minimum of sensible heat and a maximum of latent heat which has the effect of maintaining the energy efficiency of water production. High humidity ambient air requires very little additional cooling to initiate condensation. The delivery of air to the evaporator at approximately 90 99 RH which is the general range for humid ambient air is the primary objective for the most economic water production through condensation.

A variable pre cooling embodiment of an AWH which is configured to operate well under low as well as high ambient RH conditions and preferably at RH points in between is illustrated in . Most notably in comparison to the embodiments described above the embodiment includes a variable flow geometry thermal economizer section located upstream of the impeller and its inlet air passageway . The thermal economizer section is suitably housed within a forward extension of the AWH housing and includes an air to air heat exchanger located between the evaporator i.e. downstream from the evaporator and the impeller i.e. upstream of the impeller . Preferably the heat exchanger is directly connected to the evaporator and the impeller entry air passageway or is connected via ducting to those components such that air does not seep out from between the evaporator and the heat exchanger or from between the heat exchanger and the impeller. A preferred air to air heat exchanger is fabricated from thin walled tubes e.g. as available from Cesarroni Technologies from thin walled corrugated plastic plate e.g. as available from Innergy Tech AB Segerfroejd or Greenbox or from corrugated metal plate e.g. as available from Xetex and Des Champs Technology . In general such air to air heat exchangers include two sets at least of interleaved flow passageways that are typically arranged perpendicularly to each other. In the AWH embodiment the heat exchanger is arranged with 1 a first set of heat transfer flow passageways not illustrated specifically oriented longitudinally i.e. generally aligned with the main or overall direction of flow through the AWH and 2 a second set of heat transfer flow passageways not illustrated specifically that are oriented transverse to the first set of heat transfer flow passageways i.e. laterally as in the embodiment shown in or vertically. Although the heat transfer flow passageways are not illustrated specifically their presence and orientation is represented by the thin dashed line flow arrows in that traverse the heat exchanger laterally representing the second set of flow passageways and the wide double stemmed flow arrow in that traverses the heat exchanger longitudinally representing the first set of flow passageways . 

Upstream of the heat exchanger the air intake of the AWH i.e. the entrance to the thermal economizer section is configured to regulate the amount if any of air that flows through the second transverse set of heat exchanger flow passageways. To that extent a motorized sliding panel mounted in a support or frame is provided near the entrance to the thermal economizer section and an airway partition extends from a lateral mid location suitably but not necessarily the center of the panel support or frame to an end of the evaporator . Suitably the panel extends vertically from the top to the bottom of the thermal economizer section entrance laterally assuming the airway partition abuts the frame at the lateral center of the AWH the panel is slightly wider than half the width of the thermal economizer section entrance.

With this arrangement of the AWH intake when the panel is all the way to one side of the entrance to the thermal economizer section i.e. to one side of the airway partition as shown in a first inlet aperture is formed on the opposite side of the airway partition . When the apparatus is in this operational configuration air enters the thermal economizer section through the first inlet aperture and flows through the transverse e.g. lateral set of air passageways through the air to air heat exchanger . The air then turns and flows through the evaporator which cools chills the air to condense moisture out of it before the air flows through the longitudinal set of air passageways through the heat exchanger and on to the impeller. Because the air flowing through the longitudinal set of heat exchanger air passageways has been cooled by the evaporator it will absorb sensible heat from the air flowing through the transverse set of heat exchanger air passageways thus pre cooling the incoming air before it reaches the evaporator . This allows a greater percentage of the evaporator work to be directed to removing latent heat from the incoming air and thus improves water production efficiency.

On the other hand as noted above it is relatively easy to condense moisture from ambient air that has high RH. Therefore it becomes less important or beneficial to pre cool the air before it passes across the evaporator . In this case the panel may be moved all the way across the entrance to the thermal economizer section to the opposite side of the airway partition which opens up a second inlet aperture i.e. a bypass inlet as shown in . When the apparatus is in this operational configuration air enters the thermal economizer section through the second inlet aperture and flows immediately over evaporator then down to the fan impeller through the longitudinal set of heat exchanger air passageways without first having flowed through the transverse set of heat exchanger air passageways for pre cooling. This improves operational efficiency in terms of amount of water produced per unit of electricity consumed. In particular air density increases with humidity and resistance to flow i.e. frictional drag increases with air density. Therefore by shortening the overall airflow distance and in particular by bypassing the portion of the flow course passing through the transverse set of heat exchanger airflow passageways airflow drag is reduced. This in turn reduces operational load on the fan or impeller and hence the cost to drive the fan or impeller for a given volumetric flow rate of air through the AWH . Alternatively for a given amount of electricity consumed the fan or impeller can be run faster assuming it has that capability which allows more water to be produced in a given period of time and at a given operating cost.

In practice the panel may be positioned at various points between the two endpoints shown in . Depending on the position of the panel the relative sizes of the first and second inlet apertures will vary which regulates the amount of air flowing through the transverse set of heat exchanger airflow passageways and hence how much pre cooling of the incoming air is provided. Suitably the position of the panel and hence the relative sizes of the inlet apertures is controlled automatically by a computer controller which receives information on ambient conditions from on board temperature and humidity sensors . Using pre programmed maps or lookup tables and or using sensors that measure internal humidity levels at the evaporator so as to provide feedback based control the controller adjusts the position of the panel such that the intake air is cooled to the point that 90 to 99 RH air is passing across the evaporator and or until at some point the pre cooling potential is at a maximum. From that point to lower temperatures and RH an increasing amount of sensible heat has to be removed from the incoming air by the evaporator which means that increasing electricity must be used to produce relatively smaller amounts of water. With such an automatic configuration of the AWH the speed of the fan impeller may also be adjusted automatically assuming it has variable speed capability .

In a simpler implementation automatic control over the position of the panel and hence the sizes of the intake apertures may be omitted. In that case it may be preferable for the AWH to be configured with springs cams detents etc. not shown such that the panel stably assumes only the position shown in or the position shown in but not positions in between. The user would then manually move the panel to one side or the other depending on humidity existing generally at the time the AWH is being operated.

Furthermore in the embodiment of an AWH illustrated in the sizes of the two air intake apertures and are directly linked to each other and always vary inversely to each other as the position of the panel changes. For finer control and optimization of efficiency water produced per unit of electricity water produced per unit of time or water produced per volumetric unit of airflow on the other hand it may be desirable for the sizes of the air intake apertures to be independently controllable preferably by computer . To that end the air intake apertures may be formed as separate louvered openings as illustrated in sphincter openings etc. A variable speed fan impeller is particularly suitable for use with such an embodiment to fine tune operation of the AWH as much as possible. 

Alternatively instead of controlling the amount of airflow through each of the inlets by varying the size of their openings it is possible to regulate the relative amounts of airflow by controlling the speed of the air flowing through each opening. To that end a variable speed fan or impeller can be provided in association with each opening as shown in . Such variable speed fans or impellers could be provided in addition to the variable speed fan or impeller or alternatively instead of the fan or impeller .

Various attributes of the embodiments of AWH s described above e.g. variable speed refrigeration compressor may be incorporated into the embodiment of an AWH as well.

Reverting to more general discussion applicable to any of the embodiments disclosed herein unwanted mixing between intake and exhaust air has the potential to reduce the humidity of the intake air which would have the effect of increasing energy use and decreasing water production. The intake and exhaust are located on generally opposite sides of the apparatus to separate them as much as possible without using intake or exhaust pipe extensions. In still air exhaust will generally tend to be propelled away from the apparatus while intake air will be drawn from the ambient air at the other end. Where a water harvester is operated outdoors changing wind direction and velocity may be anticipated. Shift of wind direction will have an impact upon the potential for mixing intake and exhaust air particularly when the wind is blowing from the exhaust end and toward the intake end of the water harvester. Optimum conditions for minimum mixing of intake and exhaust air occur when the wind is blowing generally on the intake and away from the exhaust.

A manual switch may be provided on the control panel not shown to initiate a timed cycle in which the air system operates but the condenser system is turned off. This allows air to be passed through the unit without water being condensed from the air. This provides for drying of the internal air courses and their surfaces including the evaporator and condenser . At the initiation of the cleaning drying cycle dilute chlorine spray from a hand pump rechargeable container is sprayed into the intake air stream in sufficient quantities so that all internal air passages including the main condenser and water collection area are sufficiently exposed to allow for effective sterilization of the system. The unit continues to run which has the effect of drying the internal surfaces and leaving the unit dry. If it is to be operated again in a relatively short time or if it is to be stored in a dry climate controlled location packing in an air tight container may not be necessary. Where the unit may be off for more than a short time it should be packed in a sealed manner.

Provision may be made for quick fitting a backup hand pump so that water may be filter treated or removed from the water harvester under pressure if the pump fails. It is also possible to recover the water directly from the removable water tank by removing it and pouring the water out manually.

The apparatus is wheeled and has handles suitable for pulling or lifting even on ground that is not flat or smooth. It is designed and fabricated to be robust and to be operated out of doors without regard for weather conditions. All embodiments of the water harvester are weather proofed with sealed electronics louvered intakes screening as part of the filter assembly all embodiments and on intakes and exhausts. The apparatus is suitable for placement by hand without mechanized lifting or towing equipment. It can be left in one location over a period of time and can be manually brought under cover for protection in advance of major storms and redeployed manually.

The foregoing disclosure is only intended to be exemplary of the methods and apparatus of the present invention. Departures from and modifications to the disclosed embodiments may occur to those having skill in the art. For example while an air to air heat exchanger as disclosed and described may be preferred other forms of heat exchangers such as heat pipes a fluid loop recirculation system or an inverse vapor compression refrigeration system running in tandem with the primary refrigeration section may be implemented. Furthermore the evaporator of a vapor compression based refrigeration system is but one type of cooling device that may be used to cool the incoming air. Other cooling devices such as thermoelectric cooling devices could also be used. The scope of the invention is set forth in the following claims.

