---

title: Context-based interests in computing environments and systems
abstract: Techniques for determining an interest in an object of interest in a given situation are disclosed. Multiple situation-based interest rating components can be provided for various situations. Each situation-based interest rating component can include an interest value indicative of interest in an object of interest in one of the situations. An input situation can then be obtained. One of the situation-based interest rating components can be identified matching an input situation. The relevance of one or more of the other situation-based interest rating components to the identified matching component can then be determined. This can, for example, be done by computing one or more distances between only the respective situation-based portions of the matching situation-based interest rating component and one or more of the other components, or based on the interest value-based portion of each component, or both.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554767&OS=08554767&RS=08554767
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 08554767
owner_city: Suwon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081223
---
Conceptually a computing system e.g. a computing device a personal computer a laptop a Smartphone a mobile phone can accept information content or data and manipulate it to obtain or determine a result based on a sequence of instructions or a computer program that effectively describes how to process the information. Typically the information used by a computing system is stored in a computer readable memory using a digital or binary form. More complex computing systems can store content including the computer program itself. A computer program may be invariable and or built into for example a computer or computing device as logic circuitry provided on microprocessors or computer chips. Today general purpose computers can have both kinds of programming. A computing system can also have a support system which among other things manages various resources e.g. memory peripheral devices and services e.g. basic functions such as opening files and allows the resources to be shared among multiple programs. One such support system is generally known as an Operating System OS which provides programmers with an interface used to access these resources and services.

Today numerous types of computing devices are available. These computing devices widely range with respect to size cost amount of storage and processing power from the expensive and powerful servers relatively cheaper Personal Computers PC s and laptops to more inexpensive microprocessors or computer chips provided in storage devices automobiles and household electronic appliances.

A popular task for many computing devices is to link people with relevant information. Different computing devices perform such linking in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. Many people for example are accustomed to typing keywords into an Internet search engine to find desirable information. Visitors to an e commerce site are often greeted with ads and recommendations tailored to their preferences. Particular computing devices derive such recommendations from a comparison between the visitor s past purchasing decisions and the purchasing decisions of other users.

The generation of recommendations in this manner can involve the processing of large amounts of user data. Various techniques have been used to optimize such processing. Some computing devices use fixed predetermined rules that prioritize one type of user data over another in making a recommendation. Other computing devices for example pose direct questions to a user to determine what the user desires at a later time.

These approaches while effective in many applications have weaknesses. Direct questioning is often disliked by users and consumes time and system resources. Rules typically require updating and may be based on faulty assumptions.

Another weakness of current approaches is that they do not seem to generate recommendations based on multiple contexts such as time and location.

Accordingly techniques that can help computing devices make better recommendations for one or more users would be useful.

Broadly speaking the invention relates to computing systems. More particularly the invention pertains to techniques for predicting a level of interest in given situation. The situation can for example be presented by multiple contexts conditions and or circumstances.

Techniques for determining an interest in an object of interest in a given situation are disclosed. Multiple situation based interest rating components can be provided for various situations. Each situation based interest rating component can include an interest value indicative of interest in an object of interest in one of the situations. An input situation can then be obtained. One of the situation based interest rating components can be identified as matching an input situation. The relevance of one or more of the other situation based interest rating components to the identified matching component can then be determined. This can for example be done by computing one or more distances between only the respective situation based portions of the matching situation based interest rating component and one or more of the other components or based on the interest value based portion of each component or both.

One embodiment of the invention pertains to a method of determining interest in an object of interest in a given situation. The method includes obtaining multiple situation based interest rating components for various situations. Each situation based interest rating component includes an interest value. The interest value indicates interest in an object of interest in one of the situations. These components may be structured in a variety of ways. For example a particular component may indicate that a user has an average interest level of 2.34 i.e. a moderately low level of interest in games when he is at home in the morning. Each of the situations e.g. home and morning may be effectively represented by a plurality of context variables e.g. time and location . Each of the context variables in turn is associated with multiple possible context values e.g. the context variable time may have possible context values morning noon and night etc. In some embodiments each situation based interest rating component pertains to a different situation and thus different context values.

The method also includes obtaining an input situation that is effectively represented by a plurality of input context values. The input situation may refer to a variety of conditions and or circumstances. A particular input situation for example may refer to the current time or location of a user.

Afterwards one of the situation based interest rating components is identified as a matching situation based interest rating component. This identification operation is based on the input situation. The operation may be performed in various ways. For example in a particular embodiment if the input situation is home and morning then the situation based interest rating component that is also associated with home and morning would be identified as the matching component.

The relevance of one or more of the other situation based interest rating components to the matching situation based interest rating component is then determined. In some embodiments this operation involves computing a distance between portions of the matching situation based component and other components. In other embodiments the distance calculation makes use of components in their entirety. A projected interest value for the input situation is then determined. This determination is based on the one or more relevancies calculated in the previous operation.

Various embodiments of the invention use a wide variety of situation based interest rating components context variables context values interest objects and or interest levels. For example the context variables and values may pertain to environmental variables e.g. proximity to other devices or human beings temperature GPS signals motion acceleration etc. internal variables e.g. active applications on a computer time mode of operation etc. and or other factors. The incorporation of multiple context variables helps improve the accuracy and relevance of the resulting prediction.

Various embodiments may entail different types of encoding and predicting operations depending on the needs of a particular application. For example in some embodiments situation based interest rating components and context values are encoded as binary multi dimensional vectors. In certain iterations of the invention the prediction of a projected interest value may use a weighted sum. The weighted sum may take many forms. For example the weighted sum calculation may be based at least partly on the calculating of a distance between a vector associated with the matching situation based interest rating component and a vector representing a different situation based interest rating component. The calculating of a distance may use a cosine distance formula a Euclidean distance formula or some other type of formula and or algorithm.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including for example a method an apparatus a computer readable medium and a computing system e.g. one or more computing devices . Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

Techniques for determining an interest in an object of interest in a given situation are disclosed. Multiple situation based interest rating components can be provided for various situations. Each situation based interest rating component can include an interest value indicative of interest in an object of interest in one of the situations. An input situation can then be obtained. One of the situation based interest rating components can be identified matching an input situation. The relevance of one or more of the other situation based interest rating components to the identified matching component can then be determined. This can for example be done by computing one or more distances between only the respective situation based portions of the matching situation based interest rating component and one or more of the other components or based on the interest value based portion of each component or both.

One embodiment of the invention pertains to a method of determining interest in an object of interest in a given situation. The method includes obtaining multiple situation based interest rating components for various situations. Each situation based interest rating component includes an interest value. The interest value indicates interest in an object of interest in one of the situations. These components may be structured in a variety of ways. For example a particular component may indicate that a user has an average interest level of 2.34 i.e. a moderately low level of interest in games when he is at home in the morning. Each of the situations e.g. home and morning may be effectively represented by a plurality of context variables e.g. time and location . Each of the context variables in turn is associated with multiple possible context values e.g. the context variable time may have possible context values morning noon and night etc. . In some embodiments each situation based interest rating component pertains to a different situation and thus different context values.

The method also includes obtaining an input situation that is effectively represented by a plurality of input context values. The input situation may refer to a variety of conditions and or circumstances. A particular input situation for example may refer to the current time or location of a user.

Afterwards one of the situation based interest rating components is identified as a matching situation based interest rating component. This identification operation is based on the input situation. The operation may be performed in various ways. For example in a particular embodiment if the input situation is home and morning then the situation based interest rating component that is also associated with home and morning would be identified as the matching component.

The relevance of one or more of the other situation based interest rating components to the matching situation based interest rating component is then determined. In some embodiments this operation involves computing a distance between portions of the matching situation based component and other components. In other embodiments the distance calculation makes use of components in their entirety. A projected interest value for the input situation is then determined. This determination is based on the one or more relevancies calculated in the previous operation.

Various embodiments of the invention use a wide variety of situation based interest rating components context variables context values interest objects and or interest levels. For example the context variables and values may pertain to environmental variables e.g. proximity to other devices or human beings temperature GPS signals motion acceleration etc. internal variables e.g. active applications on a computer time mode of operation etc. and or other factors. The incorporation of multiple context variables helps improve the accuracy and relevance of the resulting prediction.

Various embodiments may entail different types of encoding and predicting operations depending on the needs of a particular application. For example in some embodiments situation based interest rating components and context values are encoded as binary multi dimensional vectors. In certain iterations of the invention the prediction of a projected interest value may use a weighted sum. The weighted sum may take many forms. For example the weighted sum calculation may be based at least partly on the calculating of a distance between a vector associated with the matching situation based interest rating component and a vector representing a different situation based interest rating component. The calculating of a distance may use a cosine distance formula a Euclidean distance formula or some other type of formula and or algorithm.

As noted above various techniques exist for making recommendations on behalf of a user. These techniques are effective in certain circumstances but have weaknesses as well. Some of these techniques for example require direct feedback from users about their interests or utilize fixed predetermined rules that prioritize one type of user data over another.

It will be appreciated that the invention does not require such features. As a method for predicting interest in an object of interest given a specific situation one embodiment of the invention involves obtaining a situation based interest rating component. A situation based interest rating component can take many forms. For example one type of component is derived from data captured from a user s prior behavior and characterizes a user s interests e.g. in terms of type of interest intensity of the interest etc. in a specific situation. For instance one situation based interest rating component may indicate that a user on average has an interest value of 2.34 indicating a moderately low level of interest in music when he is at home in the evening. Such situation based rating components could be determined for many different situations e.g. interest value 3.75 for being at home in the evening interest value 1.72 for being at work in the morning etc. .

In this embodiment after situation based interest rating components have been obtained for multiple different situations a specific input situation is obtained e.g. at home in the evening. Then a matching situation based interest rating component is found for the specific input situation. In some embodiments the matching operation is based at least in part on finding a matching situation although other aspects of the components may also be taken into account. Using a simple example if the input situation is at home in the evening the matching situation based interest rating component may be the component also associated with at home in the evening. 

The relevance of this matching situation based interest rating component to other situation based interest rating components is then determined. This relevance determination for instance could involve encoding at least portions of the situation based interest rating components including the matching one and computing distances between the matching situation based interest rating component and the other components. Based on this evaluation an interest value in an object of interest is predicted.

One embodiment of the invention is depicted in . illustrates computing system which includes one or more components situation interest analyzer and situation based interest level predictor . In the illustrated embodiment components run applications observe processes in the system and or store logs of past activity etc. Computing system has one or more processors not shown and may be configured in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. For example computing system may be a mobile device a server and one or more clients and or multiple computer devices.

Situation interest analyzer is configured to determine situation based interest rating components. In the illustrated embodiment these components are based on data accumulated from various internal and external sources. Situation interest analyzer receives data relating to internal contexts from components and external contexts from the outside environment. It also may also correlate such data with additional information characterizing interests on the part of one or more users i.e. types of interests the intensities of those interests user actions implying specific interests etc. . The types of contexts examined by the situation interest analyzer can vary widely depending on the needs of a particular application. Examples of internal contexts include the number and type of applications that are currently running modes of operation logs of past user behavior and or timing information. Examples of external contexts may include data relating to location speed motion proximity to a device GPS signals and or temperature. Situation interest analyzer may take into account other factors and contexts as well.

Based on the above data situation interest analyzer produces situation based interest rating components . In the illustrated embodiment the situation based interest rating components capture situation based interest patterns in the accumulated data. For instance one of the situation based interest rating compounds may indicate that the user has on average a moderately high level of interest indicated by a numerical value of 4.35 on a range of 0 to 5 in game applications when he or she is at home in the evening.

Situation based interest rating components are then received by situation based interest predictor . Situation based interest predictor also receives additional input external contexts and input internal contexts . Situation based interest predictor uses this data to generate predicted interest value . In the illustrated embodiment predicted interest value is an estimation of a degree of interest in an object of interest that would occur in a situation represented by input external contexts and input internal contexts . To use a very simple example situation based interest predictor may receive input relating to a location based external context e.g. workplace and a time based internal context e.g. the afternoon . Based on situation based interest rating components and these inputted context values the context based interest level predictor in this example may predict that the interest level in say a gaming application would be high as opposed to medium or low. To predict such values the situation based interest predictor may encode some or all of the situation based interest rating components as vectors and selectively calculate distances between them. Of course the characteristics and operations of the situation based interest predictor may vary widely depending on the needs of a particular application.

One embodiment of the invention illustrated in pertains to a method that predicts an interest level in an interest object given an input situation. The operations in will be elaborated upon in further detail with reference to . However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments. The method begins with optional step of which involves obtaining data relating to specific interest levels occurring in situations characterized by various context values.

Such data may take a variety of different forms. For example certain types of data involve a linking between a specific level of interest in an interest object e.g. a high level of interest in pop music and two or more context values e.g. being at home in the evening . Other types of data may be more or less specific and or integrate other factors. The data may be drawn from the actions of one or more users the tracking or observation of patterns of behavior and or be estimates. The data can be formatted and stored in a variety of ways as well. For example the data can take the form of multiple data associations in which context variables which represent one or more situations are associated with specific interest levels.

A simple more detailed example of a data association is provided in . In the illustrated embodiment five data associations are presented in rows. The context variables and relate to place and time respectively. The interest objects include an interest in a game application and an interest in a news application. Each data association has context values for the context variables and interest values for the interest objects. For example data association has context variable place with the context value work context variable time with the context value night and an interest level of 1 in a gaming application and an interest level of 2 in a news application. In this example the interest levels are drawn from the range of integers between 0 and 4. This data association could be taken to mean for example that at one point in time a user evidenced a low level of interest in a gaming application but a slightly higher level of interest in a news application at work during the night. Other interpretations and relationships between the various values and variables are also possible. Other data associations may have similar or different values.

It should be appreciated that the data associations variables and or values may be configured in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. In certain embodiments context values and interest levels may be predefined and or limited to a discrete number of values. For example in the highly simplified example of the context values for the context variables place and time are encoded as multi dimensional binary vectors i.e. vectors that encode data in the form of multiple 0 s and 1 s or other equivalent values . Context variable place has two possible context values home and work which are encoded as 1 0 and 0 1 respectively. Context variable time has three possible context values morning midday and night which are encoded as 1 0 0 0 1 0 and 0 0 1 respectively. This is referred to as 1 in N encoding. In other words for a specific context variable N is an integer equal to the number of possible context values. Each context value for that variable is encoded as a vector with N binary values. In the illustrated embodiment the context value vectors for a specific context variable are similar in that they have the same number of values but each is unique in terms of where their respective values are positioned. For instance with regard to context variable place context value work has a 1 in the second position and context value home has a 1 in the first position. A variety of other encoding mechanisms are also possible. In the illustrated embodiment such encoding helps to streamline later operations in method of as will described later in this application.

In step of multiple situation based interest rating components are obtained. In the illustrated embodiment these components aggregate and indicate patterns in data associations of . helps to illustrate one simple example of this concept. displays multiple situation based interest rating components which are arranged in rows. Each situation based interest rating component such as component associates a situation represented by context variable and context variable with an interest object . More specifically each situation based interest rating component is assigned to a different situation of N situations. Furthermore each situation based interest rating component indicates an interest value which indicates an intensity of an interest in interest object when the corresponding situation arises.

The arrangement and configuration of the situation based interest rating components of may vary depending on the needs of a particular application. For example each of the components may contain fewer or more context variables context values interest objects interest values and or other items. Any portion of each component may be encoded as binary values a vector and or some other format. In particular embodiments the number of situation based interest rating components is the same as the total number of possible situations e.g. if situations are defined by 2 context variables with X and Y numbers of possible context values respectively then the number of situation based interest rating components would be XY . Under particular conditions interest values and or context values may be missing from certain situation based interest rating components. In some embodiments each situation based interest rating component is associated with only one situation and or one interest object. Particular embodiments involve components in which the number and or type of context variables possible context values interest objects and or possible interest levels are predefined and or limited to a discrete number. To use a simple example the context variable time may be expressed using 1 of only 6 context values indicating different periods during the day. The situation based interest rating components can be created processed and or stored in various kinds of hardware software and or both. Some embodiments involve such components in a computer readable medium such as a hard drive or flash memory.

Each of the situation based interest rating components of associates an interest value with a different situation although this is not a requirement. Component for example estimates an interest in a game as 2.33 from 0 to 4 arising in a situation involving home and night. Components correspond to different situations involving different combinations of the context values place and time. 

Situation based interest rating components can be determined in a wide variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. In the particular embodiment illustrated in the interest values are derived from the data associations in . Situation based interest rating component of will be used as an example. As noted earlier component represents the estimated interest in games i.e. interest value 2.33 that would arise in a specific situation i.e. the workplace at night. To calculate component the interest values of specific data associations of are averaged. In this example this averaging calculation is applied only to those data associations that relate to the same situation as component i.e. data associations and which all refer to a situation involving the workplace at night. Data associations and have interest in game values of 1 2 and 4 respectively making their average 2.33 which is the interest value presented in for component . It should be appreciated that although the above example involves averaging the interest values of all data associations sharing a situation with the situation based interest rating component in question additional criteria may be used to include or exclude data associations from the averaging calculation. The above averaging calculation presents only one simple way of determining situation based interest rating components. Various other techniques may also be used.

In step of the input situation is received. This input situation can take on various forms and be derived from a variety of sources. For example the input situation can be represented by multiple input context values. In some embodiments the number of possible input situations is similar to or exactly the same as the number of situation based interest rating components and or the number of possible situations associated with the components. The input situation the situation based interest rating components and or the data associations may be limited to the same types of context variables and context values. The input situation may characterize a situation from the past present future and or be selected arbitrarily. To use a simple example the input situation in one embodiment may involve recognizing that a user is currently at work in the morning. 

In step of one of the situation based interest rating components is identified as a matching situation based interest rating component. In particular embodiments the matching component is the one whose situation matches partly or completely that of the input situation. To use the example presented in if the input situation is workplace at night then the matching situation based interest rate component would be component of . This identification operation however need not be based solely on a situation. In particular embodiments it is based on entirely different or additional factors such as the interest value.

In step of the relevance of at least a portion of one or more other situation based interest rating components to the matching situation based interest rating component is determined. This relevance calculation may be performed in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. Particular embodiments involve determining relevancies of only portions of components to portions of the matching component such as only the situation related portions the interest value related portions or both. The determining of relevancies could also involve components as a whole. Some embodiments involve calculating one or more distances between the matching situation based interest rating component and other components. With respect to the example presented in and the previous paragraph this would mean that distances would be calculated between matching component of and at least one of the other components 

The distance calculation may be performed in a variety of ways. One example is hereby presented with reference to . As discussed earlier the context values for each of the situation based interest rating components is encoded as vectors. It should be appreciated that any portion including the interest value portion of each component may be encoded in vector form. For example situation based interest component includes context value work which is encoded as the vector 0 1 and the context value night which is encoded as vector 0 0 1. In a similar vein the situation of component is encoded as work vector 0 1 and morning vector 1 0 0. One way to calculate a distance between these two vectors is combine the context value vectors for each component to form two larger vectors and to calculate a distance between those vectors. In the illustrated example calculating the distance between component and could mean calculating a distance between the vector 0 1 0 0 1 the combined context value vectors for component and the vector 0 1 1 0 0 the combined context value vectors for component . The inputs to the distance calculation need not be limited to situation related vectors. They may include interest values non binary vectors and or other factors depending on the needs of a particular application. Thus the vectors used in a distance calculation may include values other than situation based ones such as interest values.

The aforementioned distance may be calculated using a variety of different formulas. For example two possibilities include a Euclidean distance formula and a cosine distance formula. Other formulas or algorithms are also possible. The cosine distance for example between a vector A defined as aa. . . a and a vector B defined as bb. . . b may be calculated as follows 

In some embodiments of the above equation 0 values are converted into very small values. The above equation may be modified or reformulated depending on the needs of a particular application.

The number of distance and or relevance determinations may vary depending on the needs of a particular application. For example in the relevance of matching component to all other components i.e. at least components may be determined. In alternative embodiments this determination is not applied to components and because the latter two components lack sufficient interest value data. Various factors and conditions may be involved in determining whether the relevance determination is applied to a certain situation based interest rating component or not.

In step of a projected interest value in the object of interest is determined based on the relevance determinations. This step is elaborated upon in further detail in . presents situation based interest predictor which generates projected interest value . As inputs situation based interest predictor receives input situation which was discussed above and interest values which are weighted by weights respectively.

The interest values are derived at least partly from the interest values of specific situation based interest rating components such as interest values of components of . In the illustrated embodiment weights influence the degree to which each associated interest value contributes to projected interest value . Interest values and weights may be selected and or calculated in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. In the illustrated embodiment of the weights are determined using the distance calculations described earlier. In this simple example the number of interest values and weights are also determined by the distance calculations. More specifically the weights used in the situation based interest predictor to generate projected interest value are derived from those situation based interest rating components that were closest in distance to the matching component. The number of situation based interest rating components to be used in such a derivation may be limited to a predefined number K. Thus in a simple example where K 5 and the matching situation based interest rating component was component of interest values of match the interest values of those 5 components of components that are closest to component . Factors other than closeness may be used to determine the source of interest values . K may be smaller larger equal to the total number of situation based interest rating components predetermined and or automatically generated.

In certain embodiments once weights are calculated they can be inputted into the context based interest level predictor to generate projected interest value . The formulas used to predict the interest value may vary greatly depending on the needs of a particular application. One approach is to use a weighted sum. The following formula for example makes a prediction for an interest value based on the following weighted sum equation 

In the above exemplary equation P is the predicted interest value for a specific interest object. V refers to the interest value of the i th component of K situation based interest rating components. The function relevance relates to the relevance calculations described above e.g. a distance equation. S refers to the input situation. C refers to the i th situation based interest rating component.

Context based interest level predictor of may produce one or more predictions. In particular embodiments it will predict interest levels for a wide range of interest objects e.g. given that the user is at home in midday his interest in TV is high his interest in sports is high his interest in spreadsheet applications is low etc. Particular embodiments involve interest level predictions for hundreds or thousands of interest objects.

In some cases it may be determined that there is insufficient data to support a prediction of an interest value related to a particular interest object. Some embodiments involve predicting an interest value using the interest values predicted for one or more other interest objects e.g. a predicted interest in pop music may be based on a predicted interest in classical music music applications or a combination of other interest objects. Another possibility is to predict an interest value in an interest object based on evaluating and or averaging the range of possible interest values for that interest object. To use a simple example if an interest in game applications is measured on a scale of 0 to 6 a 3 may be predicted for a user since it is the midpoint of the range. Other approaches are also possible.

The prediction equation may take a number of different forms depending on the needs of a specific application. For example the prediction equation may involve various kinds of context values interest levels interest objects weights situation based interest rating components variables and or values. The weighted sum used above may be modified or replaced entirely with another equation. In certain embodiments the prediction may be informed by factors other than the components situations values and weights referenced in a relevance determination distance calculation and or a weighted sum formula. One embodiment may involve using predictions of various interest levels to return better search results to a user accessing a search engine. The predictions may be based not only on the context values characterizing the situation of the user e.g. the time of day the user s location and activity logs etc. but also on the keywords the user is typing in as well as other types of data. In one example the prediction could be improved by reviewing a history of the user s past searches and or page views and determining from them additional keywords and or data that may help improve the accuracy of the search. In this example such keywords and data may influence the predictions but may not be used in a weighted sum formula and or included in a set of probability values as described earlier.

Another embodiment of the invention is presented in . describe an exemplary method that addresses circumstances in which the intensity of a user s interest in an object of interest is unknown or unclear in one or more situations. Method may be used to predict an interest value for one such situation which in turn may be used to predict interest values for other situations.

Initially in step of method multiple situation based interest rating components are obtained. One or more of these components is an unknown interest rating component with an unknown interest value. In other words the interest value of this component is inadequately supported unclear and or non existent. To use a simple example it may represent a circumstance in which it would be desirable to know the intensity of user A s interests in say game applications when user A is at home in the evening but the intensity of that interest is not known with a sufficient level of certainty.

In step the relevance of one or more situation based interest rating components to the unknown interest rating component is determined. In some embodiments this determination is based only on portions of each such component. In certain other embodiments the determination is based on each of these components as a whole. This operation may take place in a manner similar to aspects of step of . As noted above the determination of such relevancies may involve the encoding of situations interest values and or entire situation based interest rating components as vectors and the finding of distances between such vectors.

In step a first projected interest value for the unknown interest rating is determined. This step may take place in a manner similar to step of .

Particular embodiments involve the addition of steps to method of . One such embodiment is presented in . In step the unknown interest value for the unknown interest rating component is substituted with the first projected interest value described in step of . The unknown interest rating component which previously had an unclear or unsupported interest value associated with it now has been updated with a new interest value. This updated interest rating component can be used to make further predictions as outlined in steps and .

In step an input situation is obtained. In step one of the situation based interest rating components is identified as matching the input situation. These steps may be similar to steps and of . In particular embodiments these steps may identify another situation based interest rating component that lacks a clear and or well supported interest value.

In step the relevance of at least a portion of one or more situation based interest rating components to at least a portion of the matching situation based interest component is determined. The group of situation based interest components that are involved in this determination may or may not be different from the ones referred to in step . In many aspects this step may be performed in a manner similar to step of and step of . In step however the group of components involved in this relevance determination includes the updated interest rating component formerly the unknown interest rating component described in steps and of respectively. Thus the results of the first prediction which was determined in step of are being used to augment a second prediction which is described in step of .

In step a second projected interest value is predicted. This step may be performed in a manner similar to steps and of and respectively.

It should be appreciated that steps and in part or in whole may be repeated numerous times. Particular embodiments involve multiple situation based interest rating components in which the components fall into two groups. Some of these components are well supported and have associated interest values that are believed to be reasonably accurate. Other components in the same group however may have defective interest values i.e. interest values that are unclear non existent and or possibly inaccurate. These components raise a concern that for instance the preferences or interests of one or more users are unknown in certain types of situations. The steps mentioned above can be used to substitute a defective interest value of a component with an estimated one which in a manner of speaking repairs the component. By iterating this process previously repaired components can potentially be used to make predictions for and repair other components.

Particular embodiments of the invention offer several advantages. For example in making predictions the invention allows for the weighing of numerous different context variables and context values so that more accurate predictions of an entity s interests can be made. The context variables and values tracked and or processed by embodiments of the invention can vary greatly depending on the needs of a particular application. For example the context variables and values may pertain to geographical factors physical biological factors environmental variables e.g. location temperature presence of nearby devices GPS signals components proximity of human beings buildings and or signals motion acceleration velocity etc. and or internal variables e.g. time open and or active applications mode of operation condition event power force Internet browsing behavior pattern of selected ads direct or indirect feedback from the person etc. .

Another advantage of some embodiments of the invention is their ability to flexibly respond to changing environments and circumstances. For example in particular embodiments new context values and variables can be easily integrated into the making of future predictions. Some embodiments do not require training or direct feedback from a user about the user s interests because situation based interest rating components and predictions can be generated dynamically and or invisibly from various sources of data such as observed user behavior. Additionally certain embodiments need not rely on predetermined rules that prioritize some context variables context interest interest objects and or interest rules over others e.g. a rule prioritizing a place context variable over a time variable etc. . Particular embodiments involve a weighing or prioritization process that is derived entirely from a comparison or distance calculation involving the matching situation based interest rating component and one or more other situation based interest rating components e.g. as described in step of . Certain embodiments do not have or require a rule that predetermines a greater weight for one situation based interest rating component context variable interest object and or interest value over others prior to the collection of user data the obtaining of situation based interest rating components and or relevance determinations involving one or more of the same.

Another advantage of particular embodiments is that there is no need to cluster data. Particular embodiments of the invention do not involve defining a number of clusters clustering two or more data points finding the centers of clusters and or calculating a distance between a data point and a center of one of the clusters.

An additional advantage is that particular embodiments of the invention can be used to predict the interests of a user without accessing the behavior of other users. That is in certain embodiments of the invention situation based interest rating components and predictions may be derived from data collection systems that are limited only to the contexts behavior and or characteristics of a single person or a selected group of people. This approach helps to improve privacy.

A number of applications may be envisioned for particular embodiments of the invention. For example one embodiment involves a client mobile device such as a cell phone PDA health monitor or portable laptop computer and a server. The client mobile device has a communication link with the server so that data can be exchanged between them. The client mobile device may store a log of the person s behavior and possibly transmit it to the server for long term storage and processing. Such log data could be transformed into data associations or some other format and stored in a computer readable medium. Portions or all of the log data could be processed by the server to obtain situation based interest rating components. For example data parsing could unveil that the person typically has a high level of interest in spreadsheet applications at work in the morning and has on average a low level of interest in spreadsheet applications at home in the evening. The client mobile device may also be used to obtain the input situation e.g. as described in step of and transmit it the server. The client mobile device for example may inform the server that the person is currently near a specific retail outlet in motion and in downtown New York. The server could use various situation based interest rating components and the input situation to make a prediction of the person s interest in an object of interest in accordance with steps and of . For example the server could predict that the person would have a high degree of interest in consumer electronics and retail advertisements in part because the person is out shopping and has shown such a pattern of interest under similar circumstances in the past.

In some embodiments an action may be taken based on a prediction once it is determined that the predicted interest level has reached a certain threshold. Particular embodiments of the invention involve identifying situations as characterized by specific combinations of context values that prompt the running of an application because of an earlier prediction that the interest levels for one or more interest objects is particularly high when that particular combination of context values arises. In the above example a server may calculate that a user s interest level in retail advertisements and electronics is high when the device and therefore the person is in motion and near specific retail outlets. The mobile device may transmit an alert to the server when the mobile device detects that such conditions have arisen. In response the server may direct the mobile device to transmit ads or suggestions to the person relating directly or indirectly to shopping and consumer electronics. Many variations on the above example are possible.

It should be noted that the techniques of the invention can be combined with other techniques. For example the techniques of the invention can be used in combination with the techniques for predicting interest described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 12 343 393 entitled SEMANTICS BASED INTERESTS IN COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS AND SYSTEMS which is hereby incorporated by references herein for all purposes.

It should also be noted that techniques for predicting interest are described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 12 343 392 entitled RATING BASED INTERESTS IN COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS AND SYSTEMS which is hereby incorporated by references herein for all purposes.

The various aspects features embodiments or implementations of the invention described above can be used alone or in various combinations. The many features and advantages of the present invention are apparent from the written description and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art the invention should not be limited to the exact construction and operation as illustrated and described. Hence all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to as falling within the scope of the invention.

