---

title: Method and system for detecting a relevant utterance in a voice session
abstract: A method and apparatus for detecting use of an utterance. A voice session including voice signals generated during a conversation between a first participant and a second participant is monitored by a speech analytics processor. The speech analytics processor detects the use of an utterance. A speech recognition processor channel selected from a pool of speech recognition processor channels and is coupled to the voice session. The speech recognition processor provided speech recognition services to a voice-enabled application. The speech recognition processor channel is then decoupled from the voice session. The speech analytics processor continues to monitor the conversation for subsequent use of the utterance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08548812&OS=08548812&RS=08548812
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08548812
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081222
---
The present invention relates generally to speech recognition processing and in particular to providing speech recognition processing in response to detection of an utterance.

A speech recognition processor uses a predefined grammar to detect words in speech. Speech recognition processors are frequently used as a front end to provide voice enabled command and control applications. A speech recognition processor detects a word match relatively quickly but the words that can be detected are limited to the words associated with the particular grammar. Speech recognition processors are typically not effective at or designed to detect a particular relevant word or utterance in an unbounded stream of largely irrelevant words or utterances spoken at a conventional speaking rate as might occur during a conversation between two or more participants. Rather a speech recognition processor typically requires a speaker to speak quite distinctly and with brief pauses between commands because the speech recognition processor is attempting to process each separate utterance as a command. In the context of a normal conversation coupling a speech recognition channel to the conversation would result in the speech recognition processor attempting to determine whether each spoken word matched a word in the predefined grammar and responding with error indicators or false positive results for each word that did not match. Speech recognition processors require significant memory and processing capabilities and in commercial settings are frequently implemented in stand alone devices that can handle speech processing requirements for a finite number of voice sessions concurrently.

Many speech enabled applications are front ends to customer service systems that offer full time availability and thus use dedicated speech recognition processors. For example many businesses now require a caller seeking customer service to interact with a voice enabled application that will ask for information such as an account number and zip code and in response provide information about the caller s account before allowing the caller to speak to a human. Telecommunications providers are beginning to develop on demand voice enabled applications that can be initiated by a participant in a conversation on an impromptu basis. For example a telecommunications provider may desire to provide a subscriber the ability at any time to request that a third party be invited to be joined to an existing call via a speech enabled application. Currently such an on demand voice enabled application would require that a speech recognition processor channel be dedicated to a voice session for the entire voice session. Because speech recognition processors are memory and processor intensive it may be impractical or cost prohibitive to simultaneously provide hundreds or even thousands of speech recognition processing channels during hundreds or thousands of voice sessions. Moreover because speech recognition processors are not designed to select a particular relevant word out of a stream of mainly irrelevant words occurring at a conventional speaking rate the speech recognition processor would attempt to match each irrelevant word during the conversation to a predefined grammar of commands. Since the majority of words spoken in the conversation would not match any commands in the predefined grammar the speech recognition processor would repeatedly respond with error indicators or false positive results for each word that did not match. Thus currently there are several problems with using speech recognition processors in on demand voice enabled applications.

Speech analytic processors in contrast to speech recognition processors are used to search for utterances such as words or other sounds in large quantities of recorded voice data. Speech analytic processors are not typically employed in real time applications. A speech analytic processor typically receives a recorded voice session as input and encodes the recorded voice session into a searchable file or database. The speech analytic processor or associated query module can then search for and detect designated sounds that may appear in the database. Speech analytics processors do not utilize a grammar and are capable of searching for any designated word phrase or sound once the database is generated and in response to a search request provide a time offset within the recorded voice session where such word phrase or sound was spoken. Speech analytics processors are extremely fast and because they are not designed to be used in a real time environment or recognize complicated grammars and they use significantly less processor and memory resources than a speech recognition processor.

To minimize costs associated with speech recognition processing it would be beneficial if a speech recognition processor could be selectively allocated to a voice session after a determination has been made that a participant in the voice session desires a voice enabled application rather than dedicate a speech recognition processor to the voice session that may not be used during the voice session. If a speech recognition processor could be allocated on an impromptu basis a relatively small pool of speech recognition processors could be used to support a relatively large number of voice sessions. It would be further beneficial if a speech analytics processor could be used to determine when a participant in a voice session desires an on demand speech enabled application because speech analytics processors require significantly less resources than speech recognition processors.

The present invention uses a speech analytics processor to monitor a conversation for the use of an utterance such as a hot word. Upon detection of the hot word a speech recognition processor begins monitoring the conversation for the use of a command associated with a voice enabled application. The speech recognition processor communicates with the voice enabled application to provide the voice enabled application information associated with commands spoken by a participant in the conversation. After the participant is finished using the voice enabled application the speech analytics processor continues to monitor the conversation for use of the hot word and the speech recognition processor is decoupled from the conversation and is available for use by other voice sessions.

According to one embodiment of the invention a voice session is encoded in a media stream comprising voice signals of the participants of the conversation. A speech analytics processor monitors the voice signals for use of an utterance spoken by a participant in the conversation to invoke a speech enabled application. Upon detection of the utterance the voice session is coupled to one of a pool of speech recognition processor channels. After the voice enabled application is completed the speech recognition processor channel is decoupled from the voice session and returned to the pool of speech recognition processor channels. The present invention enables a relatively small pool of speech recognition processors to be used for a relatively large number of voice sessions that may require an on demand voice enabled application on an impromptu basis.

According to another embodiment of the invention a voice session carrying a conversation between first and second participants is provided to a media application server that provides one or more on demand voice enabled applications to the participants in the conversation. The voice session is monitored by a speech analytics processor running on the media application server. During the conversation the first participant desires to invite a third participant to the voice session. The first participant speaks a hot word the speech analytics processor detects the use of the hot word and the of speech analytics processor notifies a control system associated with the media application server thereof. The media application server is coupled to a speech recognition processor having a plurality of speech recognition processor channels. The media application server obtains a speech recognition processor channel from the pool of speech recognition processor channels and couples the speech recognition processor channel to the voice session. The voice enabled application provides the speech recognition processor a grammar for recognizing available commands that may be spoken by the participant. The speech recognition processor awaits a command spoken by the participant. Upon recognizing a command the speech recognition processor provides the speech enabled application the recognized command. The speech enabled application determines that the command relates to initiating a voice session to a third party and joining the call with the existing voice session. The speech enabled application initiates a call to the third party joins the call to the existing voice session and informs the control system that the speech recognition processor channel may be returned to the pool of speech recognition processor channels. The control system returns the speech recognition processor channel to the pool of speech recognition processor channels. The control system couples the voice session now having three participants to the speech analytics processor for monitoring for subsequent use of the hot word by one of the participants of the conversation.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The present invention relates to selective use of a speech recognition processor. The present invention enables among other advantages providing on demand voice enabled applications that may be used on an impromptu basis without requiring that a relatively expensive and processor intensive speech recognition processing channel be allocated to a conversation during the entire duration of the conversation. Through the use of the present invention a relatively small pool of speech recognition processing channels can be used to support a relatively large number of voice sessions reducing both capital equipment expenditures and licensing fees associated with speech recognition processing channels and providing a participant in a conversation the ability to invoke the on demand voice enabled application while speaking at a conventional speaking rate.

The telecommunications devices are capable of providing one or more voice sessions to the MAS for desired processing. The MAS includes a voice enabled application that may provide functionality to a participant during a voice session . The voice enabled application may be an on demand application. For example the voice enabled application may not provide functionality until called upon by a participant to do so. After being initiated or otherwise notified by a participant that the participant desires a service from the voice enabled application the voice enabled application interacts with a speech recognition processor to enable the participant to interact with the voice enabled application via speech commands. The speech recognition processor provides speech recognition services to one or more voice enabled applications via speech recognition channels A D one of which is allocated to a respective voice enabled application as needed.

Speech recognition processors such as the speech recognition processor are processor and memory intensive devices that utilize a defined grammar having a finite vocabulary of commands and attempt to detect the use of a command in speech in real time. Speech recognition is a specialized technology that is frequently provided to a business by a third party that specializes in speech recognition technology. In a commercial environment speech recognition processors are typically dedicated servers that work in conjunction with a specific application to provide an integrated voice enabled application or that provide a finite number of speech recognition channels for use however the business desires. Speech recognition processors are frequently licensed for use on a per channel basis and in practice licensing fees and equipment investment necessary to provide a speech recognition channel for a large number of voice sessions is cost prohibitive. Moreover speech recognition processors specialize in recognizing a finite number of commands and are significantly more accurate in detecting the use of a command when words are spoken slowly distinctly and with pauses between each word. Using a speech recognition processor to detect a single word or utterance in a stream of words would cause the speech recognition processor to attempt to match each separate word or utterance to the predefined grammar and repeatedly respond with error indicators or false positive results for each word or utterance that did not match the predefined grammar.

The MAS also includes an embedded speech analytics processor . By embedded it is intended that the speech analytics processor can execute on the same processor as other applications in the MAS . Alternately the speech analytics processor can be executed on a separate device and be coupled to the MAS via a network. Speech analytic processors are designed to find occurrences of designated utterances such as words phrases or other sounds in large quantities of voice data. The process of speech analytics is sometimes referred to as data mining and can be used for example by a government agency to determine if certain words were spoken during for example any international call that was placed on a particular day. A speech analytics processor typically receives voice signals associated with a conversation as input and encodes the voice signals into a searchable database or file. A query module can then be used to determine whether one or more words or phrases are present in the searchable database. One particular example of speech analytics software is provided by Nexidia Inc. 3565 Piedmont Road NE Building Two Suite 400 Atlanta Ga. 30305 and its white paper entitled 2007 and the references cited therein wherein the white paper and cited references are each incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Generally the Nexidia speech analytics processor encodes voice signals as phonemes and creates a phoneme based index of the conversation. A query including a query term comprising one or more words is entered the query term is similarly encoded as phonemes and the phoneme based index is used to determine if the query term is present in the searchable database. If so the speech analytics processor can return a time offset indicating where in the voice signals the query term is present.

Unlike a speech recognition processor a speech analytics processor is not designed to work with a complex grammar or react to a predetermined number of commands in real time. Consequently speech analytics processors use significantly less processor and memory than a speech recognition processor. However speech analytics processors are very good at finding a particular utterance in a recorded conversation spoken at a conventional speaking rate. The present invention uses a speech analytics processor to monitor a conversation and detect an utterance such as a hot word in a near real time time frame. The drawings and examples provided herein will refer to the utterance as a hot word but those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to detecting a hot word and can be used to detect any utterance whether it be a word a combination of words or other sounds. The present invention interfaces with the speech analytics processor and provides the speech analytics processor segments of speech as they are generated by the participants in the conversation. The precise method for providing the speech analytics processor can vary depending on the particular speech analytics processor used but according to one embodiment of the invention the speech analytics processor provides an application programming interface API that can be called by the control system to provide segments of speech to the speech analytics processor .

The speech analytics processor processes the speech segments and determines whether the hot word is located in the speech segment. Upon detection of the hot word the speech analytics processor notifies the control system which in turn interacts with the voice enabled application . A speech recognition channel is obtained from a pool of the speech recognition channels A D and is coupled to the respective voice session in which the hot word was detected. The speech recognition processor provides voice recognition services to the voice enabled application . After the voice enabled application has provided the desired function to the participants the speech recognition channel is returned to the pool of speech recognition channels A D. The voice session continues to be monitored for subsequent use of the hot word by the speech analytics processor .

Assume that the participant B asks the participant A for a date of completion of a project. The participant A responds to the participant B indicating that the participant A cannot provide a completion date however another individual would be able to provide a completion date. The participant B suggests to the participant A that they attempt to initiate a telephone call with the individual and conference the individual into the existing voice session A. The participant B speaks the desired hot word for example personal agent. The speech analytics processor in conjunction with the control system is continually monitoring the voice session A encoding the voice signals into encoded segments of a predetermined size and searching the encoded segments for an occurrence of the hot word. The speech analytics processor detects the use of the hot word in the media stream step . The speech analytics processor indicates to the control system that the hot word was detected associated with the voice session A step . The control system decouples the voice session A from the speech analytics processor step .

The control system interfaces with the speech recognition processor to obtain a speech recognition channel from the pool of speech recognition channels A D. The control system couples the speech recognition channel to the voice session A step . The control system also initiates the voice enabled application which provides a grammar to the speech recognition processor for use by the participants A B step . Alternately the voice enabled application may be initiated at the initial establishment of the voice session A and upon initiation may provide the predetermined hot word to the control system for monitoring. The participant B is prompted for a command. The participant B speaks a predetermined command that is recognized by the speech recognition processor and is passed to the voice enabled application which in turn initiates a call to the individual. The voice enabled application upon reaching the individual joins the call to the voice session A step . The voice enabled application indicates to the control system that the voice enabled application is finished. The control system decouples the voice session A from the speech recognition channel step . The control system re couples the speech analytics processor to the voice session A for continued monitoring of the conversation for subsequent use of the hot word by one of the participants step .

The present invention thus provides a mechanism for sharing a relatively small number of speech recognition processing channels among a relatively large number of voice sessions to provide speech enabled applications for each voice session. The present invention reduces capital equipment costs and licensing fees associated with the commercial use of speech recognition processors.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

