---

title: Systems, methods, and software for automated design and manufacturing of HVAC control panels
abstract: The present inventors devised, among other things, systems, methods, and software that radically simplify and reduce the time necessary to specify, design, manufacture, and document control panels and wiring harnesses for semi-custom and custom equipment, such as HVAC equipment. One exemplary system includes a computerized product configuration module that defines product family parameters from user input and outputs a product family data structure, for example, a coded character string, to a technical design module. The technical design module, which incorporates engineering design rules for control panels and wiring modules, automatically processes the coded character string, outputting detailed engineering drawings, component listings, and even assembly instructions to robotic manufacturing equipment. The exemplary system dramatic reduces the product specification and engineering time required for any custom control panel and makes it possible for OEMs to efficiently offering more options and shorter turn-around times to its customers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08000832&OS=08000832&RS=08000832
owner: Design Ready Controls, Inc.
number: 08000832
owner_city: Rockford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080806
---
The present application claim priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 963 747 which was filed on Aug. 6 2007. This application is incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of this patent document contains material subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever. The following notice applies to this document Copyright 2007 Design Ready Controls Inc.

Various embodiments of the present invention concern automated design and manufacture of equipment control panels such as control panels for heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC equipment. Some embodiments also concern control panels and other subassemblies such as wiring harnesses for the design and manufacture of pumps large compressors conveyors packaging and air handling equipment.

Equipment such as HVAC equipment is manufactured by Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs which have a variety of customers with differing needs. To meet these needs efficiently OEMs develop semi custom product lines or product families for particular market segments. Customers then select among various lists of parameters configurations and options of the product family to order semi customized equipment in much the same way as automobile buyers customize their automobiles by choosing among available options.

For example an HVAC equipment customer might choose among parameters such as cooling capacities and electrical supply voltages and among configurations such as numbers and sizes of supply and exhaust fans. By selecting particular parameters configurations and options the customer is ultimately choosing a single product from thousands or even millions of unique possibilities.

Once the HVAC customer has committed to its selections by placing an order an HVAC OEM typically completes the order using an ETO Engineer To Order process. Specifically this process entails passing the order to a team of engineers who study the selections and adapt or customize a generic electrical and mechanical design to incorporate the customer selections. Among other things this customization effort frequently requires redesigning the electrical control panel of the HVAC equipment.

However one problem recognized by the current inventors is that conventional control panel redesign is particularly time consuming and expensive because the control panel functions as the brains of the HVAC equipment and includes hundreds of interconnected components. This added time and expense places significant pressure on OEMs to limit the range of options they offer customers in a market where many customers are actually wanting more options and lower pricing.

Moreover because of this timing and pricing pressure many OEMs have sought to shorten the conventional design and manufacture process by skipping steps such as fully documenting their control panel designs with accurate as built drawings. However the lack of these drawings creates the further problem of making it difficult to service and troubleshoot HVAC equipment after installation.

Accordingly the present inventors have identified a need for better ways of designing and manufacturing OEM equipment generally and HVAC control panels particularly.

To address this and or other needs the present inventors devised among other things systems methods and software that radically simplify and reduce the time necessary to specify design manufacture and document control panels for semi custom or even fully custom OEM equipment such as control panels and wiring harnesses for HVAC equipment. One exemplary computerized system includes a product configuration module a technical design module and a manufacturing module.

In operation the product configuration module receives user input about product family parameters through a specialized configuration interface and outputs a product family data structure for example a coded character string analogous to human DNA to the technical design module. The technical design module which incorporates engineering design rules automatically processes the coded character string outputting true as built engineering drawings component listings wiring listings and even assembly instructions for robotic manufacturing equipment. The manufacturing module receives output of the technical design module generates and orders parts using an enterprise resource planning system and communicates assembly instructions to robotic manufacturing equipment.

The exemplary system dramatically reduces the product specification and engineering time required for any custom control panel and makes it possible for OEMs to efficiently offer more options and shorter turn around times to its customers and thus enjoy a significant competitive advantage.

This description which incorporates the Figures and the claims describes one or more specific embodiments of an invention. These embodiments offered not to limit but only to exemplify and teach the invention are shown and described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to implement or practice the invention. Thus where appropriate to avoid obscuring the invention the description may omit certain information known to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary system and method embody a unique approach to the design and manufacture of control panels for custom OEM original equipment manufacturer products particularly custom HVAC equipment. Conventionally OEMs develop and offer families of products that address particular market segments. For example OEM s that produce HVAC equipment typically offer a family or range of products. Within a product family OEM customers choose from a relatively large number of options. Within each product family millions of permutations or potentially unique option combinations are generally possible. Because of this variability in product configuration each OEM product ordered is considered to be at least somewhat unique or custom in terms of content and design.

Development of the controls subsystem or control panel for the product family follows the same process specifically steps 2 6.

The exemplary control panel design and manufacturing system streamlines the upfront development of control panels for such OEM product families steps 2 3 and 4 automates the ETO process step 5 and provides the manufacturing information and reports necessary for the just in time mass production of custom controls panels for OEM products step 6 .

Processor module includes one or more processors processing circuits or controllers. In the exemplary embodiment processor module takes any convenient or desirable form. Coupled to processor module is memory .

Memory module which takes the exemplary form of one or more electronic magnetic or optical data storage devices stores automated panel expert APE design and manufacturing module .

Module which includes machine readable and or executable instruction sets and related data includes a general product specification module a product definition data structure technical specification module manufacturing support module and associated graphical user interfaces .

General product control panel specification or configuration module includes instruction sets and data for producing one or portions of graphical user interface GUI accepting user input related to attributes of an HVAC system and defining and outputting general product specification data structure DNA based on the selected attributes or on imported attributes or requirements. In the exemplary embodiment general product specification data structure takes the form of an encoded text string which is validated based on options compatibility rules. DNA is output to technical specification module .

Technical specification module decodes DNA into various fields or segments. These segments are used in automatically selecting components and defining mechanical and electrical schematics for a product such as an HVAC control panel using design rules and macros for computer aided design tools.

Manufacturing module which receives the mechanical and electrical schematics includes instructions sets and data for not only defining one or more portions of GUI such as ECAD interfaces but also defining wiring lists mechanical layouts ERP order administration etc.

In addition to workstation system includes ERP system and manufacturing complex both of which interface with manufacturing module to facilitate just in time mass production of HVAC control panels and associated wiring harnesses.

The exemplary method begins at block which entails receiving input defining a set of product options. In the exemplary embodiment this entails displaying a product definition or configuration interface portion of GUI which lists a variety product selection option. shows an exemplary configuration interface .

Configuration interface includes a product line listing region a feature listing region and a corresponding feature definition region . Product line listing region lists one or more selectable product lines. Feature listing region lists a set of features or attributes such as voltage phase frequency attributes which associated with the active or selected product line within region . Feature definition region includes a set of feature definition regions such as pull down menu which corresponds to the voltage phase frequency attributes . Pull down menu lists selectable options. Execution continues at block .

Block entails defining an equipment data structure based on the selected product options. In the exemplary embodiment this entails defining a DNA data structure in the form of a coded text string based on the selections made using configuration interface portion of GUI or interface .

In defining the DNA structure based on the selected options the exemplary embodiment uses a translation data structure or table. shows an exemplary translation data structure which is stored in memory of the exemplary system. Translation data structure includes options code strings and lookup codes . In the exemplary system one or more of the user selections for the configuration menu is calculated based on other selected parameters or selected from a lookup table using a lookup coding scheme that either addresses a predetermined value or a formula for determining a value. In the exemplary embodiment DNA coding table implemented as a spreadsheet or database is also used to define the content and sequencing of menus and menu listings in the configuration interface. Thus changing the position of the model number options within the spreadsheet changes its position within interface . An exemplary control panel DNA data structure follows 

The exemplary method also entails validating the DNA data structure using validation rules specifically ensuring that the selected options presented in the DNA data structure are compatible based on options rules. Some embodiments perform validation during general product specification on a selection by selection basis alerting the user whenever a given selection is incompatible with a prior selection or alternatively narrowing the available feature space as the user moves through the configuration interface.

Block entails automatically generating technical design data structures and documentation based on the defined and validated equipment data structure which is representative of the general product specification. In the exemplary embodiment this generally entails defining a parts lists based on the DNA data structure generating electrical and mechanical schematics based on ECAD macros for the parts and related macro attributes logically associated with parts and one or more portions of the DNA data structure such as model number or product line.

Block entails automatically manufacturing a piece of equipment in this case a control panel based on the technical design data structures. In the exemplary embodiment manufacturing entails defining wiring lists mechanical layouts etc. and communicating relative instructions sets to one or more automated or robotic manufacturing devices such as wiring machine laser cutter or milling machine to complete the desired control panel. Additionally automated testing is performed.

Further structural and operational details are described below in relation to an exemplary software architecture.

In operation the exemplary method starts with presenting a design ready list of common technical options EDB PROGRAM OPTIONS found within an OEM industry such as HVAC pump large compressor conveyor packaging or air handling etc. For example an HVAC OEM can select options for a range of supply fans based on horsepower. shows respective graphical user interfaces and for selecting options. 

By choosing from this list of options and limiting the available selections within each option the OEM can use the exemplary system to quickly define and generate the general engineering specifications for a product family Step 2 in Overview . In the exemplary embodiment the OEM can further develop the engineering product family specifications by adding to this list any additional options that may be unique to its offering.

Because the system helps reduce the time and cost of upfront product development Step 3 and ETO step 5 OEMs are often able to economically expand the number and variety of product family options EDB PROGRAM OPTIONS 2021 . Once a set of options is defined the system defines a DNA code string or data structure analogous to DNA in that effectively captures the customized order from the OEM s customers.

More specifically in the exemplary embodiment an APE CONFIG DLL module reads the original engineering specifications from an OPTIONS DATABASE and automatically defines a Control Panel DNA data structure for the product family.

To capture an order the exemplary system configures the EDB PROGRAM OPTIONS preselected by an OEM into a dynamic GUI interface list such as GUI in This GUI is used for manually configuring orders Step 4 through the selection of control panel options ORDER CONFIGURATION ORDER CONFIGURED MANUALLY . Selection listed in the GUI are populated from an EDB program options database . shows that the EDB program options database can take the form of an Excel spreadsheet however some embodiments use a SQL database format.

The EDB program options database contains the list of options or parameters that are used to define translation table in which as noted earlier to translate selected equipment options into the DNA code string for a control panel. Some of these options are displayed dynamically through the configuration interface in when someone configures a control panel. These are the options highlighted in yellow in . The ones highlighted in orange tan are calculated on the fly or using lookup tables kept in other Microsoft Excel spreadsheet files. In many cases the user need not be prompted. For example the exemplary embodiment calculates amperage if we prompt for voltage and horsepower. In this case the DNA strand will show horsepower voltage and amperage even though we only prompted the user for horsepower and voltage. All of the parameters are used to complete the fields in the DNA strands. EDB files are fully customizable for each individual customer s control panel requirements

The exemplary system offers a unique link between how a customer views requirements and how these requirements translate into a set of engineering specifications in the form of a PANEL DNA CODE STRING. For example a customer may view a requirement as the need for an HVAC system for a 25 000 sq. ft. warehouse and the exemplary system ultimately translates this into an engineering requirement of an HVAC system having 4 units of a specified capacity with each unit having 5 hp supply fans.

The exemplary system presents options to a customer in a menu using customer friendly language and then uses RDB OPTIONS RULES within OPTIONS DATABASE to translate or map the customer requirements into the engineering requirements. For example the system can query a customer for the size of warehouse they need air conditioned and in response select an appropriate quantity and product recommendation based on model number. From the model number the exemplary system provides further rules to select more detailed engineering criteria such as supply fan horsepower etc. This automated translation from customer requirements to engineering specifications enables the OEM to quickly identify customer requirements and instantly provide customized engineering specifications including quotes and bills of material BOMs .

In exemplary embodiment APE CONFIG DLL used to map customer requirements and configure orders into Panel DNA code string can also be embedded or called directly from an OEM s internal order entry software as represented by CUSTOMER GENERATED PRODUCT DNA . The APE GUI interface can be hosted on a web server to define a WEB CONFIGURED ORDER allowing OEM customers to order products from anywhere via a wide or local area network.

To detect and allow correction of compatibility issues between selected options APE RULES.DLL reads the list of options selected within PANEL DNA CODE STRING and dynamically checks for errors and option incompatibilities using engineering rules within RDB OPTIONS RULES database to validate each potential order. DNA VALIDITY CHECK interface is used in concert with the ORDER CONFIGURATION interface to guide OEM sales personnel and their potential customers through the order configuration process. In some embodiments the APE RULES.DLL can also be used in concert with and be directly called from an OEM s internal order entry software tool. 

More specifically RDB OPTIONS RULES database includes a series of if then Boolean operations that point to fields in the PANEL DNA CODE STRING. For example if field one equals 30 which could stand for a model number pump control then perhaps field cannot be X Y or Z which could represent certain types of disconnects . Each rule violation points to an error message that can be dynamically displayed to the user as a DNA ERROR REPORT from the DNA VALIDITY CHECK interface . For example Error you cannot have a type X Y or Z disconnect in a model product. shows an exemplary DNA error report GUI with an error message region .

When APE RULES.DLL determines that all the rules in RDB OPTION RULES database have been met for a particular order defined by PANEL DNA CODE STRING it validates the DNA code string and clears the order now captured in the VALID DNA format for use with the automated ETO processing tools. shows an exemplary valid DNA GUI that is output in response to a validity confirmation.

These are the rules that are executed against a DNA code string. In some cases the rules describe DNA code compatibility and which options may or may not work with others. In this case they are used in the DNA error checking routines that validate a desired configuration or DNA code string. In other instances these rules are used to select and size components that go into a control panel. For example if the DNA code for hp 30 then a motor starter of a certain size from a particular vender will be selected. When we use the RDB format for such selections we sometime refer to the file as a DWEEEB database.

The upfront engineering of the controls for an OEM family of products typically involves creating the following 

A A series of general yet detailed electrical schematics that cover the options and basic controls functions necessary for the OEM product family.

B A complete list of all the components and parts that are potentially needed to complete the control panels for an entire OEM product family.

C A detailed scheme for the physical layout of the parts from step B for the family of control panels.

The exemplary process and software tools are designed to help streamline the upfront detailed design process Steps A B C and automate the ETO process. The exemplary system automates the process in such a way that the detailed design information from steps A B and C are captured MACRO OBJECT DR APE MASTER ENGINEERING PARTS DB and MACROS along with ETO engineering or decision making expertise DWEEEB database with electrical engineering and estimating brains DATABASE within the system. The system incorporates off the shelf 3D solid modeling applications SOLIDWORKS 3D LAYOUT for interference checking and the development of a layout scheme. Step C .

The detailed design process steps A B C is therefore streamlined to a standardized process of selecting appropriate generic macros and rules and augmenting them with any additional data necessary to complete the design of the controls for a family of products. Note ECAD macros are small schematic or layout drawings that can be picked placed and linked into complete schematic and layout drawings. Once populated with the detail design information and ETO rules the exemplary system completely automates the ETO process and produces as built schematics as built layouts BOMs and a host of manufacturing reports for each unique panel at the touch of a button SCHEMATICS LAYOUTS BOM LABELS WIRE LISTS MFG REPORTS .

In general terms the exemplary system captures the expertise and criteria used by ETO engineers and processes orders VALID DNA with this information. Instead of an engineer handing off marked up schematics to a drafter the exemplary system uses the APE GUI ECAD INTERFACE APE APE PROMISE DLL APE EPLAN DLL to create an ECAD instruction set PROMISE INSTRUCTION SET EPLAN INSTRUCTION SET that can be executed through the API application programming interface of standard off the shelf ECAD drafting packages APE PROMISE API APE EPLAN API . Through the APIs as built schematics and layouts can be generated with the touch of a button or via a single command or call from another application. The schematics and layouts are then efficiently checked for errors and completeness utilizing standard utilities available within the ECAD packages ECAD ENVIRONMENT .

The exemplary system includes a unique populated master parts database APE MASTER ENGINEERING PARTS DB that is associated with a unique set of macro information or MACRO OBJECT DATA BASE and a catalog of ECAD macros MACROS MACROS PLACEHOLDER .

Electrical CAD systems such as PromisE EPLAN or AutoCAD electric use the concept of Macros or sub drawings that can be quickly accessed to build up larger or complete schematics. In addition to the graphical representation each software vender allows data or attributes to be assigned to a macro. This information can include items such as part numbers of components wire numbers wire gauge wire colors harness designations schematic page and X Y location coordinates device IDs connection point labels wire terminations strip lengths wire lengths etc.

Conventional macros contain this type of attribute information on a product family basis. Thus conventional macro catalogs normally need to be recreated for each different product family or schematic and layout design. However the present inventors recognized the inefficiency of this approach and devised a unique MACRO OBJECT DATABASE that captures maintains and manages ECAD macro attribute information. This allows one to create truly generic catalogs of macros with generic placeholders for the attribute information for all off the shelf ECAD packages. These generic macros can be used repeatedly across various OEMs and across various product families as well as schematic and layout configurations. Once generic macros are placed information specific to the product family can be assigned to the macros from the MACRO OBJECT DATABASE.

The benefits and efficiencies of this unique approach are many. The need to redraw and manage macros used for specific product families is reduced. An original design manufacturer can share generic macros across product families and customers reducing upfront development costs. ECAD attribute data is managed independently from any specific ECAD software application thus allowing the ability to change an APE installation from one ECAD software vender to another. And by managing the attribute data within a sophisticated database utility such as the Microsoft SQL utility the data is much easier to maintain update and revise. And those that maintain this attribute data can do so directly without having to access or even know how to access the ECAD software applications again reducing engineering time resources and expertise required for implementing initial installations of the APE system or future engineering changes in a product family.

Associated with each part in the master library and with each macro is a set of rules DWEEEB DATABASE that describe what parts and what macros may be selected for any given VALID DNA code string. The rules include a series of if then Boolean operations which once satisfied point to a part PARTS SELECTOR to be included in the BOM or a macro MACRO SELECTOR to be included in the as built SCHEMATICS or LAYOUTS.

As the APE PROMISE DLL or APE EPLAN DLL processes each rule DWEEEB DATABASE against an order VALID DNA instruction sets for the picking and placing of macros and the assignment of parts PROMISE INSTRUCTION SET EPLAN INSTRUCTION SET and ECAD attributes are generated as input for the ECAD systems PROMISE APPLICATION EPLAN APPLICATION . Through the ECAD APIs APE PROMISE API APE EPLAN API the instruction sets are automatically executed and as built drawings BOMs and manufacturing reports SCHEMATICS LAYOUTS BOM LABELS WIRE LISTS MFG REPORTS are generated without the need for manual intervention ECAD INTERFACE . Results are verified within the ECAD ENVIRONMENT and then electronically sent to the appropriate manufacturing group ECAD INTERFACE .

As built manufacturing reports SCHEMATICS LAYOUTS BOM LABELS WIRE LISTS MFG REPORTS are archived PROCESSED JOB LIBRARY using the APE DB SYNC DLL and DB SYNC interface for future aftermarket and support access AFTER MARKET WEB INTERFACE REPLACEMENT PART PO .

The handling of macros is a notable aspect of the exemplary system. In contrast to conventional ECAD systems which bundle macros and macro attributes the exemplary embodiments effectively separates them storing product line specific macro attributes in a separate database that can be called by the ECAD APIs. The ECAD systems include the drawings macros for relevant components along with their conventional macro attributes however when ECAD APIs in the exemplary embodiment call for a particular macro from an ECAD program they also call for or retrieve a set of product line specific macro attributes from the macro attribute database DWEEEB in . The conventional macro attributes are ignored or overridden by the ECAD API according to the product line specific macro attributes. Thus in the exemplary embodiment ECAD macros can be paired with multiple sets of product specific macro attributes that effectively redefine the macro as necessary to facilitate the production of schematics and as built drawings for not only multiple product lines of a given OEM but also across the product lines of multiple OEMs.

The overall advantages to this system includes ETO turn around times measured in minutes versus days or even weeks fewer human touches and therefore fewer errors in the drafting process complete manufacturing and after market support specifications in the form of as built drawings BOMs and manufacturing reports SCHEMATICS LAYOUTS BOM LABELS WIRE LISTS MFG REPORTS and a system that continually improves through the iterative process of quality control.

Pricing information can optionally be added to the master parts list ERP PARTS INFO DB . Along with PARTS SELECTOR rules the exemplary system uses a QUOTING DLL and QUOTING PRICING TOOL GUI interface to calculate and display pricing information CONTROL PANEL BOM CONTROL PANEL QUOTE when the sales organization configures an order VALID DNA . This capability to generate instant quotes at the time an order is configured for custom control panels is another competitive advantage.

If control panels can be thought of as the brains and the OEM product as the body then harnesses that connect the brains to the body can be seen as the nervous system. For each potential control panel within an OEM product family there is a unique set of corresponding harnesses that are required to connect the control panel to the OEM product.

The exemplary system includes a harness parts and pricing rules database HDB HARNESS HDB COMPONENT PRICE that is processed HARNESSES GUI with the APE HRNS DLL to create both quotes EXT HARNESS QUOTE and manufacturing reports HRNS PROD FLOOR REPORT HRNS LABEL REPORT for the external harnesses. Harness production floor reports may include instruction sets for use with automated wire processing machines.

While most of the harness information can be captured in a design ready format the lengths of the harnesses are dependant on the size shape and electrical routing within the ordered OEM equipment. Through the exemplary system OEMs can choose to include this additional harness information CUSTOMER GENERATED EXTERNAL HARNESS INPUT FILE along with the control panel configuration VALID DNA HARNESS .

In addition to harnesses data a set of control panel wire information WDB WIRES can also be created for the product family. This set of data rules is used by the APE WIRE MACHINE DLL to compile a manufacturing wire report WIRE PRODUCTION FLOOR REPORT and a set of instructions for an automated wire process machine. The exemplary embodiment supports the Schleneger brand of wire machine SCHLENEGER INTERFACE SCHLENEGER INSTRUCTION SET but the system architecture allows that others such as Komax can added. The use of automated wire processing machines drastically reduces the time to cut strip label and terminate wires.

The exemplary system manages and synchronizes the databases used through out the specification detailed design ETO process and manufacturing process Steps 2 6 and future aftermarket activities. Through the PARTS DATABASE ENVIRONMENT and the DB SYNC GUI interface APE establishes industry libraries of design ready data manages historic production data and synchronizes information with internal supplier and customer order to remittance applications.

The exemplary system also helps differentiate and manage both commercial and engineering data for parts. On the commercial side the system recognizes a central ERP enterprise resource planning system as the source for current parts pricing and scheduling information M1 APPLICATION .

While the ERP system specializes in commercial information there is still a need to manage the engineering data such as part specifications mounting whole locations connection point specifications etc. In many cases the ECAD software applications have proprietary database utilities to manage this type of parts data. Similar to the MACRO OBJECT DATABASE the exemplary system employs a more generic APE ENGINEERING PARTS DB that can manage generic parts data across multiple product families customers vendors and ECAD software applications all while being seamlessly synchronized with an ERP system.

The exemplary system uses this information ERP PARTS INFO DATA to populate and refresh the design ready master libraries MACRO OBJECT DB ENGINEERING PARTS DB and DWEEEB DATABASE PARTS SELECTOR . Through the DB SYNC interface the APE DB SYNC DLL extracts information from the ERP system APE M1 API combines this information with the APE ENGINEERING PARTS DB and is makes all necessary data available and accessible by the ECAD ENVIRONMENT QUOTING TOOLS MFG REPORTS generation such as BOMs and aftermarket part selection utilities such as the AFTER MKT WEB INTERFACE.

As orders enter the ETO engineering process the orders are in parallel managed from a supplier and order to remittance perspective. Electronic communication from the exemplary system generates purchase orders Pos for components PART PO and automatically sends them to suppliers manages inventories XML ELECTRONIC SUPPLIER BOMS PICK LISTS and coordinates schedules MFG SCHEDULES MFG REPORTS between the manufacturing department and OEM customer.

As jobs are complete through the automated ETO process embodied within the system manufacturing reports SCHEMATICS LAYOUTS BOM LABELS WIRE LISTS MFG REPORTS and project data ECAD PROJECTS are stored in a PROCESSED JOB LIBRARY. This library can in turn be accessed through the DB SYNC interface for future reference. An additional web portal AFTER MKT WEB INTERFACE to this historic project data is available for aftermarket support and the generation of REPLACEMENT PART POs.

The exemplary system also assists in the final programming and testing of the panel before it leaves for the OEM customer. Once the panel is assembled the APE PLC LOAD AND TEST interface utilizes the APE MFG PLC DLL to download the correct controller instructions PLC LICENSE INSTRUCTION SET to the panels PLC programmable logic controller and then tests the panel to make sure it is functionally correctly PANEL TEST . Thus testing protocols or instructions are dynamically loaded to match the particulars of any given panel under test.

The exemplary system enables true custom design and manufacturing by providing for manual interface into the ECAD applications. Specifically the system can be used to define a semicustom product using the configuration interface to define a product DNA structure and develop a detailed technical design including ECAD schematics. The ECAD schematics can then be manually modified to include options not available in the configuration interface. Once the schematics are fully customized with these options they and related BOMs etc can be generated as with any product defined fully in the configuration interface. This customization process also applies to mechanical layout and enclosure dimensioning and design with the exception that 2D or 3D modeling software can be used to manually or automatically generate layouts and enclosure designs after determination of electrical schematics and BOMs. The system can process these technical design using its manufacturing and ERP automation as with semicustom designs.

The embodiments described above and in the claims are intended only to illustrate and teach one or more ways of practicing or implementing the present invention not to restrict its breadth or scope. The actual scope of the invention which embraces all ways of practicing or implementing the teachings of the invention is defined only by the issued claims and their equivalents.

