---

title: System and methods for multimedia “hot spot” enablement
abstract: A method for creating a multimedia presentation element, comprises selecting a presentation element icon; adding information to a presentation element box defined by a presentation boundary within a first multimedia element of the multi-media presentation having a plurality of multimedia elements, the presentation element boundary resulting from the selection of the presentation element icon; and associating the presentation element box with the first multimedia element such that the presentation element box remains associated to the first multimedia element during navigation from different multimedia elements of the plurality of multimedia elements, is described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639505&OS=09639505&RS=09639505
owner: EBAY, INC.
number: 09639505
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081231
---
This application claims priority and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 078 288 filed Jul. 3 2008 entitled Multi Media Online Presentation System and Method the entire disclosure which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to network based multimedia presentations and more particularly to a system and methods for multimedia hot spot enablement.

Multimedia is media and content that utilizes a combination of different content forms. The term is used in contrast to media that only utilizes traditional forms of printed or hand produced text and still graphics. In general multimedia includes a combination of text audio still images animation video and interactivity content forms. Multimedia is usually recorded and played displayed or accessed by information content processing devices such as computerized and electronic devices. Multimedia finds its application in various areas including but not limited to social marketing advertisement art education entertainment engineering medicine mathematics business scientific research and spatial temporal applications.

A variety of online websites are presently available to enable the creation and presentation including the publication of some form of multimedia. For example MixerCast enables a user to build a social marketing application from scratch. Scraplog enables a user to combine photos videos audio and text to create multimedia scrapbooks. Smilebox facilitates creative messaging that draws elements from photo services scrapbooking and ecards.

Each website will typically provide one or more online tools for the creation and customization of the multimedia. Such online tools and or desktop tools such as Photoshop Illustrator etc. allow the user to collect edit create and publish or distribute the multimedia. In this regard various style presentations may be utilized photos may be resized and text may be added video may be inserted and or links to other sites or presentations may be provided. Despite providing some level of customization the complexity of multimedia authoring tools currently available limit the self expression and creativity of the non professional user when creating multimedia presentations. Accordingly there exists a need for a relatively more robust easy to use multimedia creation tool including a system and method for multimedia hot spot enablement.

For purposes of summarizing the disclosure exemplary embodiments of systems and methods for multimedia hot spot enablement have been described herein.

In one embodiment a method for creating a multimedia presentation element comprises selecting a presentation element icon adding information to a presentation element box defined by a presentation boundary within a first multimedia element of the multi media presentation having a plurality of multimedia elements the presentation element boundary resulting from the selection of the presentation element icon and associating the presentation element box with the first multimedia element such that the presentation element box remains associated to the first multimedia element during navigation from different multimedia elements of the plurality of multimedia elements.

In another embodiment a system for creating a multimedia presentation element comprises a storage device a processing element having a processing program and access to the storage device a processing readable medium having executable instructions thereon to direct the processing system when used by the processing element to select a presentation element icon add information to a presentation element box defined by a presentation boundary within a first multimedia element of the multi media presentation having a plurality of multimedia elements the presentation element boundary resulting from the selection of the presentation element icon and associate the presentation element box with the first multimedia element such that the presentation element box remains associated to the first multimedia element during navigation from different multimedia elements of the plurality of multimedia elements.

In still another embodiment a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing a method comprises selecting a presentation element icon adding information to a presentation element box defined by a presentation boundary within a first multimedia element of the multi media presentation having a plurality of multimedia elements the presentation element boundary resulting from the selection of the presentation element icon and associating the presentation element box with the first multimedia element such that the presentation element box remains associated to the first multimedia element during navigation from different multimedia elements of the plurality of multimedia elements.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Exemplary embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating exemplary embodiments and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Embodiments of the present disclosure related to systems and methods for multimedia hot spot enablement within a multimedia presentation. As indicated above such multimedia presentations may find application in various areas including but not limited to social marketing advertisement art education entertainment engineering medicine mathematics business scientific research and spatial temporal applications.

In one embodiment a system and method provides for a robust end to end digital media creation architecture that enables a user to create rich multi media presentations and clips online with real time editing and authoring and then share or publish the media online. As shown in the system includes at least one client device e.g. network computing device one or more multi media distribution channels e.g. network server devices and at least one service provider device e.g. network server device in communication over the network .

In one embodiment the network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments the at least one client device the multi media distribution channels and the at least one service provider device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

In various embodiments the at least one client device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The client device may be implemented as a personal computing device e.g. a personal computer PC in communication with the network such as the Internet. In various other implementations the client device may be implemented as one or more wireless telephones e.g. cell phones personal digital assistants PDAs notebook computers and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices. It should be appreciated that the client device may be referred to as a user device or customer device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment the client device includes a user interface application that may be utilized by a user to conduct information transactions with the distribution channels and the service provider server over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented as a multi media presentation application to collect create and publish information via the network . In various implementations multi media presentations may be published to and or shared with one or more of the multi media channels via the user interface application over the network .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the multi media channels and the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network . In another example each member of the user group is able to access multi media websites via the one or more multi media channels to view collect and publish multi media presentations over the network .

In various embodiments the client device may include other applications as may be desired in one or more implementations to provide additional features available to the user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. In other examples these other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience. For example files data and or various types of information may be imported from multi media software directly into the user interface application for ease of access to multi media files e.g. audio video pictures clip art etc. .

The client device may include a user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the client device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include attributes related to the user such as personal information e.g. a user name password etc. . In one implementation the user identifier may be passed to the service provider server during publishing and or sharing of a multi media presentation.

In one embodiment the multi media distribution channels may be maintained by one or more resource providers and or entities e.g. social networking sites resource information sites management sites merchant sites etc. in communication with the network . In this regard the service provider server discussed below may maintain or provide access to the one or more of the multi media distribution channels. The multi media distribution channels may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one implementation the multi media distribution channels may be implemented as a network computing device e.g. a network server in wired and or wireless communication with the network .

In one embodiment the service provider server may be maintained by an online transaction processing provider and or entity in communication with the network . As such the service provider server may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one implementation the service provider server may be implemented as a network computing device e.g. a network server in wired and or wireless communication with the network .

As further shown in the service provider server includes a service interface application which may be adapted to interact with the client device to facilitate the collection of media as well as the creation including editing and the publishing and or sharing of multimedia presentations over a network. In one example the service provider server may be provided and implemented by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA.

The service application in one embodiment utilizes a collect module a create module and a publish module running on a standard web browser to collect information create presentations and publish presentations respectively. As described in greater detail herein the modules enable users such as the user to collect diverse types of audio and visual media create rich multi media presentations with real time editing and authoring using media software such as Flash and then share and or publish the rich multi media presentations with other users via the network . In one example the collect create and publish modules may be implemented within a standard web browser for interfacing with the user .

In one implementation the user is able to share multi media presentations with other users via the media channels and or embed multi media presentations directly in webpages of other users. For example the user may provide a unique URL link for the multi media presentation to other users. In another example the user may directly email multi media presentations to multiple recipients and include a message with the email. In still another example the user may provide the source HTML i.e. HyperText Markup Language code to other users and or embed the source HTML code directly into another user s webpage. Still other examples include the ability to publish multi media presentations on a website to sell a particular item or service for purchase. For items and or services a media rich presentation may help users market and sell items and or services which may be valuable for high end or high priced items and or services. Social and or dating sites may utilize these multi media presentations to provide online users with a way to better present themselves to other online users. In various implementations some type of webpage may be presented in a more dynamic manner by utilizing Rich Site Summary RSS feeds since for example a particular user s presentation may be continually changing with new media.

In various embodiments the service provider server may be configured to maintain store and or archive multi media presentations in a database each of which may include information related to one or more users such as the user and one or more multimedia channels such as multimedia distributions channels . In various examples the multimedia presentations may include attributes stored as part thereof and the attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a creating publishing and or sharing the multi media presentations.

Referring to in one embodiment the collect module enables the user to collect audio photographic images video and music media from various sources such as a PC RSS feeds websites and any other online source via a user interface such as the user interface application . In various implementations the user interface application comprises multiple tabs and or links for the various sources. Key words can be selected to search photos in Flickr or videos in YouTube. For example typing in flamingo and selecting Flickr results in pictures of flamingos or photos matching the word flamingo from Flickr being presented on the user s GUI or media page. The pictures can be edited into stacks if desired. For videos a desired video can be placed onto the user s media page by typing in the corresponding URL in YouTube. The system can then display the complete as well as a series of shorter video clips. The whole video or selected shorter clips as well as the photos can then be dragged and dropped into a storybook section to create a presentation from the media collected.

Once collected the media may be saved and categorized in the database and edited on the system site via the service provider server . Editing may include one or more of sizing rotating overlying moving and stacking various media backward and forward with an overlay or stack. Video may be broken up automatically by the service provider server into smaller segments. Selected video segments may be combined and or used as desired. Selected media may be placed on a virtual storyboard such as a clipboard on the same screen as the collection of media. Media may be edited either in the collection or in the storyboard. Placing desired media on the storyboard or clip board may be accomplished by dragging and dropping. In one example the collect module provides selected media on a storyboard. In another example the collect module provides media on a user s media page i.e. not placed on the storyboard . In still another example uploading media may be delayed until editing is completed.

In one embodiment the create module enables the user to place selected media onto a storyboard. The service provider server may automatically suggest a story idea to launch the creative process or the user may select a specific style or presentation tool. In one implementation media from the storyboard may be dragged and dropped onto the presentation. Within the presentation there may be multiple styles such as a picture frame a television a billboard etc. Media may be placed within the viewing window of each type of style. Once in the presentation the media may be edited. For example the media may be rotated sized cut out e.g. by selecting the boundaries of an image such as with clicks to designate points along the boundary enabling as coarse or fine a resolution as desired moved forward or backward in relation to adjacent media slide multiple images to add or remove spaces within the presentation and adding a hotspot e.g. selecting an area of the image for additional information such as adding a link video text etc. . Other editing features may include adding audio to the background adding text and or distorting images. In one aspect the editing may be achieved in real time so that the user may quickly and easily see the results and change them as needed.

Various tools or modules may be combined used and or modified to provide the user with different initial choices regarding the type of presentation and features desired for creating the multimedia presentation. For example as described blow the user may access a collage tool or application to create dynamic interactive panoramas with hot spots and layouts of photos video text and audio on an infinite stage. In one variation of collage the stage extends infinitely to the right and when viewed there is a natural progression from left to right that can map well to linear narrative time or space. In another variation the stage extends infinity downward. Again this presents a natural mapping to time space or narrative. The collage tool introduces a new creation platform for WYSIWYG online multimedia layout and sharing offering the ability to include direct links and presentations.

The collage presentation may be represented as a document with an infinite number of layers. Each layer has various attributes including position scale visual bounds associated annotations hotspots and a target media asset that may also have layer specific properties such as playback behaviors.

In one embodiment the publish module enables the user to share publish and or distribute the presentation when for example the presentation is completed. In one implementation as described herein the presentation may be saved in the database of the service provider server . Once saved the user may share publish and or distribute presentations to any selected channel such as one or more of the multi media channels . Any users on the network having access to the channels or website related to the channels may refresh the view which may automatically load the presentation into that channel and or website for viewing the content of the presentation. As such the presentations may be distributed to various online websites blogs mobile video players and IP TV networks and or on the system site.

The collect create and publish modules may be combined used and or modified to provide the user with different initial choices regarding the type of presentation and features desired for creating the multimedia presentation. The choices may be a simple easy to use tool to quickly build presentations with dynamic content from RSS feeds and online albums. Accordingly the user may select a presentation style and then link it to the user s media libraries through RSS feeds that maintain an always on permalink to the content source.

As indicated above and shown in the user may add hot spot s to the media piece. A hot spot is generally considered as a defined area with a presentation used to bring editorial attention and richer media to the presentation. In this regard a stand alone hot spot module or a hot spot sub module within the Create module of the multi media online presentation system described herein may be accessed to create the hot spot . Such a module or sub module may be embodied in a computer readable medium as executable instructions that can be used to direct a processing program when used by a computer system as described below. As still further indicated above the hot spot module in the creation of the hot spot may be considered as an additional layer added to the multi layer approach of creating an online multi media presentation.

As shown in to add a hotspot a desired first multimedia element or image hydrant is selected as well as a presentation element icon or hot spot icon . In this regard in a collage presentation for example a plurality of multimedia elements are arranged and presented to allow a viewer to navigate among the different multimedia elements. After selection of the hot spot icon the user is then presented with a presentation element boundary or hot spot boundary that defines a presentation element area or hot spot area . The hot spot boundary or area defined by the boundary can be positioned and resized anywhere within the multimedia presentation . Information may be added to a hot spot title to identify the hot spot area . More detailed information may be added to a hot spot box within the hot spot area by selecting the add details information icon .

 Hot spots may be further used to add media details to the hot spot area including multimedia audio and or video link to a sale item or even link to an external website or web page as further shown in the add details portion of the hot spot . The user may utilize one or more hot spots within a single presentation . In the example shown in each hot spot is represented by a plus sign. Other symbols may be used to represent or identify the hot spot including but not limited to a flashing dollar sign question mark etc. Each hot spot is associated with the multimedia presentation so that as the presentation is moved for example navigated from left to right or right to left in a linear collage presentation the hot spot s moves correspondingly . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will understand the other navigation patterns such as up and down diagonal or circular are intended to support the use of the presentation elements or hot spots described herein.

Once created a hot spot may be identified by the title of the hot spot as a cursor is moved over a designated hot spot icon. Activating the hot spot by clicking in the hot spot area may link the user to addition the information or multimedia described above corresponding to the hot spot area. For example if an automobile is used as a media item within the collage storyboard a hot spot may link the user to additional information relating to the automobile such as price condition and terms or sale. Hot spots may be specific to one part or element of the item. In the automobile example the user may create a hot spot on the tire which when opened may give the viewer access and or information text video audio relating to the tire where to buy the tire etc. Other hot spots may link the user to music other audio clips or a separate media piece that was copied and then uploaded into the collage presentation.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure methods described herein are developed as a program language and embodied in a processing of computer readable medium as executable instructions that can be used to direct a processing program when used by the computer system . In this regard the computer system may perform specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from a computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

