---

title: Dynamic grouping of enterprise assets
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for dynamic grouping of enterprise assets. A management engine can receive a query to interrogate a set of enterprise resources, such as servers deployed on a network. A user can transmit a query to the management engine, including a specification of attributes by which to group targeted machines to include in the query. The query can include at least a simple group query and a pivoted group query. A simple group query can include an identifier as a simple group expression, and the target can include attributes to match with resources. A pivoted group query can include compound terms or attributes to be used to group resources in the query, such as resources having a parent/child relationship or other hierarchical relationship. The processes of construction of queries and aggregation of resources identified by those queries can all be integrated by the management engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918507&OS=08918507&RS=08918507
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08918507
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
This invention relates generally to network systems more particularly to systems and methods for managing networked systems.

Enterprise systems provide a technology platform to help organizations operate their business methods. Server resources are a valuable part of an enterprise system. The server resources typically include physical components as well as operating systems applications and anything else run on the physical components to help the enterprise system function. The more extensive the enterprise system the more server resources are required to execute and maintain the system. Clustering and grouping are methods used to run applications on several different server resources. This way if any of the servers fail the application is still accessible via the other server resources.

The more server resources there are in an enterprise system the more time consuming it is to update and maintain all of the groups or clusters present across the resources. In addition server resources are frequently upgraded to accommodate new technologies or replace old resources. Further server resources in a testing environment are frequently changed and restarted. New groups and clusters among the server resources need to be created upon any change to the resources. Manually creating groups across the resources is very tedious and time consuming especially if the enterprise system includes a large number of server resources.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and service portals and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed towards a system a method and an apparatus for monitoring and managing enterprise assets. The system the method and the apparatus allow for less burdensome and more efficient enterprise monitoring and management. The enterprise monitoring and management system allows a user to automatically aggregate interrogate and manage system resources across the system s entire resource inventory. The aggregation can be based on logical associations of the resources in the inventory based on type regardless of the whether the resource represents hardware software or services. The system allows a user to perform a search across the inventory to obtain group results with the queried parameters. The user can also perform compound searches wherein multiple parameters are matched across the complete inventory.

As shown in system includes a management system and enterprise platforms . The management system and enterprise platforms are coupled to a network . The network can be a combination of wide area and local area networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. The network can be configured to provide a communication channel between the management system and enterprise platforms . The network can implement a variety of network protocols to provide the communication channel such as Internet Protocol IP v4 v6 ATM SONET or other similar network protocols.

The enterprise platforms can be computing platforms configured to deliver or support the services and functionality of the enterprise system . The enterprise platforms can include various types of computing platforms such as servers personal computers personal mobile devices workstations virtual machines or other networked computing platforms. While illustrates several enterprise platforms the enterprise system can include any number of enterprise platforms .

Each of the enterprise platforms can implement one or more applications or processes to provide to integrate and to support the services and functionality of the enterprise system . The applications or processes can include electronic mail E mail server and client applications application servers network hosting applications content management applications financial services applications content delivery servers and applications and the like.

In the enterprise system the enterprise platforms applications and processes and the overall service provided by an enterprise platform make up the resources of the enterprise system . The combination of all the resources makes up the inventory of the resources for the enterprise system .

The management system is configured to manage the inventory of resources including the enterprise platforms applications and processes and overall services provided by an enterprise platform . To achieve this the management system can be configured to include a management tool . The management tool is configured to deliver management process to the enterprise system . The management processes can include adding and removing the enterprise platforms configuring the enterprise platforms monitoring the enterprise platforms upgrading and updating the enterprise platforms adding and removing the applications and processes configuring the applications and processes monitoring the applications and processes upgrading and updating the applications and processes managing the overall services provided by an enterprise platform and the like.

In embodiments to deliver the management processes the management tool can be configured to dynamically group the resources in the inventory . A group of resources consists of an association of resources based on a common attribute or attributes of the resources. The attributes can include a unique identifier of the resource a name of the resource a version of the resource an association of the resource parent resource grand parent resource child resource the type of the resource such as plugin type name or category platform server service etc. configuration of the resource a location or domain of the resource and traits of the resource such as measurements.

In embodiments in order to dynamically group resource and deliver the management process the management tool can be configured to support simplified queries. The simplified queries are configured to be a compact user friendly mechanism to request management process from the management tool . The simplified queries are constructed in a format familiar to users of the management tool and straightforward to manipulate.

In embodiments the simplified queries can include queries directed to the management process along with an identification of the resource or group of resources associated with the management process. In particular the simplified queries include two parts one or more expressions defining the management process and a target of the expression. The expressions can define management processes such as dynamically grouping starting stopping updating measuring and the like. The target can be a particular resource or group of resources and attributes of the resources.

In embodiments for grouping queries the management tool can be configured to support at least two types of expressions a simple group expression and a pivoted group expression. The simple group expression can be configured to produce one group associated with the target and populate that group with any resource that matches the target. The pivoted group expression can be configured to produce multiple groups associated with the target and populate the groups based on a membership rule of the target.

In embodiments for simple group queries the simple group expression can include an identifier as a simple group expression and the target can include one or more attributes to match with resources. For example in a simple group query a simple group expression can specify a simple query of resources and the attributes can include parent type and category and the target can specify a platform as the attribute to match to resources. In such an example the management tool can be configured to search the entire inventory and find any resources that have a parent which is also a platform. As such the management tool can be configured to create one group including all the found resources.

In embodiments for pivoted group queries the pivoted group expression can include an identifier as a pivoted group expression and the target can include one or more attributes on which to perform the pivoted grouping. The attributes of the target define both the subject of the multiple groups and the membership of resources for the groups. For example in a pivoted group query a pivoted group expression can specify a pivoted query and the target can specify resources parent and name. In such an example the management tool can be configured to search the entire inventory and find any resources that can be classified as a parent i.e. any resource that has a child . As such the management tool can be configured to create a group for each resource that can be classified as a parent and populate the group with resources that are children of the parent.

For both the simple group expression and pivoted group expression the management tool can be configured to assign a unique identifier to each group. The unique identifier can be utilized in the simplified queries to specify a particular group. Additionally the management tool can be configured to maintain a repository of created groups associated with the unique identifiers. As such when the management tool receives a simplified query identifying a unique group identifier the management tool can be configured to retrieve all resources associated with the group.

In embodiments the management tool can be configured to process multiple group queries together. The management tool can be configured to combine the multiple queries to perform an overall grouping process based on the combination of queries. The multiple group queries can be both simplified group queries and pivoted group queries.

In embodiments the management tool can be configured to receive request for a simplified query for a management process. The management tool can be configured to parse the simplified query to extract the query expression and target. Once extracted the management tool can be configured to match the query expression with a management process and network query for performing the process. The management tool can construct the network query with the extracted target and transmit the query to the resources in the inventory in order to perform the management process. The network query can be constructed in a network query language compatible with the resources receiving the network query regardless of the type or configuration of the resource.

Once the query is transmitted the management tool can be configured to receive a response from the inventory and extract the results of the management process. The management tool can be configured to process the results of the management process performed on the resources. In the case of group queries the management tool can be configured to populate the created groups with the results received from the inventory .

As shown in the management tool can comprise a management engine an application programming interface API a parser module a search engine a repository and a network interface . It should be readily obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that the modules can be implemented as software applications programmed in C C JAVA PHP etc. hardware components EEPROM application specific integrated circuit microprocessor etc. or combinations thereof.

The management engine can be configured to manage and interface with the other modules to provide the functionality of the the management tool as described above and further described herein below.

The management tool is configured to deliver management process to the enterprise system . The management processes can include adding and removing the enterprise platforms configuring the enterprise platforms monitoring the enterprise platforms upgrading and updating the enterprise platforms adding and removing the applications and processes configuring the applications and processes monitoring the applications and processes upgrading and updating the applications and processes managing the overall services provided by an enterprise platform and the like.

To initiate management the management tool can be configured to interact with a user . In particular the management engine can be configured to communicate with the user via API . API can be configured to generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by the management engine and to provide an interface for requesting management process and receiving results from the management processes.

In embodiments to deliver the management processes the management tool can be configured to dynamically group the resources in the inventory . The management tool can be configured to dynamically group the resources in response to a request group the resources. In particular the management engine can be configured to receive simplified queries for grouping via API .

In embodiments for grouping queries the management tool can be configured to support at least two types of expressions a simple group expression and a pivoted group expression. In order to process the queries the management engine can be configure to pass the queries to parser . Parser can be configured to extract the expression and the target from the query and pass the extracted expression and target back to management engine .

For example a simple group query can take the from of e.g. resource.parent.type.category Platform In this example the parser module can be configure to identify and extract resource.parent.type.category as the the expression and Platform as the target.

Once extracted the management tool can be configured to match the extracted expression with a management process. In particular management engine can be configured to maintain a repository . Repository can be configured to store a translation table . Translation table can include the various extracted expressions with the associated management process and network query to be utilized in communicating with the resources according to the management process.

To retrieve the network query the management engine can be configured to pass the expression to search engine . Search engine can be configured to search translation table to match the expression to an associated management process and network query. Search engine can be configured to return the results to management engine .

Once results are returned the management engine can be configured to combine the network query with the extracted target. Once combined the management engine can be configured to transmit the network query to the resources via network interface.

The management tool can be configured to receive a response from the inventory and extract the results of the management process. If available the management engine can be configured to receive the results from the repository if the repository contains the results. Otherwise the management engine can be configured receive the results via network interface . The management engine can be configured to process the results of the management process. The processing can include providing the results to the user via API .

In the case of group queries the management engine can be configured to create groups for the results and to populate the created groups with the results received from the inventory . The management engine can be configured to store the results in the repository .

For example in a simple group query a simple group query can take the from of e.g. resource.parent.type.category Platform . In such an example the management engine generates a network query to search the inventory for resources for any resources with a parent which is a platform. When the results are received the management engine can be configured to create one group labeled platform and populate the group with all the found resources.

For pivoted group queries the pivoted group query can take the form groupby e.g. groupby . In the query the groupby indicates a pivoted expression and identifies the target. In such an example the management engine can be configured to generate a network query to search the entire inventory and find all unique resouce.parent.name results. As such the management engine can be configured to create a group for each resource that can be classified as a parent and populate the group with resources that are children of the parent.

For groups the management engine can be configured to assign a unique identifier to each group. The unique identifier can be utilized in the simplified queries to specify a particular group. Additionally the management engine can be configured to maintain a repository of created groups associated with the unique identifiers. As such when the management engine receives a simplified query identifying a unique group identifier the management engine can be configured to retrieve all resources associated with the group by requesting search engine retrieve the resources matching the unique identifier with groups stored in groups list .

In embodiments the management engine can be configured to process multiple queries including multiple group queries together. The management engine can be configured to combine the multiple queries to perform an overall grouping process based on the combination of queries. The multiple group queries can be both simplified group queries and pivoted group queries. For the multiple group queries the management engine can be configured to process each query in order to provide a more narrowed grouping of the resources.

After translation in the management tool can transmit the network query to the resources in the inventory. In the management tool can receive the results of the network query from the inventory.

Once received in the management tool can generate groups based on the aggregate query. Then in the management tool can populate the groups with the results of the network query. In the process can end or return to any point and repeat.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making request for management processes can be a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity.

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defied in the following claims and their equivalents.

