---

title: Modified multilayered film
abstract: A composition for delivery of a molecule into a cell is provided. The composition includes a protein transduction domain that is conjugated to the molecule which is incorporated into a multilayered film. Preferably, the protein transduction domain is a cationic protein transduction domain. More preferably, the cationic protein transduction domain is nonaarginine, and the multilayered film includes polyelectrolyte multilayers. When the composition is presented to a cell, the multilayered film dissolves or erodes in physiological media, and the molecule is delivered into the cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08834918&OS=08834918&RS=08834918
owner: Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
number: 08834918
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080122
---
This invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 881 788 filed Jan. 22 2007.

This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH grants EB002746 CA073808 and GM044783. The United States government has certain rights in the invention.

The alternating layer by layer adsorption of positively and negatively charged polymers on surfaces is a convenient and versatile method for the fabrication of well defined nanostructured thin films. The stepwise nature of this process permits precise control over the compositions thicknesses and surface properties of multilayered assemblies fabricated from a wide variety of water soluble polymers. The ability to incorporate biologically active species such as peptides proteins and DNA into these assemblies without loss of biological function has made possible the development of catalytically and biologically active thin films membranes and microcapsules with potential applications in many areas of biology biotechnology and medicine Lynn 20062 269 273 .

Past work describing the incorporation of proteins into multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies has focused largely on naturally occurring that is wild type proteins. Manipulating the pH or ionic strength of polyelectrolyte protein or polypeptide solutions used during fabrication can influence the growth and structures of these films as well as the structure and function of incorporated proteins. One general limitation of this approach however is that assembly conditions and film properties are often dependent upon the magnitude and sign of the net charge isoelectric point and other physical properties of the native proteins or polyelectrolytes that are used. Model peptides rationally designed to contain high densities of cationic residues e.g. lysine or anionic residues e.g. glutamic acid can be used to facilitate the assembly of multilayered films using layer by layer procedures Li and Haynie 20045 1667 1670 .

This invention provides compositions for delivery of small molecules into cells. The small molecules delivered into cells may be various molecules including but not limited to nucleic acids drugs toxins carbohydrates metabolites peptides proteins or other molecules. The compositions include charged small molecule transduction domains that are conjugated to the molecules and incorporated into multilayered films. The multilayered films are capable of dissolving in physiological media.

The charged small molecule transduction domains may be cationic protein transduction domains. These domains may include cationic oligoaminoacid tails with lengths of between 2 and about 30 residues. The cationic protein transduction domains may include polyarginine. The polyarginine may be nonaarginine. The compositions of this invention may further include one or more linkers conjugated to the charged small molecule transduction domains.

The multilayered films may include polyelectrolyte multilayers. The multilayered films may include one or more anionic polymers. In one embodiment the anionic polymer may be sodium polystyrene sulfonate poly styrene sulfonate . In other embodiments the anionic polymer may be selected from the group consisting of sodium poly styrene sulfonate poly acrylic acid poly methacrylic acid and poly propylacrylic acid .

In some embodiments the molecules that are delivered into cells are preferably a peptide or a protein. In some embodiments the protein delivered into cells may be RNase A.

The compositions of the present invention may include at least one layer that is free of charged small molecule transduction domain conjugated molecule. In some embodiments the compositions may include films that comprise eight layers of polymer alternating with eight layers of the charged small molecule transduction domain conjugated molecule.

This invention provides methods for fabrication of multilayered assemblies. The methods include providing a substrate depositing at least one layer free of charged small molecule transduction domain on the substrate and depositing at least one layer comprising charged small molecule transduction domain conjugated to a molecule on the substrate wherein the layers are capable of dissolving in physiological media. In the methods the charged small molecule transduction domain may be a cationic protein transduction domain.

This invention provides methods which include contacting the compositions of the present invention with cells for times that are sufficient to allow the conjugated molecules to enter the cells.

The present invention provides methods for delivery of small molecules into cells. The methods include a providing a composition comprising a charged small molecule transduction domain conjugated to a molecule and a multilayered film comprising two or more layers wherein the multilayered film is capable of dissolving in physiological media wherein the charged small molecule transduction domain conjugated molecule is incorporated into at least one layer of the multilayered film and b contacting the composition with the cell for a time sufficient to allow the small molecule to enter the cell. In the methods the charged small molecule transduction domain may be a cationic protein transduction domain. The cationic protein transduction domains may include polyarginine. The polyarginine may be nonaarginine. In some embodiments of the methods at least one layer in the multilayered film comprises an anionic polymer. In some examples the anionic polymer may be selected from the group consisting of sodium poly styrene sulfonate poly acrylic acid poly methacrylic acid and poly propylacrylic acid .

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to certain preferred embodiments thereof and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Any alterations further modifications and applications of the principles of the invention as described herein are being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. In order to provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and the claims the following definitions are provided.

 Multilayered film refers to a film fabricated by depositing or adsorbing in a stepwise manner more than one layer of material. As understood by one of skill in the art this term is also synonymous with polyelectrolyte multilayer PEM . As would also be understood by one of skill in the art these terms are used generally to describe films fabricated in the manner described above and are not intended to imply anything specific about the internal structures or organization of the films.

 Nonamer refers to a molecule with nine residues. For example nonaarginine refers to nine residues of arginine Ror R9 nonalysine refers to nine residues of lysine Kor K9 .

 Small molecule transduction domain refers to a domain that can cross biological membranes efficiently independent of transporters or specific receptors and promote the delivery of molecules into cells. As used herein molecules include but are not limited to nucleic acids drugs toxins carbohydrates metabolites peptides proteins or other molecules. The small molecule transduction domain may be charged i.e. it may carry a net charge. The small molecule transduction domain may be a charged oligomeric sequence. A cationic small molecule transduction domain is a small molecule transduction domain that includes cationic residues and carries a net cationic charge. As used herein a small molecule transduction domain may be natural or non natural domain that when appended to or conjugated to a molecule promotes the internalization of the molecule by cells.

 Protein transduction domain PTD refers generally to oligomeric or polymeric species that can cross biological membranes efficiently independent of transporters or specific receptors and promote the delivery of molecules such as peptides or proteins into cells. A cationic protein transduction domain is a PTD that includes cationic residues and carries a net cationic charge. For example the HIV Tat transactivator protein may act as a protein transduction domain. PTD is used herein to describe natural or non natural sequences that when appended to or conjugated to a small molecule such as a peptide or a protein promote the internalization of the peptide or the protein by cells.

 Delivery of a molecule into a cell refers to the process through which a molecule is made available to and subsequently internalized by a cell. For example when a molecule is presented to a cell using the compositions and method of the present invention the molecule is delivered into the cell.

 Physiological media refers to media that surrounds a cell and for the purposes of this invention refers to cells both in vivo and in vitro. Physiological media may be media in which a cell is bathed.

This invention provides compositions that can be used for delivery of molecules into cells. The compositions include surfaces that can be designed to deliver materials into biological systems. Preferably these surfaces are thin films e.g. thin plastic films or variations thereof. More preferably these compositions are polyelectrolyte multilayers PEMs . In one preferred example the surfaces include a multilayered film. For practicing this invention these surfaces or multilayered films are easily dissolved upon contact with physiological media. Dissolving also refers to eroding disrupting or falling apart of the film.

This invention provides for the conjugation of a protein transduction domain to a molecule that one desires to deliver to or insert into a cell. Such molecules that are delivered to or inserted into cells may e.g. be proteins that are designed to perform desired biochemical or biological functions.

In one embodiment the protein transduction domain is a cationic protein transduction domain. Appending short cationic peptides or non natural cationic oligomers to proteins can facilitate their uptake by cells. For example the conjugation of nonaarginine R to fluorescently labeled RNase A dramatically increases the cellular internalization of RNase A without loss of ribonucleolytic activity. For the purposes of this invention the minimum length of a cationic peptide is two peptide residues. Various cationic PTDs can be used for practicing this invention e.g. oligomers using arginine lysine combinations of arginine and lysine or other natural or synthetic sequences composed of other charged groups.

The cationic PTDs of the present invention can include a different number of residues. The minimal number of resides is two. For example when the cationic transduction domain includes arginine residues the minimal number of arginine residues is two. In some embodiments the number of arginine residues is between two and about thirty. Preferably the number of arginine residues is nine i.e. nonaarginine Ror R9 . In addition to the biological activity endowed by cationic protein transduction domains the conjugation of PTDs such as Rto molecules such as proteins also provides a general and straightforward method for conferring cationic charge without compromising protein function. For example conjugation of Rto RNase A increases its adsorption onto negatively charged glass and silica substrates Fuchs and Raines 2005 14 1538 1544 . More than one protein transduction domain can be conjugated with a molecule that is to be delivered to or inserted into a cell.

Preferably the molecules that are delivered into cells are biomolecules including peptides proteins nucleic acids drugs toxins carbohydrates metabolites or other small molecules that are suitable for delivery into or insertion into a cell. The molecules can also be modified mutagenized or engineered with different properties.

One aspect this invention combines the incorporation of conjugated molecules into multilayered films and the use of protein transduction domains to deliver conjugated molecules into a cell. The surface localized release of the conjugated molecules promotes efficient internalization of the molecules by cells.

In one aspect the methods of this invention provide a general approach to facilitate incorporation of proteins into multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies using anionic polyelectrolytes. The cationic protein transduction domain conjugated molecule is incorporated into the layers of film. Such a composition that includes a multilayered assembly is presented to the desired cell or cells. Once the multilayered film is dissolved or eroded the molecule is delivered into or inserted into the cell or cells.

The composition of this invention may further include a molecular linker conjugated to the protein transduction domain. For example the linker can be directly attached to the cationic oligopeptide. Such molecular linkers could be used to conjugate other molecules for import into cells including non proteinaceous molecules carbohydrates secondary metabolites drugs toxic molecules etc.

This invention provides for the fabrication of multilayered assemblies that can be used for delivery of molecules into cells. Preferably the multilayered assemblies can be 10 1000 nm thick. More preferably the multilayered assemblies are about 80 nm thick. The multilayered assemblies may include different numbers of layers. In some embodiments the number of layers in the multilayered assemblies may range from 2 layers to about 200 layers. Preferably the number of layers in the multilayered assemblies is between 2 layers and 50 layers and more preferably the number of layers in the multilayered assemblies is between 5 layers and 15 layers. In one example the desired film thickness may be proportional to the desired concentration of the protein or molecule that is being delivered to the tissues or the cells.

The multilayered assemblies are preferably protein containing assemblies that make use of a cationic protein transduction domain conjugated to a functional protein. Such assemblies permit the efficient and spatially localized delivery of functional proteins to cells and could prove useful for the localized release of therapeutic proteins from the surfaces of objects coated with multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies.

In one embodiment the compositions of the present invention contemplate the use of different combinations of layers of different polymers. For example the multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies may include one or more bottom layers that are comprised of slow release material and one or more top layers that are comprised of fast release material to provide different e.g. two stage kinetics of release. In the multilayered assemblies it is possible to use combinations of layers that include more than one type of polymer and it is also possible to include more than one type of protein or molecule for delivery e.g. more than one type of protein drug nucleic acid or other desired molecule .

Multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies can be disrupted dissolved or eroded in a variety of ways e.g. upon changes in environmental pH ionic strength or other factors that change the nature of physical interactions in ionically crosslinked materials. Thus macroscopic objects coated with these materials can be used to mediate high levels of protein transduction in mammalian cells. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for delivery of a molecule into a cell comprising contacting a composition of this invention with the cell where the modified multilayered film is dissolved or eroded and where the molecule is delivered into the cell.

In one preferred embodiment the multilayered assemblies are fabricated using sodium polystyrene sulfonate SPS and bovine pancreatic ribonuclease RNase A conjugated to the cationic protein transduction domain nonaarginine R using an entirely aqueous layer by layer process. The conjugation of Rto RNase A permits the assembly of multilayered films under conditions that do not allow for the incorporation of the unmodified protein. Not intending to be bound by the following explanation or mechanism Rmay function as a cationic anchor and may serve to increase the strength of electrostatic interactions with SPS and facilitate layer by layer assembly. The RNase A R SPS films dissolve or erode rapidly in physiologically relevant media.

In one example this invention provides for methods that use conjugation of nonaarginine R to RNase A to facilitate the incorporation of RNase A into multilayered assemblies. Subsequently films fabricated using RNase A Rconjugates can be used to localize the delivery of RNase A to cells. For example it is possible to fabricate multilayered films using RNase A Rconjugates and a model anionic polymer sodium polystyrene sulfonate SPS . In one example of the invention Rfunctions as a cationic anchor that permits the incorporation of RNase A into films under conditions that do not allow for the incorporation of unmodified RNase A. Macroscopic objects coated with these ultrathin assemblies can be used to provide spatial control over the delivery of RNase A Rto mammalian cells. Thus the methods of this invention could be used to develop new tools and methods for the localized surface mediated spatially and temporally controlled delivery of therapeutic proteins to cells.

The compositions and methods of the present invention can be used for coating medical devices to introduce into cells and or tissues drugs therapeutics or other desired molecules. The compositions and methods may be used in coating disposables such as needles pipettes pipette tips tubes petri dishes and other labware and generally in areas related to localized protein delivery and drug delivery health care and development of localized therapies and other adjacent areas of biotechnology.

There are various advantages of this invention. First appending a cationic protein transduction domain to a functional protein facilitates film growth i.e. incorporation of protein into multilayered films under conditions for which native wild type protein cannot be used. This invention thus demonstrates and points generally toward development of new tools for the incorporation of proteins into thin films using layer by layer assembly techniques. Second these films erode in physiological media and the addition of a protein transduction domain to the protein makes it possible to spatially and or temporally mediate localized release of protein and promote the efficient uptake of protein from the surfaces of coated objects.

In certain embodiments of the present invention a variety of polyanions may be used as negatively charged components or layers in the films. Thus different longer or shorter release times may be obtained by varying the structure of the polyanionic species. For example polyanions useful for practicing the present invention may be either synthetic or natural degradable or nondegradable homopolymers or copolymers functionalized or non functionalized etc. or various combinations of the above polyanions and or other polyanions. Differences in the nature of the interactions of these polymers with a protein functionalized with a PTD or cationic oligomer can lead to differences in film growth stability and the release of protein. A non limiting list of exemplary polyanions useful for practicing the present invention includes poly acrylic acid poly methacrylic acid poly ethylacrylic acid poly propylacrylic acid hyaluronic acid poly L aspartic acid poly L glutamic acid dextran sulfate heparin carboxymethylcellulose alginate carrageenan poly styrene sulfonate cellulose sulfate poly methylene co guanidine poly vinylsulfate DNA RNA or chemically functionalized derivatives of these materials. Changes to the structure of the PTDs or charged oligomers e.g. different charges different length etc. can result in a change in the nature of the interactions of the functionalized protein and oppositely charged polyelectrolytes. In general shortening the number of charges can weaken interactions and result in less stable films that release more readily. Conversely lengthening the tag and thus increasing the number of charges can strengthen interactions and result in more stable films that erode and release more slowly.

The present invention contemplates the use of oligomers that behave as protein transduction domains where the oligomers have differing numbers of residues. With respect to the range of lengths i.e. number of residues it should be apparent to one of skill in the art that it would depend on the properties of the protein i.e. its size and charge as well as the structure of the polyanion. In some embodiments the present invention provides for the use of protein transduction domains ranging from 2 to 30 residues preferably between 5 and 15 and more preferably between 7 and 12 residues.

Appending a negatively charged net anionic oligomeric sequence and adjusting the length number of charges etc. can provide for practicing the present invention using cationic polymers. In some examples negatively charged oligomeric sequences can be useful in making the film and controlling film stability and protein release.

Non limiting examples of different types and structures of PTDs and related types of natural or synthetic protein transduction domains that can be used for practicing the present invention are described in the following references which are incorporated herein by reference Fuchs and Raines 200514 1538 1544 Fuchs and Raines 2006 63 1819 1822 Schwarze et al. 1999285 1569 1572 Mitchell 200056 318 325 Futaki et al. 2002276 5836 5840 Snyder and Dowdy 200421 389 393 Brooks et al. 200557 559 577 Fittipaldi and Giacca 200557 597 608 Nori and Kopecek 200557 609 636 Wadia and Dowdy 200557 579 596 Fuchs and Raines 200443 2438 2444 Ho et al. 200161 474 477 Wender et al. 200097 13003 13008.

It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular methodology protocols subjects or reagents described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is limited only by the claims. The following examples are offered to illustrate but not to limit the claimed invention.

Test grade n type silicon wafers were obtained from Si Tech Topsfield Mass. . Quartz microscope slides were purchased from Chemglass Vineland N.J. . Linear poly ethylene imine LPEI MW 25 000 was obtained from Polysciences Warrington Pa. . Poly sodium 4 styrenesulfonate SPS MW 70 000 was obtained from Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. . All commercial polyelectrolytes were used as received without further purification.

Hoechst 34580 and wheat germ agglutinin Alexa 594 fluorescent stains were purchased from Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Deionized water 18 M was used for washing steps and to prepare all polymer and protein solutions. PBS buffer was prepared by diluting commercially available concentrate EM Science Gibbstown N.J. . Glass inset dishes used for laser scanning confocal microscopy LSCM were purchased from MatTek Ashland Mass. .

Poly acrylic acid PAA MW 90 000 poly methacrylic acid PMAA MW 100 000 and poly propylacrylic acid PPAA MW 4200 were obtained from Polysciences Warrington Pa. .

All buffers and polymer solutions were filtered through a 0.2 m membrane syringe filter prior to use. Quartz and silicon substrates 3.5 0.5 cm were cleaned with acetone ethanol methanol and deionized water dried under a stream of filtered air and cleaned further by etching in an oxygen plasma Plasma Etch Carson City Nev. for 5 min prior to film deposition. UV vis absorbance values used to quantify film deposition on quartz substrates were recorded using a DU 520 UV vis Spectrophotometer Beckman Coulter Fullerton Calif. at a wavelength of 226 nm corresponding to the absorbance maximum of SPS in at least four different locations on each sample. The optical thicknesses of films deposited on silicon substrates were determined in at least five locations using a Gaertner LSE Stokes Ellipsometer 632.8 nm incident angle 70 . Data were processed using the Gaertner Ellipsometer Measurement Program software package. Relative thicknesses were calculated by assuming an average refractive index of 1.58 for the multilayered films.

Fluorescence measurements of solutions used to erode multilayered films were made using a Fluoromax 3 fluorimeter Jobin Yvon Edison N.J. at an excitation wavelength of 490 nm. The mean fluorescence emission intensity was determined from intensity values recorded from 514 520 nm. Laser scanning confocal microscopy was performed using a Bio Rad Radiance 2100 MP Rainbow Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope equipped with a multiphoton laser. Images were processed using the Bio Rad LaserSharp 2000 Processing Kit and Adobe Photoshop 8.0.

Fluorescein labeled RNase A and fluorescein labeled RNase A conjugated to Rwere prepared as described previously Fuchs and Raines 2005 . Untagged variants of RNase A were produced in and purified as described previously Haigis and Raines 2003116 313 324 . Variants of RNase A containing a C terminal Rtag were prepared by growing BL21 DE3 PlysS cells containing plasmid encoding the RNase A variant at 37 C. with shaking 250 rpm in Terrific Broth containing ampicillin 200 g mL and chloramphenicol 35 g mL to an optical density of 1.6 at 600 nm.

cDNA expression was induced by adding isopropyl D thiogalactopyranoside IPTG 1 mM . Cells were grown for an additional 4 h before harvesting. Cell pellets were resuspended in a lysis buffer of 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 containing ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA 1.0 mM NaCl 0.10 M and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride 1.0 mM and lysed by sonication. Inclusion bodies were isolated by centrifugation at 11 000 g for 45 min and solubilized in a denaturing solution of 20 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 containing guanidine hydrochloride 7.0 M and EDTA 10 mM for 4 h at room temperature. Solubilized inclusion bodies were diluted ten fold with acetic acid 20 mM and clarified by centrifugation. The supernatant was dialyzed overnight against the same buffer. The resulting protein was then folded overnight at 4 C. in a redox buffer of 0.1 M Tris HCl pH 8.0 containing EDTA 10 mM L arginine 0.5 M reduced glutathione 1 mM and oxidized glutathione 0.2 mM . Refolded protein was purified by cation exchange chromatography on a 5 mL column of HiTrap SP sepharose FF resin Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. in 50 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5.0 with a linear gradient 50 50 mL of NaCl 0 1.5 M . The identity of each variant was verified by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry.

Ribonucleases were labeled with fluorescein at one specific residue in a surface loop by using variants in which Ala19 was replaced with a cysteine residue Haigis and Raines 2003 . Film stability and release experiments relied on the fluorescence of the dianionic form of fluorescein. The second pKof fluorescein is 6.3 which is much less than the pH of PBS and is likely to be even lower in the proximity of a highly cationic protein such as RNase A.

A19C RNase A or A19C RNase A R 100 M were incubated in PBS containing a 20 fold molar excess of 5 iodoacetamidofluorescein Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. and a 3 fold molar excess of tris 2 carboxyethylphosphine hydrochloride TCEP for 4 h at room temperature. The resulting solution was dialyzed overnight against 50 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5.0 and then purified by cation exchange chromatography using a 5 mL HiTrap CM Sepharose Fast Flow column with a linear gradient 50 50 mL of NaCl 0 1.00 M for A19C RNase A 0 2.00 M for A19C RNase A R . Conjugation to the fluorophore was confirmed by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry.

Solutions of protein 7.0 M with respect to concentration of RNase A contained either fluorescein labeled RNase A RNase A or fluorescein labeled RNase A conjugated to nonaarginine RNase A R and were prepared by diluting a concentrated stock with water. The concentrations of protein in stock solutions were determined by using 9860 Mcmfor RNase A at 277 nm and correcting for the absorbance of the fluorescein moiety with the equation Abel et al. 2003306 100 107 5 

Solutions of LPEI and SPS used for the fabrication of LPEI SPS precursor layers 20 mM with respect to the molecular weight of the polymer repeat unit were prepared using a 50 mM NaCl solution in water. LPEI solutions contained 5 mM HCl to aid polymer solubility. SPS solutions used for the deposition of protein SPS layers 20 mM with respect to the polymer repeat unit were prepared in water and the pH was adjusted to 5.0 with HCl.

PAA PMAA and PPAA solutions used for the deposition of protein PAA PMAA or PPAA layers 1 mg mL were prepared in water while heating at 60 C.

All protein SPS films were deposited on quartz or silicon substrates precoated with 10 bilayers of linear poly ethylene imine and polystyrene sulfonate fabricated using a previously optimized procedure Jewell et al. 2005106 214 223 Fredin et al. 200521 5803 5811 . These precursor layers were deposited manually or by using an automated dipping robot Riegler Kirstein GmbH Potsdam Germany .

Multilayered films fabricated using RNase A and SPS were fabricated on these foundation layers manually using the following general protocol 1 Substrates were submerged in a solution of protein RNase A or RNase A R for 5 min 2 substrates were removed and immersed in a wash bath of deionized water for 1 min followed by a second wash bath for 1 min 3 substrates were submerged in a solution of SPS for 5 min and 4 substrates were rinsed in the manner described above. This cycle was repeated until the desired number of protein and SPS layers typically eight each had been deposited. To produce substrates coated with multilayered films on only one side commercially available rubber cement was applied to one face of the substrate and allowed to dry prior to dipping. Removal of the rubber cement by peeling after film fabrication yielded substrates coated with protein SPS films on a single side.

All protein PAA PMAA or PPAA films were deposited on quartz or silicon substrates precoated with 10 bilayers of linear poly ethylene imine and poly styrene sulfonate fabricated using a previously optimized procedure Jewell et al. 2005106 214 223 Fredin et al. 200521 5803 5811 . These precursor layers were deposited manually or by using an automated dipping robot Riegler Kirstein GmbH Potsdam Germany .

Multilayered films fabricated using RNase A and PAA PMAA or PPAA were fabricated on these foundation layers manually using the following general protocol 1 substrates were submerged in a solution of protein RNase A R9 for 5 min 2 substrates were removed and immersed in a wash bath of deionized water for 1 min followed by a second wash bath for 1 min 3 substrates were submerged in a solution of PAA PMAA or PPAA heated at 60 C. for 5 min and 4 substrates were rinsed in the manner described above. This cycle was repeated until the desired number of protein and PAA PMAA or PPAA layers typically eight each had been deposited.

Experiments designed to evaluate film stability and characterize the release of protein from multilayered films were performed in the following general manner film coated substrates were placed in a plastic UV transparent cuvette and phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 137 mM NaCl was added in an amount sufficient to cover the substrate. The samples were incubated at 37 C. and removed at predetermined intervals for analysis by ellipsometry for silicon substrates or UV visible spectrophotometry for quartz substrates .

Optical thickness and absorbance measurements were made in at least four different predetermined locations on each substrate. For experiments designed to monitor the concentrations of protein released into the buffer solution fluorescence readings at 514 520 nm corresponding to the maximum fluorescence emission range of fluorescein were made directly on the buffer solution. After each measurement substrates were placed in a fresh aliquot of PBS and returned to the incubator at 37 C. Measurement of the pH of the buffer at each time point indicated that pH did not change during the course of these experiments. Arbitrary fluorescence units arising from these experiments were converted to micrograms of protein released using a standard curve prepared using known concentrations of RNase A R.

COS 7 cells were grown in glass inset confocal microscopy dishes at initial seeding densities of 7.5 10cells mL in 3.0 mL of growth medium 90 v v Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium 10 v v fetal bovine serum 100 units mL penicillin 100 g mL streptomycin . Cells were allowed to grow overnight to approximately 90 confluence and growth medium was replaced with 3.0 mL of serum free culture medium OptiMEM . Quartz slides coated with multilayered films on one or both sides were placed manually into dishes on top of cells. In experiments involving slides coated on a single face the substrate was placed such that the film coated face was in direct contact with the cells. In both cases cells were incubated for 3 hr at 37 C. and analyzed directly without removal of the quartz slide using a Bio Rad Radiance 2100 MP Rainbow LSCM. Immediately prior to imaging cells were stained using wheat germ agglutinin WGA Alexa 594 membrane stain and Hoechst nuclear stain according to the manufacturer s protocols. LSCM images were acquired using a 60 1.40 NA oil immersion objective. Images were recorded for populations of cells growing either directly under the film coated substrates or in random remote locations of the culture well up to 2 mm away from the film coated substrates. Fluorescein Hoechst and WGA Alexa 594 probes were excited sequentially using laser lines at 488 543 and 800 nm multiphoton laser respectively. Fluorescence emission signals were collected for three individual channels using direct scanning mode N 1 scan speed 50 lps and merged to create three color images.

Proteins can be incorporated into ultrathin multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies using layer by layer fabrication procedures. Conjugation of nonaarginine R to RNase A leads to an increased affinity of this enzyme for glass and silica substrates. In one example of the present invention the inventors discovered that the conjugation of nine additional cationic arginine groups to RNase A 1 increases the strength of electrostatic interactions between RNase A and negatively charged polyelectrolytes and 2 provides a mechanism for the incorporation of RNase A into films under conditions that do not allow for incorporation of the unmodified protein Jewell et al. 20078 857 863 .

In addition conjugation of short cationic peptide sequences such as Rto proteins increases their uptake by cells Fuchs and Raines 200514 1538 1544 Fuchs and Raines 200663 1819 1822 . Therefore macroscopic objects coated with films fabricated using RNase A Rcan be used to localize the delivery of RNase A to mammalian cells.

Multilayered films were fabricated on planar quartz and silicon substrates to facilitate characterization of film growth and thickness by UV vis absorbance and ellipsometry respectively. For all experiments substrates were precoated with a thin multilayered film composed of LPEI and SPS approximately 30 nm thick with a topmost layer of SPS to provide a charged surface suitable for subsequent adsorption of RNase A or RNase A R. In all experiments RNase A and RNase A Rconjugates were labeled with fluorescein at residue 19 to facilitate the visualization and tracking of RNase A in subsequent cellular internalization studies described below see also Fuchs and Raines 2005 .

Fabrication of multilayered films was performed using an alternate dipping procedure. The iterative dipping of quartz substrates into RNase A R 7.0 M in water pH 5.0 and SPS 20 mM in water pH 5.0 resulted in the growth of multilayered RNase A R SPS films.

RNase A R SPS and RNase A SPS films were also fabricated on silicon substrates to characterize film growth and thickness using ellipsometry. As shown in films fabricated using RNase A Rincreased in optical thickness to yield films up to 80 nm thick after the deposition of eight bilayers. Although the overall growth profile for these films is linear closer inspection of these data reveals that the majority of the increase in the thicknesses of these films resulted from the deposition of the protein containing layers. On the basis of these ellipsometry data the average thickness of each protein SPS layer in these materials was calculated to be approximately 5.5 nm bilayer.

In contrast to films fabricated using RNase A R9 the optical thicknesses of films fabricated using solutions of RNase A that was not tagged with Rdid not increase significantly for up to eight deposition cycles under otherwise identical fabrication conditions. These differences in film growth profiles are consistent with the large differences in film growth observed by UV absorbance .

Taken together these experiments demonstrate 1 that RNase A conjugated to Rcan be incorporated effectively into multilayered films using SPS as an anionic film component and 2 that RNase A Rcan be incorporated into films under conditions e.g. 7 M in water pH 5.0 for which film growth does not occur using RNase A not tagged with R. These data indicate that the conjugation of Rfacilitates the growth of multilayered films under these conditions. Not attempting to be bound by the following mechanism this presumably occurs by increasing the strength of the electrostatic interactions between the more cationic protein and the anionic SPS. Nonaarginine may thus be viewed as a cationic anchor the conjugation of which permits the assembly of films under conditions that are not suitable for the assembly of films using native unmodified RNase A.

Fabrication of Films Using RNase A R9 and Poly Acrylic Acid Poly Methacrylic Acid or Poly Propylacrylic Acid 

Multilayered films were fabricated on planar quartz and silicon substrates to facilitate characterization of film growth and thickness by UV vis absorbance and ellipsometry respectively. For all experiments substrates were precoated with a thin multilayered film composed of LPEI and SPS approximately 30 nm thick with a topmost layer of SPS to provide a charged surface suitable for subsequent adsorption of RNase A R9. In all experiments RNase A R9 conjugates were labeled with fluorescein at residue 19 to facilitate the visualization and tracking of RNase A in subsequent cellular internalization studies described below see also Fuchs and Raines 2005 .

In this example fabrication of multilayered films was performed using an alternate dipping procedure. The iterative dipping of quartz or silicon substrates into RNase A R9 7.0 M in water pH 5 and PAA PMAA or PPAA 1 mg mL in water heated at 60 C. resulted in the growth of multilayered RNase A R9 PAA PMAA or PPAA films.

The stability of protein containing films in aqueous environments has been investigated with a view toward designing assemblies with properties tailored for specific applications. For example films and assemblies that are stable in aqueous environments have been used to design catalytically active membranes and microcapsules. In contrast films and assemblies that are unstable or that erode in physiologically relevant media could be useful for the controlled sustained or localized release of proteins. Thus multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies can be disrupted dissolved or eroded upon changes in environmental pH ionic strength or other factors that change the nature of physical interactions in ionically crosslinked materials. The inventors examined the stability of RNase A R SPS films in physiologically relevant media and determined that it was possible to use these materials for the sustained or localized delivery of RNase A from surfaces.

Quartz substrates coated with films fabricated using SPS and either RNase A Ror unmodified RNase A were incubated in phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 137 mM NaCl at 37 C. in UV transparent cuvettes. Substrates were removed at predetermined intervals and the fluorescence of the incubation buffer was recorded directly from 514 520 nm i.e. the maximum fluorescence emission range of fluorescein and used to calculate the amount of protein released.

It is possible to disrupt multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies by changing environmental parameters such as pH or ionic strength that change the nature of the ionic interactions in these ionically crosslinked assemblies. The RNase A R SPS films used herein were fabricated using protein and polymer solutions prepared in water but the release and stability experiments were conducted in phosphate buffered saline. Thus while the cationic oligopeptide Rdoes facilitate film assembly in water the electrostatic interactions in these assemblies may be effectively disrupted upon transfer to a medium of higher ionic strength.

The thickness of an RNase A R SPS film incubated in water as opposed to PBS did not decrease significantly for up to 200 h when incubated at 37 C. In combination with the results shown in this control experiment provided support for the view that the large changes in pH and ionic strength that are experienced upon transfer to PBS play a significant role in the rapid dissolution and release of RNase A Rfrom these materials. Objects coated with these materials can be used to exert spatial control over the release of protein and the internalization of protein by cells.

Films and assemblies that are stable in aqueous environments have been used to design catalytically active membranes and microcapsules. In contrast films and assemblies that are unstable or that erode in physiologically relevant media can be useful for the controlled sustained or localized release of proteins. Several groups have reported that multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies can be disrupted or eroded upon changes in environmental pH ionic strength or other factors that change the nature of physical interactions in these ionically crosslinked materials. The stability of RNase A R PAA PMAA or PPAA films in physiologically relevant media was determined to establish that it is possible to use these materials for the sustained or localized delivery of RNase A from surfaces.

Silicon substrates coated with films fabricated using PAA PMAA or PPAA and RNase A Rwere incubated in phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 137 mM NaCl at 37 C. in UV transparent cuvettes. Substrates were removed at predetermined intervals and the fluorescence of the incubation buffer was recorded directly from 514 520 nm i.e. the maximum fluorescence emission range of fluorescein . shows a plot of percent protein released versus time for films fabricated from eight bilayers of RNase A R SPS PAA PMAA or PPAA . Inspection of these data reveals significant differences in the behavior. Whereas approximately 90 95 of protein was released from the RNase A R9 SPS PAA and PMAA films within the first 20 h of incubation only 60 of the protein was released from the RNase A R9 PPAA film during the same incubation period. Further inspection of this profile revealed that protein was released from the RNase A R9 PPAA film for up to 300 h.

The conjugation of protein transduction domains such as Rto proteins increases dramatically their transport into cells. The inventors established that ultrathin multilayered RNase A R9 SPS films can be used to promote the surface mediated delivery of RNase A to cells i.e. protein transduction.

RNase A R SPS films composed of eight bilayers on planar quartz substrates were fabricated. Quartz substrates were used in these experiments to permit characterization of film growth using UV vis spectrophotometry e.g. and to permit the tracking of fluorescently labeled RNase A Rconjugates in cells using fluorescence microscopy. Film coated slides were placed in direct contact with COS 7 cells growing in a reduced serum cell culture medium e.g. and incubated in the presence of cells for 3 h. Cells were subsequently treated with fluorescent membrane and nuclear stains WGA Alexa 594 and Hoechst 34580 and imaged using LSCM without removal of the quartz slides.

Quartz slides were also coated on only a single face by obscuring one side of a slide with commercially available rubber cement prior to film fabrication. Removal of the rubber cement after film deposition resulted in quartz slides coated with an RNase A R SPS film on only one side. Slides prepared in this manner contained about 50 of the RNase A Rimmobilized on slides coated on both sides as determined by UV vis spectrophotometry. When these slides were placed face down on cells protein transduction was localized largely to cells growing directly beneath the films rather than cells growing in adjacent areas of the culture well e.g. versus D .

The results above demonstrate that films fabricated from RNase A Rand SPS dissolve rapidly when incubated in physiologically relevant environments and that macroscopic objects coated with these materials can be used to promote the surface mediated delivery of RNase A Rto cells. However several additional important points deserve comment. First past studies have demonstrated that proteins can be incorporated into multilayered films without changes in protein structure or loss of biological function. Fluorescence based enzyme activity assays were conducted using aliquots of PBS containing RNase A Rreleased from RNase A R SPS films. These experiments demonstrated that a substantial fraction of the RNase A released from these materials remained catalytically active. However several synthetic polyanions are known to be potent inhibitors of RNase A. These experiments suggest that the presence of SPS in these solutions can act to inhibit the activity of RNase A in these assays and thus additional analytical experiments can be conducted to establish quantitatively the activity of the RNase A released from these materials. Second although the RNase A R SPS films investigated here dissolve and release their contents rapidly it may prove possible to incorporate new polymer structures or other design elements that permit gradual erosion and the sustained release of protein. Finally many past studies have demonstrated the conjugation of cationic protein transduction domains to proteins of therapeutic and biotechnological interest. The present invention thus suggests the basis of methods that could be used to fabricate ultrathin films that permit the localized delivery of therapeutic proteins to cells and tissues.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a general approach for the incorporation of proteins into multilayered polyelectrolyte assemblies that makes use of cationic protein transduction domains. Conjugation of the cationic protein transduction domain nonaarginine R to RNase A results in an increase in positive charge and as a result an increase in the extent to which RNase A is internalized by cells. The conjugation of Rto RNase A permits the incorporation of RNase A into films under conditions that do not allow for incorporation of the unmodified protein. This result suggests that Rfunctions as a cationic anchor that increases the strength of electrostatic interactions with SPS and facilitates layer by layer assembly. In addition films fabricated from RNase A Rand SPS dissolve and release RNase A Rinto solution rapidly when incubated in physiologically relevant environments. These materials can thus be used to localize the release of RNase A Rand the internalization of this protein by cells. The placement of film coated quartz slides in contact with COS 7 cells resulted in high levels of protein transduction in cells that were growing under or in contact with these materials. Many past studies have demonstrated the feasibility of conjugating Ror other synthetic or naturally occurring cationic protein transduction domains to proteins of therapeutic and biotechnological interest. The present invention thus provides for the design of ultrathin films and coatings that permit the localized delivery of therapeutic proteins from the surfaces of implantable materials and or provide spatial and temporal control over the release and internalization of engineered proteins in other biotechnological applications.

It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular devices methodology protocols subjects or reagents described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is limited only by the claims. Other suitable modifications and adaptations of a variety of conditions and parameters normally encountered and obvious to those skilled in the art of molecular biology biotechnology nanotechnology and nanobiology are within the scope of this invention. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

