---

title: Methods and systems for protecting E-mail addresses in publicly available network content
abstract: A content server includes an e-mail masking module. The e-mail masking module is configured to replace text-based c-mail addresses, contained in content provided by the content server, with images of the e-mail addresses. The e-mail masking module can be a part of the content server. The e-mail masking module can be a standalone module capable of being installed into or operate in conjunction with the content server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08375089&OS=08375089&RS=08375089
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08375089
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080528
---
This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for network based products and services.

The rise of the Internet has made information readily available and accessible to people around the world. People can openly and freely share information without the difficulties of the past. Unfortunately the availability of information provides opportunities for malicious activity. E mail spam bots collect e mail addresses from the Internet in order to build mailing lists for sending unsolicited e mail also known as spam. A spam bot is a type of web crawler that can gather e mail addresses from Web sites newsgroups special interest group SIG postings and chat room conversations without the consent of the owners of the e mail addresses. Because e mail addresses are typically represented in text format and have a distinctive format E mail spam bots can scan the Internet and easily identify and collect the e mail addresses.

Typically individuals or companies can protect personal information such as e mail addresses included in their personal or corporate network sites. However individuals or companies can not control the information included on third party sites. Often third parties will include an individual s e mail addresses on sites out of the individual s control for example a third party s blogs. Thus there is a need in the art for systems and methods to globally and seamlessly protect e mail addresses from malicious activities such as spam bots.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and service portals and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for protecting e mail addresses in publicly available network based content. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which the c mail addresses are protected by replacing the text based e mail addresses with images of the e mail addresses.

According to embodiments in general a content server includes an e mail masking module. The e mail masking module is configured to replace text based e mail addresses contained in the content provided by the content server with images of the e mail addresses. The e mail masking module can be a part of the content server. Likewise the e mail masking module can be a standalone module capable of being installed into or operate in conjunction with the content server.

According to embodiments the content server receives a request to provide content. The content can be any type of network based content available in network applications such as a web pages chat session web forums blogs and the like. The content server can be configured to retrieve the requested content from a repository such as a database or a file system. Likewise the content server can be configured to pass content from one user to another without storing the content in a repository. Once retrieved the content server passes the content to the e mail masking module. The e mail masking module is configured to replace text based e mail addresses contained in the content with images of the e mail addresses.

To locate e mail addresses in the content the e mail masking module parses the content to identify the e mail addresses. The e mail masking module searches the retrieved content for a feature common to e mail addresses such as the character.

To replace the located e mail addresses with images of the e mail addresses the e mail masking module can maintain a record of the images associated with an index for those e mail addresses. The index can be a shortened representation of the e mail address for example a hash. Likewise the e mail masking module can generate the images each time they are requested without maintaining a record of the images.

The e mail masking module determines an index for the located e mail addresses in the content. For example the e mail masking module can be configured to apply a hash function to the located e mail addresses. The hashed e mail address can represent the index for the e mail address. Once an index has been determined for a located e mail address the e mail masking module can be configured to search the record to find a stored index that matches the determined index. The e mail masking module can then retrieve the image associated with the matching index for each located email address. If the e mail masking module does not find a matching index the e mail masking module can create a new image and new index for the e mail address and store the new image associated with the new index. Likewise if the e mail masking module does not maintain a record of images the e mail masking module can be configured to generate images without searching in a record.

Once the e mail masking module has retrieved or generated the images for the located e mail addresses in the retrieved content the e mail masking module can pass the retrieved images to the content server for replacement of the located text based email addresses. Likewise the e mail masking module can be configured to replace the e mail addresses with the images.

By replacing the text based e mail addresses with images content can be provided that is secure from malicious programs such as spam bots. That is most malicious programs that capture the email addresses utilize some method of text searching and parsing. The substituted images cannot be extracted by the spam bots but are still viewable by users. Additionally by including the e mail masking module in the content server e mail addresses can be protected across different platforms or applications not under the control of particular individuals.

As shown in system includes users a content server and a network . The users can be private individuals employees of private business or public entities or other persons interested in accessing or receiving content provided by the content server . The users can communicate with the content server using personal computers personal mobile devices workstations or other networked computing platforms.

The network can be a combination of wide area and local area networks such as the Internet. The network can be configured to provide a communication channel between the users and the content server . The network can implement a variety of network protocols to provide the communication channel such as Internet Protocol IP v4 v6 ATM SONET or other similar network protocols.

The content server can be configured to provide content to users . The content server can be any type of network system that provides an interface and provides content on request. For example the content server can be a blogging engine content management system forum engine bug reporting system mailing list server web archive or general web server. The content can be any type of network based content such as a web page chat session web forum and the like.

The content server can be coupled to a repository such as a database or a file system. The repository can be implemented in any type of storage medium and using any type of open source or proprietary software. The repository can be utilized to store the content provided by the content server . Likewise the content server can be configured to provide content between users without storing the content in a repository.

The content server can also be configured to include an e mail masking module . The e mail masking module can be configured to replace text based e mail addresses contained in the content provided by the content server with images of the e mail addresses. The e mail masking module can be a part of the content server . Likewise the e mail masking module can be a standalone module capable of being installed into or operate in cooperation with the content server .

According to embodiments the content server passes the content to the e mail masking module . The e mail masking module is configured to replace text based e mail addresses contained in the content with images of the e mail addresses. To locate e mail addresses in the content the e mail masking module parses the content to identify the e mail addresses. The e mail masking module searches the retrieved content for a feature common to e mail addresses such as the character.

To replace the located e mail addresses with images of the e mail addresses the e mail masking module can maintain a record of the images associated with an index for those e mail addresses. The index can be a shortened representation of the e mail address for example a hash. The e mail masking module can maintain the record in repository .

The e mail masking module determines an index for the located e mail addresses in the content. For example the e mail masking module can be configured to apply a hash function to the located e mail addresses. The hashed e mail address can represent the index for the e mail address. Once an index has been determined for a located e mail address the e mail masking module can be configured to search the record to find a stored index that matches the determined index. The e mail masking module can then retrieve the image associated with the matching index for each located email address. If the e mail masking module does not find a matching index the e mail masking module can create a new image and new index for the e mail address and store the new image associated with the new index in the record.

Likewise the e mail masking module can generate the images each time they are requested without maintaining a record of the images. If the e mail masking module does not maintain a record of images the e mail masking module can be configured to generate images without searching in a record.

Once the e mail masking module has retrieved or generated the images for the located e mail addresses in the retrieved content the e mail masking module can pass the retrieved images to the content server for replacement of the located email address. Likewise the e mail masking module can be configured to replace the e mail addresses with the images.

As shown in the e mail masking module can comprise a control module an application programming interface API a parser module an indexing module a repository interface and an image module . It should be readily obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that the modules can be implemented as software applications programmed in C C JAVA PHP etc. hardware components EEPROM application specific integrated circuit microprocessor etc. or combinations thereof.

Control module can be configured to manage and interface with the other modules to provide the functionality of the e mail masking module as described above and further described herein below.

To replace the e mail addresses with images of the e mail addresses the e mail masking module can maintain a record of the images associated with an index for those e mail addresses. The index can be a shortened representation of the e mail address for example a hash. Record can include an index field for storing the indexes and e mail image field for storing the images. The images are a graphical representation of a text based e mail address. As such the e mail address contained in the image would still be viewable by a user but could not be captured by a spam bot. The images of the e mail addresses can be any type of image format such as JPEG TIFF Bit Map GIFF and the like.

The e mail masking module can maintain the record in repository . As such the control module can be configured to communicate with repository via the repository interface . One skilled in the art will realize that e mail masking module can maintain the record in any storage medium including storage contained in the e mail masking module or the content server . Likewise the record can be a permanent or a temporary record depending on the configuration.

To provide content the content server receives a request to provide content. The content server can be configured to retrieve the requested content from a repository such as a database or a file system. Likewise the content server can be configured to pass the content from one user to another without storing the content in a repository. The content can include one or more e mail address such as johndoe net.com .

Once retrieved or received the content server passes the content to the e mail masking module via API . The e mail masking module is configured to replace e mail addresses contained in the content with images of the e mail addresses.

To locate e mail addresses in the content the control module passes the content to parser module . The parser module parses the content to identify the text based e mail addresses. The parser module can be configured to search the content for a feature common to e mail addresses such as the 1 character.

The e mail masking module determines an index for the located e mail addresses in the content . As such the control module passes the located e mail addresses to the indexing module . The indexing module can be configured to transform the e mail addresses into a common and shortened index. For example the indexing module can be configured to apply a hash function to the located e mail addresses. The hashed e mail address can be the index for the e mail address.

Once indexes have been determined for e mail addresses the e mail masking module can be configured to search the record to find a stored index that matches the determined index. The control module can retrieve the record via interface . The control module can then retrieve the image associated with the matching index for each located email address.

If the e mail masking module does not find a matching index the e mail masking module can create a new image and new index for the e mail address and store the new image associated with the new index. In particular the control module can pass the e mail address to the image module and indexing module . The image module can be configured to create an image from the text based e mail address. The control module can store the new image and the new index created by the indexing module in record .

Likewise the e mail masking module can generate the images each time they are requested without maintaining a record of the images. If the e mail masking module does not maintain a record of images the e mail masking module can be configured to pass the located e mail addresses to the image module to generate the images without searching in a record.

Once the e mail masking module has retrieved or generated the images for the located e mail addresses in the content the control module can pass the retrieved images to the content server for replacement of the located e mail address. In particular the content server can include a content replacement module . The content replacement module can be configured to modify the content . The content replacement module can perform a substitution of the textual addresses with the images before the content is sent to the user. While illustrated as part of content server the content replacement module can be incorporated in the e mail masking module and coupled to control module in order to replace the e mail addresses in the content with the images.

While illustrates the e mail masking module being part of the content server the e mail masking module can be a standalone module capable of being installed into or operate in cooperation with the content server . Likewise the e mail masking module can be a separate system capable of communicating with the users the content server and the repository .

Once retrieved or received in the content server passes the content to the e mail masking module . The e mail masking module is configured to replace e mail addresses contained in the content with images of the e mail addresses.

To replace e mail addresses in the content in the e mail masking module parses the content to identify the text based e mail addresses. The e mail masking module searches the retrieved content for a feature common to e mail addresses such as the character. The e mail masking module can maintain a record of the images associated with an index for those e mail addresses. The index can represent a shortened representation of the e mail address for example a hash.

In the e mail masking module determines an index for the located e mail addresses in the content. For example the e mail masking module can be configured to apply a hash function to the located e mail addresses. The hashed e mail address can be the index for the e mail address.

Once an index has been determined for a located e mail address in the e mail masking module determines if a record of images contains a matching index. The e mail masking module can be configured to search the record to find a stored index that matches the determined index.

If the e mail masking module does not find a matching index in the e mail masking module creates a new image and new index for the e mail address and stores the new image associated with the new index. Otherwise in the e mail masking module retrieves the image associated with the matching index for each located email address.

Once the e mail masking module has retrieved the images for the located e mail addresses in the retrieved content in the e mail masking module passes the retrieved images to the content server for replacement of the located email addresses. The e mail masking module can be configured to replace the located e mail addresses with the images.

Then in if the content server receives no further requests the process can end but the process can return to any point and repeat.

In the process illustrated in the images can be retrieved from a record. Likewise the e mail masking module can generate the images each time they are requested without maintaining a record of the images. As such stages can be omitted. If the e mail masking module does not maintain a record of images the e mail masking module can be configured to pass the located e mail addresses to the image module to generate the images without searching in a record.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making request for content can be a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another content server providing content to other users.

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

