---

title: Caustic, corrosive or conductive liquid/gas sensor using lateral-field-excited resonator
abstract: A sensor for sensing a property of an analyte includes a QCM resonator that has a crystal substrate that includes an electrode depositing surface and an analyte contact surface that are physically separated. The resonator further includes a plurality of electrodes operatively connected with the electrode depositing surface and laterally spaced apart one from another.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07993584&OS=07993584&RS=07993584
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07993584
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081121
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. Patent And Trademark Office application Ser. No. 10 863 831 entitled Corrosive or Conductive Liquid Gas Sensor Using Lateral Field Excited Resonator which was filed on Jun. 1 2004 now abandoned by the same inventor herein. This Continuation In Part is being filed under 35 USC 120 and 37 CFR 1.53 and priority from that application is hereby claimed.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to acoustic sensors and more particularly to sensors comprising quartz crystal microbalance resonators.

Sensors comprising quartz crystal microbalance QCM resonators are generally known. QCM resonators may function as acoustic wave resonators to provide highly sensitive detection mechanism for fluid analytes. As illustrated in a typical QCM resonator is shown generally at and comprises a piezoelectric crystal substrate located between a pair of electrodes having leads . In this configuration an electric field may be generated by the electrodes and extend therebetween along a transverse axis or through the thickness of the piezoelectric crystal substrate . Hence in this configuration the QCM resonator may be termed a thickness field excitation TFE resonator. The electrodes and the crystal are dimensioned to achieve an optimal resonance condition.

One particular example of a TFE resonator is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 478 to Oyama et al wherein the resonator is arranged in a multi channel structure. The resonator includes a crystal substrate that has four mutually opposed electrodes disposed on opposite sides of the substrate. In operation the TFE resonator may be used to detect and quantitatively analyze components of a sample from a variation in fundamental resonant frequency and impedance when a surface of one of the pair of electrodes is immersed into either a sample gas or solution.

While the above TFE resonators have been suitable for use with non caustic analytes it has been found that when these resonators are immersed into a caustic substance the electrodes tend to deteriorate as a result of contact between the electrodes and a caustic corrosive or electrode degrading analyte which oftentimes causes electrode deterioration reduced sensitivity and inaccurate sensor readings. When QCM electrodes are made with a gold layer on top of a chrome or titanium adhesion layer on the surface of quartz corrosive analytes such as a strong acid will attack the adhesion layer when contacting the electrode. For example aqua regia which is a mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid will even dissolve gold resulting in lifting the prior art electrode off of the adhesion layer. Also use of these resonators is restricted to non conductive analytes because of the possibility that the electric field may become shorted. Accordingly to date no suitable QCM resonator is available for analyzing a caustic corrosive or conductive analyte. Thus there has been a long felt need for resonators configured with electrodes that are not damaged or deteriorated because of contact with caustic corrosive or conductive analytes.

In order to satisfy the long felt need for resonators configured with electrodes that are not damaged or deteriorated because of contact with caustic corrosive or conductive analytes and in accordance with the present invention a sensor for sensing a property of an analyte is provided in several embodiments with a resonator that comprises a crystal substrate that has an electrode depositing surface and an analyte contact surface that are physically separated. The resonator further comprises a plurality of electrodes operatively connected with the electrode depositing surface and laterally spaced apart one from another. In accordance with this invention no electrodes contact a caustic corrosive or conductive analyte and only the bare quartz side contacts the analyte while prior art devices with electrodes on both sides will have at least one electrode contacting such analyte causing electrode deterioration reduced sensitivity and inaccurate sensor readings. This invention s sensors are configured for testing caustic corrosive or conductive analytes with the electrode depositing surface and electrodes physically separated from an analyte contact surface.

In one embodiment of the present invention depicted in a sensor for sensing a property of an analyte comprises a resonator that comprises a crystal substrate that has an electrode depositing surface and an analyte contact surface. A plurality of electrodes may be operatively connected with the electrode depositing surface and laterally spaced apart one from another. The sensor may further comprise a housing for supporting the resonator and the analyte and that comprises a base and an analyte support container to function as an analyte contact surface. The analyte support container may comprise an aperture wherein the resonator is located such that the electrode depositing surface is disposed proximate the aperture of the analyte support container but still physically separated therefrom. It is also noted that in sensor configurations for testing a conductive analyte the physical separation of the electrode depositing surface from the analyte contact surface prevents the alternating electric field from leaking into the analyte which avoids the loss of acoustic energy that is usually caused by such leakage and allows improved sensitivity.

One embodiment of the present invention concerns a quartz crystal microbalance QCM resonator that is suitable for use with a caustic corrosive or conductive analyte. In other embodiments of the present invention sensor devices employing a QCM resonator suitable for use with a conductive or corrosive analyte are presented. All embodiments of this invention require a lateral field excitation LFE QCM resonator that propagates a bulk acoustic wave BAW .

Referring now to a QCM resonator in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated generally at . In this embodiment the QCM resonator comprises a substrate electrodes and electrode leads . The substrate may comprise a piezoelectric crystal material such as quartz that functions in such a way that when the quartz is contacted with a property of an analyte to be measured it varies in resonant frequency and impedance in a known manner. Examples of properties of an analyte to be measured include viscosity and density. The substrate may comprise any suitable outer geometrical configuration such as square or circular and comprises an electrode depositing surface and an analyte contact surface that are physically separated so that the analyte is confined to the analyte contact surface and cannot contact the electrode depositing surface . Although not illustrated as such the analyte contact surface may be coated with a material such as an antibody and or a polymer that may enhance sensitivity or selectivity of the QCM resonator .

In accordance with a feature of this embodiment of the present invention the electrodes are located away from any contact with an analyte that is limited and confined to the analyte contact surface . As illustrated both of the electrodes are located on the electrode depositing surface although other locations on the substrate may be possible so long as the electrode depositing surface is physically separated from the analyte contact surface . The electrodes may comprise any suitable highly conductive metallic substance although gold is preferred and may be applied to the substrate via photolithography or deposited via e.g. evaporation sputtering or electroplating. Electrode leads may be connected at one end to the electrodes and at the other to a suitable AC source at the resonant frequency of the resonator and measuring device not shown .

In this configuration an electric field may be generated by the electrodes along a lateral axis of the piezoelectric crystal substrate thus the QCM resonator is termed an LFE QCM resonator. As in the TFE case the electrodes and the crystal may be dimensioned to achieve an optimal resonance condition.

Another embodiment in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in FIG S and wherein a sensor device comprises a QCM resonator and a housing for an analyte . The QCM resonator may be similar to the QCM resonator described above and similarly comprises a substrate including an electrode depositing surface electrodes deposited to the electrode depositing surface and electrode leads with the electrode depositing surface and electrode leads physically separated from the analyte support container functioning as an analyte contact surface.

The housing may comprise an analyte support container and a base . The analyte support container and the base may each comprise a moldable polymeric material such as a polyethylene or a polyamide and may also each comprise generally cylindrical outer configurations as illustrated. The analyte support container is illustrated as having a generally closed configuration including a chamber for the analyte and an aperture although it will be understood that the analyte support container may comprise a lid or cover not shown or be connected to a pipe or conduit also not shown for communication of the analyte to the chamber in a continuous flow like process.

The base comprises an open end not numbered that is preferably dimensioned to receive the analyte support container which is best seen in . A seal such as an O ring is provided to seal the analyte adjacent an analyte support surface from a cavity of the base . A spring may be interposed between the base and the QCM resonator for biasing the resonator adjacent the O ring which is in turn biased adjacent the analyte support container . An insulating ring may be employed to insulate the spring and prevent shorting the electrodes . This embodiment allows for an easy replacement of the QCM resonator when the need of the replacement of the QCM resonator arises. For example when the resonator is damaged or when use of the resonator with a different coating not shown for sensing different analyte is necessary.

Thus this invention provides three sensor embodiments for sensing the properties of electrode degrading corroding or conductive analytes to include caustic analytes where the electrode depositing surface is physically separated from the analyte contact surface so that the analyte is confined to the analyte contact surface or analyte support container and the electrodes will not contact the analyte.

While the present invention has been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to these herein disclosed embodiments. Rather the present invention is intended to cover all of the various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

