---

title: System, method and apparatus for selecting content from web sources and posting content to web logs
abstract: A method, system and apparatus for selecting, displaying, managing, tracking tagging and transferring access to specific content of Internet web pages and other sources, permitting the user or recipient to navigate quickly to a source of a content item in the custom selection, and posting content to web logs. A method and system of assisted content selection provides temporary borders around content items on mouseover; of Dynamic Content Display provides updating of selected content items; of Content Marks allows users to tag specific content items in web pages with a keyword or keywords, store a definition of the content item along with the keyword(s), and then search the stored definitions using search keywords; and a method of Multiple Clip Mode allows users to select specific content items from disparate source web pages and then tag, save, search, retrieve and print the selection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595635&OS=08595635&RS=08595635
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 08595635
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional utility patent application Ser. No. 60 897 449 filed Jan. 25 2007 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention pertains in general to the World Wide Web and more particularly to a method system and apparatus for selecting displaying managing tracking and transferring access to content accessible by computing devices on the World Wide Web and other sources.

Interconnected computer systems such as those interconnected by the Internet and the like provide fast and convenient means for obtaining information from various sources throughout the world and for sharing the information with others. In the world of the Internet one of the forms of this information is the web page.

An Internet web page can contain a large amount of information and a large number of individual items such as text photographs moving images and the like. The present invention enables Users to quickly and conveniently focus on and display separately selected items of content of a web page and to share those selected items with other individuals or systems over the network.

The World Wide Web uses a growing variety of media styles and elements arranged in the form of web pages. These web pages contain various types of content including text pictures and other compelling visual formats. As a rule web pages have a finite amount of usable space in which to place text images and other content. Because of this the authors of the web pages must make compromises in regards to how much space is reserved for textual information and how much for the other visual aspects images animation video etc . An analogy can be made to a newspaper. Each section of the paper is provided its own space on the paper itself with boundaries defining where topics stories and pictures appear. Since a web page also follows many of these same layout restrictions elements within a web page are typically restricted to given areas on the page.

One notable difference between the pages of printed matter and the pages of a web site lies in the digital format of the web page. The web page can be dynamic and changeable whereas the printed pages are fixed and unchanging. But because web pages share much of their layout characteristics with the printed page even the digital format must obey the space restrictions placed upon it. This is what determines how much space a picture or image gets in comparison to the text on a page. Text be it on a printed page or web page follows normal publishing rules regarding size font spacing and other factors affecting the page design. Images pictures and other rich content however are restricted by the remaining limited space available on the page. There is therefore a need for a method system and apparatus that allows users to display selected content from web pages and other sources in separate scalable and re sizable windows.

Often as users view web pages they find that they have no easy or practical way to simultaneously view content from two different web pages or web sites. Some of the methods that have been devised to overcome this limitation include launching multiple instances of a web browser or opening a link in a new window both launch a new full instance of the browser . This allows users to try to resize the content within each page or browser instance and fit both on the screen together. Most browsers will resize but the contents within the page often will not. Additionally by opening another fully enabled browser instance users consume more memory resources than one browser instance would consume. By opening a link in a new window if permitted users are still running another full browser instance and downloading that whole page in its entirety regardless of which part of the page interests them wasting time and bandwidth. Most web browsers and web sites display one web page at a time. To display more than one page additional browser instances would be opened. There is therefore a need for a method system and apparatus that allows users to simultaneously display selected content from different web pages in a manner that does not require the user to launch multiple fully enabled browsers.

If a user wants to share web page content with others the current and easiest existing method is to E mail a link to that content. The user would simply copy the URL in the address bar of their browser and paste it into an E mail message. Another method that is considerably faster is that of Instant Messaging. Online the user would copy and paste the URL of the shared web page in real time. This has significant speed advantages and allows for an almost virtual meeting to take place. Unfortunately the web pages do not always indicate the URL for the web page a user is viewing. This makes it difficult if not impossible for the user to share the location of this web page with another user. Another problem is caused by dynamic form driven pages. These pages may have a number of drop down lists from which the user could choose or blank fields that might require user input. Because the URL for the resulting page may not be visible to the end user it is difficult for a user show another user selected content. Much time is wasted by users having to walk the other user through the entire web site in order for them to see the same results on their browser. There is therefore a need for a method and system that allows users to share selected visual content from web pages with other users. There is also therefore a need for a method system and apparatus that allows users to share only selected content from web pages in a manner that saves time and reduces bandwidth use.

The invention provides a system method and apparatus for posting to web logs content accessible by computing devices such as content in web pages pop up windows players and plug ins available on the World Wide Web word processor documents spreadsheets and other like content. The selected content can be in the form of plain text or can be in the form of static or dynamic graphic images such as pictures movies animations web casts 3 D images or the like. Further using the system the User can select and post several different content items of the same type or of different types and place all of the items in an independent browser window.

Importantly the posted content or placed in the independent browser window only contains the content items selected by the User and does not contain other content which may be present in the original source of the content. For example a User may wish to select a specific image or string of text from a web page containing several images or a lengthy text section. Thus the system allows the User to create an independent window with only the desired content item free from other content items on the source which permits the User to focus on the desired content item. Thus the system provides a heretofore unavailable ability for a User to create a grouping or custom selection of content available from the World Wide Web or other sources and post the selection to a web log.

The system also provides the ability to adjust both the size of the entire independent browser window and separately the size of each content item within the window. Other important capabilities of the system include the ability to easily search for content similar to the selected content and the ability to transfer access to the custom selection to others via electronic mail instant messenger applications and other electronic communications methods.

The invention is effected in part by software added to the User s computing device which is preferably in the form of a plug in to an Internet browser such as the Internet Explorer Internet browser of Microsoft Corporation or the Netscape Navigator Internet browser of Netscape Corporation or similar content viewing applications. The software on the User s computing device modifies the User s browser to allow the User to select and post desired content from a web page or other document or spreadsheet or the like and optionally to place the desired content in an independent browser window free from other content on the source web page or document. To access functions provided by the software the software creates a toolbar on the browser the Main Toolbar having menu items or icons which activate the functions.

In a preferred form the software allows the User to select desired content from a web page by directing the mouse pointer over the content depressing the right mouse button i.e. right click and choosing a Select Content Function offered in an otherwise standard pop up menu. In the drawings included herewith the Select Content Function on such pop up menu is identified by the word Amplify . In the case of a text selection the User preferably first defines the desired text by using the standard click and drag method and then the right click method. Alternatively the system may allow the user to highlight selected content items with borders and or overlays.

For some types of content such as media content the system may place a floating icon over the content when the mouse is directed over the content. The floating icon can be used clicked on to select the content item with one click. Preferably the floating icon appears as an overlay on top of the content item and only appears when the User directs the mouse pointer over the content item. Thus the floating icon does not ordinarily obscure the content item.

After the User selects the content the software may present the User with a Properties Window that allows the User to enter a descriptive Description for the Custom selection being created by the User and allows the User to enter Keywords for the custom selection. As described in detail below the software uses the Keywords to perform searches for similar content on the World Wide Web.

Next the software creates an independent browser window the Custom Selection Window containing only a relatively small toolbar the Window Toolbar and the custom selection of the content items selected by the User. This allows the User to select and focus on desired content free from additional and possibly distracting content on the source page.

Certain content available on the World Wide Web such as movies animations and web casts 3 D images and the like may require that additional software be present on the User s computer. Such additional software includes media players such as Microsoft s Windows Medial Player Real Media s Real Player Apple s Quicktime and other similar media players and includes other applets plug ins applications and programs. The User would need to install this software prior to using the system of the invention for these types of content.

The system also provides the ability for the User to save a Custom Selection Window for later viewing. One mode of this feature creates a Most Recently Used MRU list or History which saves a predetermined number e.g. 20 of the last saved custom selections in chronological order of use. Another mode of this feature the Send to Favorites function creates a semi permanent list of Favorites. Preferably the Main Toolbar accessible on the main browser includes a retrieval function the GoTo Favorites function accessible via a menu item or icon. When selected the GoTo Favorites function displays a list of saved Custom Selection Windows which are identified by the Description entered by the User when creating the Custom Selection Window. Thus once a Custom Selection Window is sent to Favorites the User can quickly and conveniently recreate the window at a later time by choosing the selection from the list of Favorites. The system also provides a convenient means for the User to print the Custom Selection Window. The Send To Printer function is preferably made available via a menu item or icon on the Window Toolbar.

The software is preferably compatible with several different computing platforms such as Microsoft Windows based and Apple computers internet appliances personal digital assistants PDAs such as the Palm Pilot and the like and other computing platforms such that custom selections can be shared among Users of various computing devices. Further certain items of User defined attribute information such as the User s Favorites and the Friends List are preferably portable amongst various computing devices of the User. The software accomplishes this function by transmitting the attribute information to the Server and storing the information along with the unique User Identifier. The User s attribute information is retrieved using the User Identifier when the User first launches the browser. Thus the system provides a consistent and familiar experience regardless of which computing device the User chooses.

The user can post to web logs selected content items including previously saved selections of content items by providing the access credentials and network location e.g. url of the web log to the system and then directing the system to post the selection to the web log. The user can do so without leaving the web site from which the content is selected. Therefore the system provides a convenient and effective method to add content items to one s web log.

It can be appreciated that the present invention provides a convenient method for a User to create view modify print and save custom groupings of image and text content items available on web pages and other sources to search for other related content and to transfer access to such selections with others which method is effected in a manner which avoids the limitations of electronic communications methods which reduces the time and bandwidth required to share the custom groupings via electronic messages and which provides for highly accurate and flexible tracking of such content viewing and sharing.

Referring to to employ the present invention the User installs software on the User s computing device that adds functionality to the Internet browser application and operating system of the User s computing device. Upon installation of the software the software communicates with a remote Server that assigns a unique User Identifier for the User and transmits the User Identifier to the User s computing device which stores the User Identifier on a memory device for later use.

The software adds a Main Toolbar to the browser application on the User s computing device to allow the User to create a custom selection by selecting desired content items from a web page or other document or spreadsheet or the like and to place the desired content items in an independent browser window free from other content on the source web page or document. As discussed in detail below the Main Toolbar has menu items or icons that activate some of the functions.

By default the software may analyze web pages and other types of sources upon loading into the browser application to identify content items supported by the software and to determine the network locations of the content items. A list of supported content is preferably contained in a file stored on the User s computing device such as in a Dynamic Link Library DLL that can be updated automatically as new types of content become supported by the software. The Main Toolbar preferably provides a menu item that allows the User to disable the automatic page scanning if desired.

Referring to the Main Toolbar includes an Identified Content menu item that displays an Identified Content Items List of supported and identified content items in the web page or source currently loaded into the browser application. The User can select a desired content item by clicking on the item in the Identified Content Items List .

Referring to the User can also select a desired content item from a web page by directing a pointing device of the computing device e.g. a mouse pointer over the content item in the page depressing the right mouse button i.e. right click and choosing a Select Content Item Function offered in an otherwise standard pop up menu . In the drawings included herewith the Select Content Item Function on such pop up menu is identified by the word Amplify .

It should be noted that when selecting content items the software obtains the network location and name of the content item from the web page or other source of the content item and retains the network location in memory which is preferably temporary memory. Specifically the system obtains and retains the complete network location of the content item whether the content item is defined in the source code of the document e.g. web page by an absolute uniform resource locator url or by a relative url. Further it should be noted that content items and groups of content items can be selected using the standard click and drag method and then the right click method.

In the case of a content item that is text the User preferably first defines the desired text by using the standard click and drag method and then the right click method. This function is also operable to select non text content items. A group of non text content items or a group of text and non text content items may be selected in a similar manner by selecting the entire group for example using the click and drag method. Preferably a select function inherent in the operating system e.g. Windows is employed to obtain HTML coding or other formatting instructions for the text and or non text content items. It should be noted that as used herein the term click is meant to encompass any means or method by which the pointing device receives a selection command from the User.

Referring to for some types of content such as media content the system preferably places a floating Instant Selection Icon over the content item when the User directs the mouse pointer over the display area or frame of the content item. The Instant Selection Icon can be used clicked on to select the content item with one click. Preferably the Instant Selection Icon appears as an overlay on top of the content item and only appears when the User directs the mouse pointer over the display area or frame of the content item. Thus the Instant Selection Icon does not ordinarily obscure the content item.

Referring to after the User selects the content item the software may present a Properties Window that allows the User to enter a Description for the custom selection being created by the User and allows the User to enter Keywords for the custom selection. As described in detail below the software uses the Keywords to perform searches for similar content on the World Wide Web.

Referring to the software then creates an independent browser window the Custom Selection Window containing only a relatively small toolbar the Window Toolbar and the custom selection of the content item selected by the User. This allows the User to select and focus on desired content free from additional and possibly distracting content on the source page. The network location of the content item is retrieved from the temporary memory to which it was stored during the selection process.

The software preferably loads the content item into the Custom Selection Window directly from the original network source of the content item identified during the selection process. It is intended that the term network source as used herein include any cached source that may be present on the network.

Preferably the Custom Selection Window is of a predetermined size and may be resized by the User in the known manner of resizing windows. Also preferably the content item selected by the User is set to occupy specific percentages of the height and width of the window other than the Window Toolbar such as 100 . Thus when the User adjusts the height or width or both of the Custom Selection Window the browser application adjusts the dimensions of the content item within the window proportionately. However the system preferably maintains any original aspect ratio settings of the content item.

Certain content available on the World Wide Web such as movies animations and web casts 3 D images and the like may require that additional software be present on the User s computer. Such additional software includes external player programs such as Microsoft s Windows Medial Player Real Media s Real Player Apple s Quicktime and other similar media players helper application applets plug ins and other programs. The User would need to install this software prior to using the system of the invention for these types of content.

The software allows the User to have several instances of the Custom Selection Window open at any given time each window containing a different custom selection. If additional software is required to view a content item in a Custom Selection Window such as a media player or applet or the like the additional software is preferably defined within the Custom Selection Window as an embedded object which allows multiple instances of the additional software to operate on the computing device at the same time. In this manner the User can select and view several content items requiring the same additional software at the same time.

Referring to the software also allows the User to add additional content items to an existing Custom Selection Window . To do this the User preferably first divides a Frame of an existing content item in the Custom Selection Window to add a new frame to the window. The Frame Toolbar which appears over the content item in the Custom Selection Window includes New Frame Bottom New Frame Top New Frame Right and New Frame Left icons or menu items that add a new frame below above to the left or to the right respectively of the existing content item . The software preferably divides the frame of the selected content item into two equal sub frames with one of the frames occupied by the existing content item and the other frame blank. Then the User selects an additional content item in the manner described above.

Referring to upon the selection of an additional content item the software determines whether there exist other open Custom Selection Windows. If so the software presents a Select Target Window that displays an Open Window List of all open Custom Selection Windows which are preferably identified by the Description entered by the User when creating the windows. Preferably the User can select an open window from the Open Window List . The Select Target Window also preferably provides a New Window button icon or menu item to allow the User to place the content item in its own Custom Selection Window if desired.

Upon the selection of an open Custom Selection Window as the target the software displays the selected Custom Selection Window which includes the frame occupied by the existing content item and a blank frame as shown in . If the Custom Selection Window contains more than one blank frame the software then preferably pauses and prompts the User to select the blank frame in which to place the additional content item. The User can select the desired blank frame by clicking within the border of the frame. If the Custom Selection Window contains only one blank frame then the software may automatically place the additional content item within that frame.

Referring to the software then displays the modified Custom Selection Window which now contains both the first content item e.g. in the top frame and the additional content item in the bottom frame .

Referring to the process can be repeated to populate the Custom Selection Window with more content items. In this case a new frame is added to the right of the bottom frame . As above the new frame is added by selecting the New Fame Right icon in the Frame Toolbar not shown of the bottom frame to add a frame to the right of the bottom frame . As shown a text selection content item can then be placed in the new frame in the manner described above.

The software preferably defines the frames of the Custom Selection Window in HTML to collectively occupy specific percentages e.g. 100 of the height and width of the Custom Selection Window not including the Window Toolbar . Further as with a single content item each of the several content items is preferably set to occupy specific percentages e.g. 100 of the height and width of its respective frame. The User may also preferably resize and rescale the frames in a Custom Selection Window by relocating a border between frames by clicking on and dragging a border to a new location. When the frame border is relocated the browser application resizes both of the content items within the frames that share that border proportionately. However the system preferably maintains any original aspect ratio settings of the content item. It can be appreciated that the ability to arrange size and resize multiple content items within one independent browser page gives the User great flexibility when creating custom selections.

As a first step in creating the Custom Selection Window the software first determines what type of content has been selected and determines whether there exists other open Custom Selection Windows. The software then defines certain parameters of the content item such as the source page or document of the content item and the file name of the content item. Then the software launches a new browser application window and passes the XML structure of the image to the new window.

Upon the creation of the new window the software pauses to receive an indication from the User as to the desired location of the content item within the new window. As stated above if there is only one possible i.e. blank frame for the content item then the software may automatically insert the content item in that frame. The software again determines the type of the content item and calls an appropriate function to populate the target frame with the content item.

The XML structure of a content item preferably includes tags related to the network location and other aspects of the source of the content item such as the protocol e.g. http host e.g. amplifytheweb.com path e.g. images page e.g. page.html and query. For an image item the XML structure also preferably includes tags related to the file name e.g. image.jpeg alternate information e.g. A JPEG image height and width.

The HTML code that defines the frameset for a Custom Selection Window preferably defines the frames as predetermined percentages of the window. The code may also identify the Custom Selection Window by a unique Window Identifier.

A Save icon saves the Custom Selection Window for later use. Preferably a Window Definition of the Custom Selection Window is saved in memory of the computing device of the User e.g. RAM or on a hard drive and or on a remote Server accessible via the Internet or other network. Preferably the content items of a Custom Selection Window are not themselves saved on the computing device of the User or on the Server but only the Window Definition which Window Definition contains the particulars of the Custom Selection Window and of the content items therein. Preferably the Window Definition is in the form of an XML document containing a unique Window Identifier a frameset and specific information for each frame.

Preferably upon saving a new Window Definition the software on the computing device of the User or the Server assigns a unique Window Identifier to the Custom Selection Window which is saved with or otherwise associated with the Window Definition. As discussed below the Window Identifier is used to recreate the Custom Selection Window at a later time. For non text content items the Window Definition does not include the actual content items but does include information regarding the source and identity of the content item sufficient to access or recreate the content item. Specifically for non text content items the Window Definition preferably includes information identifying the source of the content item including the domain name path and file name and includes identifying information and parameters of any media player or external application or the like required to display or play the content item. For text content items the Window Definition may include the string of text selected by the User or may include information identifying the source of the text and coordinates specifying the beginning and end points of the text. If entered by the User the Window Definition also includes the Keywords . The example of the XML code set forth in Table S below is a Window Definition having a video content item a text content item and an image content item.

Referring to the Main Toolbar includes a GoTo icon that presents a History menu item list that in turn presents a Most Recently Used MRU List of Custom Selection Windows in preferably chronological order of use. Preferably the windows are identified in the MRU List by their Descriptions . The MRU List is preferably limited to a predetermined number of windows for example the last used such that the MRU List is a dynamic list providing convenient access to recently used Custom Selection Windows. The User may recreate a Custom Selection Window from the MRU List by clicking on the Description for the window. Upon selection of a Custom Selection Window from the MRU List the software locates and retrieves the Window Definition from the memory device of the computing device or from the Server using the unique Window Identifier recreates the Custom Selection Window and loads the content items directly from the original source of each item as recorded in the Window Definition.

Referring to the Assisted Content Selection feature of the system provides the user with a high degree of certainty control and advance notice of the content items that are to be selected. Preferably the Assisted Content Selection function may be turned on or off by the user with the selection click of an activation icon on the Main Toolbar .

When the Assisted Content Selection feature is active a distinctive temporary HTML border appears around any content item over which the point device such as a mouse is placed i.e. on a mouseover event . Preferably the border is dashed and is a visually distinctive color such as green or yellow. The border lasts only as long as the mouse is over a content item and disappears when the mouse exits the area of the content item.

Preferably the borders for different types of content items are visually distinctive from one another. For example if the content item is an HTML table or a cell in an HTML table the border may be green and if the content item is an image item or a text item etc. the border may be yellow. In this manner the user can quickly and accurately determine not only which content item will be selected but also the type of content item.

The Assisted Content Selection feature is particularly useful when selecting HTML tables rows and or cells and content items within those cells. A particular content item within a cell may be accurately selected by activating the Assisted Content Selection feature and directing the mouse over the content item until a yellow border appears around the desired content item at which time the user may select the identified content item with a right click as described above or with a left click. 

A right click will produce the standard drop down menu and a Select Content Item Function of as described above in Selecting Content Items. A left click will bypass the standard drop down menu and Select Content Item Function and will proceed according to the subsequent steps as described above in Selecting Content Items and Inserting Additional Content

It should be noted that when the Assisted Content Selection feature is active a left click on a hypertext item will select the content item and will not activate the hypertext link. In other words this feature intercepts the user input which would ordinarily activate the hypertext link. When the feature is deactivated normal hypertext linking is re established. This can be advantageous when trying to select content items having hypertext links.

Referring to a cell in which the content item is located may be selected by directing the mouse into an open region e.g. white space of the cell until a green border appears around the cell. The entire table may be selected by directing the mouse to a top portion of the table until a green border appears around the entire table.

Preferably if the user selects a cell or table content item using the Assisted Content Selection feature the system prompts the user to select the entire table the entire row or just the current cell. Preferably the prompt is in the form of a pop up menu having menu options for Amplify Table Amplify Row and Amplify Cell or the like. When the user mouses over the Select Table menu option a temporary border is placed around the entire table. Similarly when the user mouses over the Select Row or Select Cell menu options a temporary border is placed around the entire row or cell respectively. Thus the user is provided with a real time clear visual representation of the table components to be selected. When the Select Row option is chosen a border is placed around all of the cells of the row such that the border defines a periphery of the row.

Referring to when the Assisted Content Selection feature is used to select tables and table rows cells the formatting of the table rows cells is preserved and is replicated in the Custom Selection Window. This formatting is maintained because using this feature the object defining the selected content item is identified and the properties of the object are used to create an identical or similar object in the Custom Selection Window.

Thus when a table row or cell is placed in a Custom Selection Window the content items within the cells in addition to the entire table and rows are also selected and have the same properties as in the original table. For example the content items have the same formatting and hypertext links as in the original table.

Preferably the system also provides the ability to choose a number of rows within a table where such rows may or may not be adjacent to one another. This additional feature is preferably invoked by depressing an alternate function key such as ALT or CTRL while right or left clicking to select the table row. In this case the system places a border around the selected row and prepares to accept another row selection. The border around the selected row will remain during and after the selection of the next row such that the user can easily determine the rows that have been selected. The process may be repeated to select multiple rows for placement in a Custom Selection Window. Preferably the rows are placed in adjacent rows in a table in the Custom Selection Window. However the properties such as formatting and hyperlinking remain unchanged from the original table. A similar method may be used to select multiple cells from one or more tables and or multiple tables from a source.

Referring to Table Z to create the temporary borders described above when a web page first loads in the browser application the program preferably creates a transparent Border Object in the page. The Border Object is preferably created last in the HTML source such that it lies over all other objects of the page. On a mouseover event the Border Object is relocated to the absolute position of the moused over content item and is resized such that the border of the Border Object closely surrounds the content item. The border of the Border Object is set to the appropriate color depending on the type of content item and the Border Object is unhidden. This creates the border around the content item.

When the mouse exits the content item the Border Object is hidden once again thereby removing the border. When the mouse then enters a new content item the process repeats relocating the Border Object resizing the Border Object setting the border attributes color and unhiding the Border Object to place a border around the next content item. Since this method of dynamically placing borders around selected content items does not modify the content item the method does not substantially alter or move the content items of the page as the mouse is moved around the page from item to item and does not substantially decrease the performance of the users computing device.

To enable the user to select a plurality of content items at once such a number of rows or several tables the system may create several Border Objects either upon loading of the page or as needed such that temporary borders may be placed around several items simultaneously.

Instead of using a transparent Border Object the temporary border can be created by modifying a border property of the content item itself to give the content item a border of the appropriate type and color. If the content item already has a border the original border is stored and replaced by the temporary border on a mouseover event. When the mouse exits the original border is replaced.

In this alternate method to create the peripheral border around a row of a table the system places the border on the left top and bottom of the left most cell of the row on the top and bottom of the intermediate cells and on the right top and bottom of the right most cell. This is effected by stepping through and modifying the properties of the cells from left to right until the right most cell is reached.

Upon selection of a content item using this method the entire highlighted content item as defined by its format language HTML tag pair is selected by the system. For example for a table cell all of the content between the and tags is selected by the system for an entire table all of the content between the and tags is selected. No extraneous content outside the tags of the highlighted content item is selected. Therefore the user is able to accurately and conveniently select a desired content item amongst other non desired content items.

Referring to as an alternative to the pop up menu shown in the Assisted Content Selection feature may include a Graphical Interface whereby the User may step up or down in a hierarchy of the current document to select a desired or preferred content item or group of content items.

As described above this feature is preferably initially activated by selecting an activation icon on the Main Toolbar which produces a temporary HTML border around the content item over which the pointing device is currently located.

A right click or another suitable predetermined function produces an Assisted Content Selection Graphic Interface operable to allow the user to step up and down in the hierarchy of the current document.

As shown in the Graphic Interface preferably includes a Slide Bar having a predetermined number of discrete positions between a first end position and a second end position which discrete positions correspond to hierarchical positions in the source code e.g. HTML of the document. The Graphic Interface may also include a Hierarchical Graphic comprising a series of Concentric Graphics such as squares one of which is highlighted or otherwise altered to indicate the relative hierarchical position of a currently selected content item .

In the first instance an innermost Concentric Graphic is highlighted to indicate the originally selected content item which is preferably the lowermost position in the selectable hierarchy. It can be appreciated however that the ability to step downwardly from the originally selected content item is within the scope of the present invention.

Further the Graphic Interface preferably includes a Text Label which indicates a type of the currently selected content item such as Table Cell as shown.

Referring to when the Slide Bar is moved to a second position the selected content item moves upwardly in the hierarchy of the document preferably one step.

If the previously selected content item was a table cell the system preferably next selects the entire column that comprises the cell as the currently selected content item . Since HTML pages typically do not include column objects or column tags the system preferably determines the column by analyzing the document. The details of this analysis are set forth below.

Upon movement of the Slide Bar to the second position a temporary border is placed around the currently selected item such as the column shown. In addition the Hierarchical Graphic is changed to indicate the relative position of the currently selected content item . Specifically a second Concentric Graphic is highlighted to indicate one step up from the originally selected content item. As discussed above if the previously selected content item was a table cell the next selected content item is preferably the column of the table cell which may be a virtual object defined by the system of the present invention.

Further the Text Label is preferably altered to indicate the type of the currently selected content item such as Table Column. 

At this point or any point in the selection process the user may select the currently selected content item by clicking an area of the Graphic Interface outside the Slide Bar area such as on the Hierarchical Graphic . Doing so initiates the procedure to add the selected content item to a new or existing Custom Selection Window as described above.

Referring to moving the Slide Bar further upward steps further upward in the document hierarchy. As depicted in if the previous content item was a table column the next selected content item is preferably a row of the originally selected table cell . Continuing upward as in if the previous content item was a table row the next selected content item is preferably the entire table.

As before movement of the Slide Bar induces changes in the temporary border Concentric Graphics and Text Label to indicate the identity position and type of the currently selected content item respectively.

Upon activation of the Enhanced Assisted Content Selection feature e.g. by right clicking on a content item around which a temporary border appears the system preferably analyzes the document to identify a series of objects within a predetermined number of steps in the document hierarchy from the originally selected content item. Specifically the system preferably analyzes the document to determine the currently selected content item and the next four objects above the currently selected content item in the document hierarchy. Preferably the system analyzes the document by inspecting the HTML tags of the objects.

If one of the analyzed objects is a table cell e.g. TD the next object is preferably set to be the column which includes the table cell. Further if one of the objects analyzed has a tag indicating that it is a table body e.g. TBODY this object is skipped and the next object is analyzed. During the analysis of the objects in the document the system stores a tag name of each object. Preferably the tag name is equal to or derived from the associated HTML tag in the document. If the object is a column the stored tag is preferably set to COL or another suitable distinctive tag.

After the analysis of the document is complete the system displays the Assisted Content Selection Graphic Interface in which the Slide Bar is in a lowermost position and Hierarchical Graphic is in an innermost position.

Upon movement of the Slide Bar by the User the system executes a predefined number of steps to step through the objects and the associated stored tags beginning with the originally selected content item.

If the current step is not beyond a current position of the Slide Bar the stored tag associated with the object of the current step is analyzed. If the current stored tag is equal to COL or another predetermined stored tag for columns a Column Flag is set to True. If the current stored tag is not equal to COL or the other predetermined stored tag for columns the Column Flag is set to False and a parent object is set as the current object. However if this parent object has an HTML tag of TBODY the parent of the parent object is selected.

If the current step is associated with i.e. has reached the current position of the Slide Bar the associated Concentric Graphic is activated i.e. turned on . Otherwise the associated Concentric Graphic is turned off. Then the next step in the series is executed until the predetermined number of steps have been completed.

Upon the completion of the series of steps the Text Label associated with the currently selected content item is updated and the temporary border is placed around the item associated with the current position of the Slide Bar .

If the currently selected content item is a column the temporary border is created around the column by selectively activating i.e. turning on the borders of certain edges of the table cells that comprise the column. Specifically the top right and left edges of the topmost cell are activated along with the bottom right and left edges of the bottommost cell and the left and right edges of any intermediate cells. This is effected by stepping through and modifying the properties of the cells of the column. This provides a contiguous border around the column to visually identify the column to the User.

The content items within each cell of the column are extracted for inclusion in a Custom Selection Window by first determining an index position of a reference cell within the column. This reference cell may be the originally selected content item or a cell selected via the Slide Bar . Next the system steps through each row of the associated table and extracts the content from each cell in the same index position as that of the reference cell. The extracted content may then be placed in a new table 1 column by N rows in a Custom Selection Window using the method described above for adding content items to a new or existing Custom Selection Window.

As set forth in the description of the Enhanced Content Selection feature above the system is operable to analyze objects in the hierarchical lineage of an initially selected content item or moused over content item and is operable to define a group of selectable objects in that lineage. The system is also operable produce a graphical alternate selection interface such as Slide Bar to permit the user to select an alternate content item in the lineage of the initially selected content item. Preferably the system creates a graphical selection indicator such as the temporary border which moves from the initially selected content item to the alternate content item upon the selection of an alternate content item by the user. Such graphical selection indicator may alternatively be a transparent or translucent overlay substantially immediately around or substantially coextensively over the content item.

When analyzing the document to identify and define the group of selectable objects in the document hierarchy the system preferably skips or excludes objects that are substantially visually identical or redundant to an immediate parent object. Preferably during the analysis the system compares the height and or width dimensions e.g. in pixels of the currently analyzed object to that of its parent object to determine if the differences in the corresponding height and or width dimensions are at least a predetermined value or values e.g. about 10 pixels . If the differences are less than the predetermined value s then the currently analyzed object is excluded from the group of selectable objects and the parent object is set to the currently analyzed object. This process is repeated until an object is found that is sufficiently different than its parent object. Once an object is found that is sufficiently different than its parent object such object is designated as a selectable object in the group of selectable objects and is represented by one of the positions on the Slide Bar described above.

It has been found that hierarchically sequential objects having differences in height or width dimensions of less than about 10 pixels are typically identical or nearly identical in appearance and content and thus appear the same to a user. An example of such similar appearing objects would be an image occupying an entire table cell. In such an instance the system would exclude the image object set the table cell object as the currently analyzed object and then analyze the next object in the document hierarchy. If the difference in the height and or width dimensions between the table cell and that next object are also less than the predetermined value then the table cell is also excluded and that next object is set as the currently analyzed object.

Also it has been found that of all of such apparently identical objects it is preferable to select the hierarchically uppermost such object as the selectable object to ensure that the content item selected contains all of the object attributes perceived by the user such as font and color attributes. However for efficiency purposes the first selectable content item is preferably the lowermost child object over which the pointing device is located when the initial content item is selected. Therefore the content item object associated with the first position of the Slide Bar may not be the hierarchically uppermost apparent identical object.

As described above during the analysis of the objects in the hierarchy of the web page document the system is operable to identify and then select columns and rows of tables. Preferably during the analysis the system excludes columns where the table has only one row and similarly excludes rows where the table has only one column. Such one row columns and one column rows are visually identical to the cell in the column row and are therefore redundant to the user. This is preferably accomplished by reading the table.children.length property for rows and the table.children 0 .children.length property for columns.

Referring to if a cell in the Sample 1 table is chosen the object associated with the first position of the Slide Bar would be the tag since this is the hierarchically lowermost object that the mouse is over when the initial selection is made. After the analysis the object associated with the second position of the Slide Bar would be the object because the column is excluded in the hierarchical analysis since there is only one column. Similarly if a cell in the Sample 2 table chosen the row is excluded since there is only one row.

If a cell in the Sample 3 table is chosen the object associated with the first position of the Slide Bar would be the tag. The object associated with the second position of the Slide Bar would be object because this is the next object above the first selected object that has sufficiently different dimensions than its parent object.

If a cell in the Sample 4 table is chosen the object associated with the first position of the Slide Bar would be the tag the object associated with the second position would be the parent cell and the object associated with the third position would be the parent table. As above the table row is skipped because there is only one row.

Referring to as an alternative to using the click and drag method of selecting multiple content items the system is preferably operable to select separate content items from different contiguous or non contiguous areas of a source web page by receiving and holding a first selection of one or more content items an then receiving and holding subsequent selections of content items contiguous or non contiguous with the first and any other previous selections until the user has selected all desired content items. Preferably each selection of content items is identified in the source web page by a graphic i.e. visual selection indicator such as a colored translucent overlays substantially coextensively over the selected content items and or a text overlay such as the indication Content Added to Clip as depicted or a similar indication. Alternatively such graphic selection indicator can be a border substantially immediately around the selected content item. Multiple graphic selection indicators are displayed simultaneously and are displayed until the user indicates that the selection process is complete to provide a clear indication of all of the non contiguous content items currently selected.

Preferably the system prohibits or rejects the selection of child objects and other inferior objects of previously selected objects in the hierarchy lineage of the source web page since the separate selection of such a child or inferior objects would be redundant. Similarly the system preferably discards any previously selected child or other inferior objects upon the selection of a parent or other superior object in the same lineage since the selection of the parent or superior object makes the previous selection of a child inferior object redundant. This redundancy check may be accomplished by comparing the unique handles of the objects encompassed by the newly selected content item to the handles of previously selected content items to see if there is a redundancy. Alternatively a suitable native function of the browser application may be employed if present such as the contains function of Windows Internet Explorer.

If a selection of a child or inferior object is discarded in favor of a selection of a parent or superior object in the same lineage the visual selection indicator associated with the discarded selection is preferably moved to indicate the selection of the parent or superior object.

The system preferably simultaneously displays multiple graphic selection indicators for all selected content items that are in different lineages until the user indicates that the selection process is complete. Upon receipt of an indication that the selection process is complete the system stores or saves a definition of the selected content items exclusive of non selected ones of the content items displayed in the source web page. The definition may be stored on the user computing device or on a remote computer connected to the network for retrieval at a later time. The definition includes the complete network addresses of the selected content items. Alternately the system is operable to display the multiple content items into an independent browser window.

Web browser applications commonly provide means for a user to store and organize a local list of bookmarks of web pages of interest locally on their computing device. Such local web page bookmarks include the url or network address of the web page and upon selecting one of such local web page bookmarks the browser application uses the stored url to re load the associated web page.

There also exist on line services that allow users to store similar web page bookmarks on a web server accessible over the Internet. Users may tag such on line web page bookmarks with keywords of their choosing which keywords are searchable by users via the web server which then produces a search result list of all such on line web page bookmarks tagged with the keyword or keywords.

The system of the present invention provides a significant improvement over the prior local and online web page bookmarks described above by allowing users to create and tag specific content items in web pages with a keyword or keywords store a definition of the content item along with the keyword s and then search the stored definitions using search keywords. Thus the system provides the ability to create and search novel and heretofore unknown Content Marks. In essence what a prior on line web page bookmark does only for an entire web page a Content Mark of the present invention does for a specific content item of a web page.

The system allows the user to create such Content Marks in a convenient manner without leaving the source web page of the selected content item. Generally to create a Content Mark the user first selects the desired content item tags it with relevant keywords of their choosing and saves it on a designated on line web server such as the web server at www.clipmarks.com and or on a local computing device. Each Content Mark is saved in the individual user s personal keyword searchable collection on the designated on line web server.

The specific content items are preferably selected according to any of the content selection methods described above. Accordingly upon selection of a content item the system preferably creates and stores a definition of the content item which definition includes a complete network address of the selected content item if the content item is file based and the keyword s entered by the user to tag the Content Mark. Additionally the system may receive from the user and store further user entered information with respect to the Content Mark such as a title and a description of the Content Mark. Optionally the system may permit the user to perform an advanced search of stored Content Marks using any combination of keywords titles descriptions and or any text within a selected content item.

A major improvement that the system provides over current technology is the ability to easily retain organize and find the specific content items in web pages which for example could be the sixth paragraph of a long article a quotation from a long blog post or a photograph embedded in an otherwise cluttered page. Instead of bookmarking the entire page and then trying to remember and find what on that page was of interest to the user the Content Marks of the present system allow a user to select and rapidly recall the specific content items of interest. Significantly by enabling users to tag each Content Mark with relevant keywords the system facilitates a high level of personal content organization that has not been realized before.

The system includes an Enhanced Multiple Clip Mode which is in accordance with and is an improvement over the Multiple Clip Mode described above. Specifically the Enhance Multiple Clip Mode allows users to select a group of content items from disparate source web pages loaded within a single instance of a browser application or separate instances of a browser application. Preferably the Enhanced Multiple Clip Mode is operable by default when the user activates the content selection functionality of the system such as by clicking on an Activation Icon displayed in a Main Toolbar and remains operable for all instances of a browser application until the selection process is complete or the feature is de activated.

Certain browser applications such as the Firefox browser application from Mozilla allow a user to have a plurality of disparate web pages loaded concurrently within a single instance of the browser application and allow a user to rapidly switch between display a desired one of the concurrently loaded web pages by selecting a Browser Tab associated with the desired web page.

While the example below illustrates the selection of a group of content items from disparate source web pages loaded concurrently in a single instance of a browser application using Browser Tabs the system is also operable for a selection of such content items from disparate source web pages loaded consecutively i.e. one after the other either by selecting bookmarks typing in a url or any other means of consecutively loading source web pages in a single instance of a browser application or loaded in separate instances of the browser application.

Referring to and following the example in the description of the Multiple Clip Mode above if a user is doing research on outsourcing to China a user may concurrently load first and second web pages in a browser application which web pages may be selectively displayed by selecting first and second Browser Tabs respectively. The user may select a first content item in the first web page according to any of the content selection methods described above. Preferably such selection is made in accordance with the Further Enhanced Content Selection method described above whereby the system presents an Assisted Content Selection Graphical Interface with a Slide Bar which allows the user to step up and down in the hierarchical lineage of the initially selected content item. Referring to when the desired content item is selected the system preferably displays a Graphical Selection Indicator as described above over the selected content item .

Referring to the user may display the second web page by selecting the associated Browser Tab in the browser application and may select a second content item in the manner described above. Upon such selection the system displays a Graphical Selection Indicator over the second content item .

Importantly upon the display of the second web page and upon the receipt of the selection of the second content item the system retains the selection of the first content item . Further if the first web page is still loaded in a browser tab or window the system retains the Graphical Selection Indicator over the first selected content item . Thus after selection of the second content item the user may return to the tab or window in which the first web page is loaded to confirm or remove the first content item and or to select further content items without losing any of the previous selections.

Referring to if desired the user may select a third content item such as a string of text by performing a click and drag operation over the desired string. While in this example the third selection is a string of text the system is also operable to receive a click and drag selection of a contiguous group of content items such as a group including one or more images and a string of text. Upon the receipt of the selection of the third content item the system retains the selections of the first and second content items . As can be appreciated this third selection may be made from the first or second web page or from a third web page. In this manner the user is able to select a plurality of content items from several different web pages.

Upon the selection of at least one content item the system preferably activates a Save Icon in the Main Toolbar which permits the user to save a definition of the selected content item s as described above. In addition the Save Icon is preferably activated upon a mouseup event if a click and drag operation has been made by the user which permits the user to select a single content item consisting of a string of text.

At this point in the above example the user may save a single definition containing a definition of the first second and third content items by selecting the Save Icon . As described above the definition includes the complete network location for all selected content items and if a selected content item is a file based content item e.g. an image or rich media etc. the definition includes the complete network location of the file based content item whether the content item is defined in the original web page by an absolute network location e.g. absolute url or by a base reference e.g. base href and a relative network location e.g. relative url .

In the case that the selection is a contiguous group of content items the definition includes the base href of the original web page and the HTML source code defining the content items in the contiguous group. Thus the definition includes all information necessary to recreate and or reload the content items.

Referring to upon selection of the Save Icon the system preferably displays a Content Mark Save Interface such as that described above with respect to the Content Marks feature of the system which interface includes a Preview Area of the three selected content items . If the selected content items require more space than is provided by the Preview Area the Preview Area preferably includes a scroll bar which permits the user to preview all selected content items. In the present example the first content item is displayed when the scroll bar is at the top the second content item is displayed when the scroll bar is at the midpoint and the third content item is displayed when the scroll bar is at the bottom .

Referring to in accordance with the Content Marks the user is able to enter keyword s or Tags a Title and or a Description Comments for the definition and then save search retrieve and re create the definition.

Preferably the definition of the selected content items is in an Extended Markup Language XML format such as in the sample definition presented in Table AD below.

The XML definition of Table AD defines three content items. The first content item is an image item fox1.gif and the second and third content items are table cell objects About Mozilla and Career Opportunities with the Mozilla Foundation . As described above these content items may have been selected from the same or different web pages.

Preferably the definition includes separate element sections for each content item in the definition. Such element sections may be defined by a pair of tags as depicted. Within each element section the definition preferably includes tags related to attributes of the source web page of the associated content item such as the of the source web page if one is present protocol e.g. http host e.g. www.google.com path e.g. page e.g. firefox and query e.g. client firefox a rls org.mozilla en US official .

Further within each section the definition preferably includes tags related to specific attributes of the associated content item such as the network location of the content item e.g. an absolute or relative url if the content item is a file based content item. The network location may be assigned to a tag for example the network location of the first content item fox1.gif defined in the above definition is the absolute network location http www.google.com images firefox fox1.gif. Preferably for file based content items defined in the source web page by a relative network location e.g. a relative url the system uses the base href of the source web page to determine the complete network location e.g. absolute url of the content item when loading the content item. Alternatively for such file based items defined by relative urls the system may place the relative url in the definition by combining the base href and relative url of the content item. Other specific attributes of the content item in the definition may be the alternative name e.g. Firefox logo height width and other attributes.

The inclusion of the base href if any and network location within each element section provides the ability to define a plurality of file based content items from disparate source web pages within a single definition whether such file based content items are defined in the source web pages by absolute or relative network locations.

While the Enhanced Multiple Clip Mode feature is particularly suitable for use in conjunction with the Content Marks feature of the system it is also suitable for use with other features of the system such as with the Custom Selection Window feature described above whereby selected content items are loaded into and displayed in individual frames in an independent browser window.

Further content items selected using the Enhanced Multiple Clip Mode feature of the system or any combination of selection methods of the system may be copied partially or entirely into a general purpose paste buffer of the operating system or a special purpose paste buffer dedicated to the system on the user s computing device for later transfer to one or more target documents of another application such as a word processing document spreadsheet web page or other suitable target document. Preferably in this instance after identification of the desired selected content items is complete the system uses the definition of the selected content items to load the selected content items from their original network locations obtained during the selection process and stores copies the selected content items in the paste buffer for later transfer.

If such paste buffer is a general purpose paste buffer of the operating system such as a clipboard of the operating system then the selected content items may be transferred copied into a target document on the user s computing device in a single step using an inherent paste function of the operating system. Preferably once the selected content items are loaded into such a general purpose paste buffer they remain in such buffer until the buffer is cleared or overwritten such that they may be transferred into any number of target documents.

Alternatively the system may include downloadable plug in applications tailored for certain target applications e.g. word processors and spreadsheets web page creators etc. that transfer the selected content items to the target documents. Preferably for file based content items such plug in applications load the selected file based content items directly from the original network locations of the content items using the complete network address in the definition of the selected content items. Such loading may occur when and each time the user directs the system to copy a selected content item to a target document such that the transferred content item s need not pass through or reside in an intermediate paste buffer. Alternatively the plug in application can interface with a general or special purpose paste buffer whereby content items are first loaded into such buffer and then transferred using the plug in application to the target document.

Such plug in applications preferably enable the user to selectively transfer all or certain ones of the selected content items to the target document and enable the user to direct each transferred content item or certain ones to a different user specified location in the target document such as a specific table row or cell or other such specific location. Preferably the user may identify the user specified location by input through the user pointing device e.g. a mouse or other input device in the target document.

To identify the selected content items to be transferred the system may employ a shift register strategy to sequentially transfer the selected content items into the target document. In this manner a content item designated as a top selected content item is transferred first to a first location specified by the user. Then the remaining selected content items are moved upward in the register or a suitable pointer is moved such that the second content item selected by the user is designated as the top content item to permit the user to transfer it to the next specified location. Preferably the first content item selected by the user is initially designated as the top content item such that the content items are transferred in order of their selection. However it is within the scope of the invention that the last content item selected by the user is initially designated as the top content item and that the selected content items are transferred in reverse order. Further preferably the system enables the user to skip i.e. not transfer certain selected content items and enables to the user to loop through the selected content items again such that each content item may be transferred multiple times.

Alternatively for applications that support the pasting of HTML tables such as Microsoft Excel the system may receive an initial target document location from the user and then transfer each selected content item to a separate cell in the target document for example in a common row or column.

Referring to in addition to or instead of saving a definition of the selection the system is operable to send the selected content items to a printer accessible by the user computing device. Preferably a Print Icon see is activated in the Main Toolbar upon the selection of at least one content item or upon a mouseup event if a click and drag operation has been made by user.

As described above during the selection process the system compiles a selection definition of the selected content items which selection definition includes all of the information necessary to recreate the selected content items such as the complete network location of each selected file based content item. Using the selection definition the system creates a printable definition or printable document that is compatible with sent to and produced by the printer.

Referring to selection of the Print Icon produces a Print Dialog Window that includes a Print Preview Window displaying all of the selected content items and the complete network location url for each source web page. The Print Dialog Window also includes boxes for entering a Title and Remarks which preferably appear in the Print Preview Window in real time as they are entered by the user. The Print Dialog Window also includes a Print button which when selected sends the printable definition to the printer function of the operating system of the user computing device. As depicted in this preferably results in a printer dialog window which allows the user to direct the printable definition to a desired printer.

The system preferably loads each selected file based content item from its original network location during creation of the printable definition. As can be appreciated content items fully defined by the selection definition need not be re loaded during creation of the printable definition but are preferably transferred from the selection definition to the printable definition. In this manner the user is provided the powerful and heretofore unavailable ability to print a collection of specific content items from disparate web pages in a rapid and convenient manner.

Referring to the system includes a blog posting feature whereby content items selected using any one or more of the above content selection methods may be easily and conveniently posted to one or more web logs of the user commonly known as blogs .

This feature enables users to select text images video etc. from one or more web page s using the content selection methods including click and drag described above and then click a Send to Blog button in the Main Toolbar. The user can then enter their blogging service along with their username and password and then post the selected content items directly to their blog. The user may also give a title and add remarks to their blog post. Once a user s blog account information is entered one time it can be saved so that the user need not enter the information each time. This allows users to clip select and then post selected content items from any web page s directly to their blog or other web site without ever leaving the page they are on. Included with the content that is sent to the blog is a link to the source page. This link is automatically included in the blog post.

The system provides a Blog icon see in the Main Toolbar on the computing device of the user which icon is preferably activated when any content item or items are selected via the system or via click and drag as described above. When the user selects the Blog icon the system presents a blog credentials entry interface see which permits the user to enter the credentials necessary to locate identify and access the user s blog s including the type of blog i.e. the service provider name the username and password for the associated user account at the service provider and the url for the blog. Preferably the blog credentials entry interface also permits the user to save the blog credentials locally on their computing device and or remotely on a server for the system such that the credentials information need only be entered once for each blog the user may have.

Optionally if the user has previously saved credentials information for one or more blogs such blogs are displayed in a list not shown that permits the user to select which blog s should receive the post. For example the list may provide check boxes such that the user may send the post to multiple blogs simultaneously. Logging onto the system is optional however a user account and authentication login is required to save blog credentials and to retrieve use blog credentials saved remotely on the system server. User login to the system can be automated such that the user need only key in their authentication information one time and the use is auto reauthenticated whenever they launch their browser application. For example the system may save a unique browser cookie on the computing device of the user having a long lifetime e.g. 10 years which is used to uniquely identify the user to the system or by other suitable methods.

After completing the entry or selection of the blog credentials information the system provides a blog post preview interface see similar to the preview interfaces described above which permits the user to enter and modify the contents of the post including a title and the content of any selected text content items. Text content items and or image and rich media content items are displayed in a preview pane to allow the user to confirm the selected content items before transmitting the post. Optionally the blog post preview interface may permit the user to remove any content item prior to posting including text images and rich media content items. Further the blog post interface preferably displays a list of the blog s selected to receive the post and permit the user de select any blog and or select add further blogs.

As described above the system preferably presents the user with the blog credentials entry interface prior to the blog preview interface. Alternatively the system may present the blog preview interface first and then the blog credentials entry interface or may combine the two in one interface or may divide the interfaces into further separate interfaces.

Optionally the system may enable the user to post previously saved custom selections of content items to web logs which may be saved according to the methods and features described above. In this case the system enables the user to access login to the system and select a previously saved custom selection and provides an interface or suitable icon which permits the user to enter select blog credential information and to preview and modify the blog post and receiving blogs as described above.

Once the user is satisfied with the contents of the blog post and the receiving blogs the user selects a Post to Blog icon which transmits a definition of the content items selected by the user to the system server along with the blog credentials.

After the definition of the selected content items and the user s blog credentials are submitted to the system server the system server makes a series of requests to the corresponding blog s servers usually 1 to 3 requests depending on the service . The protocol that is used to communicate between the servers is preferably XML RPC a type of XML designed to call a remote method on a remote server. Blogger API and Movable Type are industry standard XML RPC based API s for interacting with blogs. Most blog services make use of one of these API s however they each have subtle differences in the way that data formatting is handled. The system operator predetermines and provides the system with the current formats necessary to communicate with various blog servers and the system employs the associated current data format when communicating with a particular blog server.

Following an initial request sending a user s name and password to the blog service by the system server a list of information about a user s blog is returned typically in XML format. The system server then parses this returned XML for information that is necessary to submit the post in a subsequent request. Most blog services either return a BLOG ID or a special POST URL which is required for post submission. Once this BLOG ID or POST URL is obtained the system server formats an XML blog post using the appropriate data format complete with an HTML definition of the content items selected by the user as described above and posts this to the POST URL of the blog service. A final status code is returned by the blog service indicating success or failure of the post. Preferably the system server uses server side VB .NET to post and receive XML to the blog services and POST Requests and responses occur as byte streams.

Below is a detailed example of blog submission XML code using wordpress.com. Note that APPLICATION KEY is not required for wordpress.com and so is not provided. However APPLICATION KEY may be required for other blog servers. Text in ALL CAPS indicates specific user blog data sent by the system server in the request. The requests below are suitable for submission to http wordpress.com xmlrpc.php which is the service end point for wordpress.com s API.

Sample request 1 using Blogger API This XML requests the BLOG ID from Wordpress and other information associated with each blog belonging to a user account.

Sample response 1 from wordpress All text labeled VALUE indicates user blog specific data returned to the system server from wordpress.com. Many nodes can be returned each representing one blog owned by the user account. For an account with blog the response would appear as below with one node containing information about the one blog. In order to determine which BLOG ID to capture when multiple blogs are returned the system server parses the returned data and compares and matches the data associated with the url tag with the blog url that the user supplied.

Sample Request 2 uses the same POST URL but uses metaWebLog API newPost with the BLOG ID returned from the previous request. Everything between the HTMl comments and represents the HTML of the blog post created by system server. The system server creates this post by combining the user supplied blog post title with the body of the clip they are blogging i.e. with the selected content items . The body of the clip is retrieved from a system server database and stored as a string. A link back to the clip and to the home page for the system server are also added to the end of the Post Body.

Step 2 Response successfully posted value returned is the BLOG POST ID for this post. Note that HTTP status code pf 200 is always returned by blog service if post was successful 

While as described above it is preferable that the system server is employed to format the blog post authenticate the user to the blog server and transmit the blog post the computing device of the user may be employed to perform some or all of these steps. In this case the plug in for the computing device of the user would have code and or data sufficient to perform the above steps such as the current data format necessary to communicate with the receiving blog servers or would receive such code and or data from the server as necessary and or on a periodic basis.

Referring to if the post was successful the system displays a post confirmation interface which preferably provides links to allow the user to view the blog s to which the post was transmitted to save the custom selection of content items on the system server and or to email or print the custom selection.

Referring to upon selection of the link to view the receiving blog the blog web page is loaded in the browser application on the computing device of the user showing the recent post.

It should be understood of course that the specific form of the invention herein illustrated and described is intended to be representative only as certain changes may be made therein without departing from the clear teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly reference should be made to the following appended claims in determining the full scope of the invention.

