---

title: Carrier configuration at activation
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable medium for providing telecommunications carrier configuration at activation of a mobile device. In one implementation, a method is provided. The method includes receiving a request for activation of a mobile device, and during activation of the mobile device, determining for the mobile device a telecommunications carrier from a number of telecommunications carriers, and identifying information associated with the determined telecommunications carrier for configuring the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442521&OS=08442521&RS=08442521
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08442521
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080902
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 969 924 filed Sep. 4 2007 and entitled Carrier Configuration at Activation the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Modern mobile devices can provide a number of telecommunications services including telephony service short messing service SMS and e mail communication service. Conventional mobile devices with telephony applications are configured for a particular telecommunications carrier. Typically both the software and the hardware of these mobile devices are configured for a particular carrier prior to activation of the mobile device. For example carrier specific configuration of the software requires separate software builds for each telecommunications carrier that will be supported by the mobile device increasing the total development time of the mobile device with the addition of each carrier. Carrier specific configuration of mobile device hardware occurs at the time the mobile device is manufactured. For example radio boards in mobile devices are provisioned to only operate with smart cards associated with a particular telecommunications carrier. Device configuration at the manufacturing stage requires at least one factory line for each telecommunications carrier supported by the mobile device. In addition a user of a conventional mobile device is limited to using the mobile device with the particular telecommunications carrier for which the mobile device was configured. If the user wishes to switch to a different telecommunications carrier the user would need a separate mobile device specifically configured for the desired carrier.

A technique method apparatus and system are described to provide telecommunications carrier configuration at activation of a mobile device. In general in one aspect a method is provided. The method includes receiving a request for activation of a mobile device and during activation of the mobile device determining for the mobile device a telecommunications carrier from a number of telecommunications carriers and identifying information associated with the determined telecommunications carrier for configuring the mobile device.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. The method can further include during activation of the mobile device transmitting to the mobile device the identified information associated with the determined telecommunications carrier for configuring the mobile device. The method can further include transmitting a request for activation of a mobile device and during activation of the mobile device receiving information associated with a telecommunications carrier and configuring the mobile device using the received information. The mobile device can be a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a smart phone an EGPRS mobile phone or a media player. Configuring the mobile device can include configuring a software stack of the mobile device or configuring a radio board of the mobile device. The mobile device can include a multi touch sensitive display.

In one aspect a method is provided. The method includes receiving a request to reconfigure a mobile device that is configured based on a first telecommunications carrier determining for the mobile device a second telecommunications carrier from a number of telecommunications carriers and identifying information associated with the determined second telecommunications carrier for reconfiguring the mobile device.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. The method can further include transmitting to the mobile device the identified information associated with the determined second telecommunications carrier for reconfiguring the mobile device. The request to reconfigure the mobile device can include an identifier for a smart card installed in the mobile device and determining the second telecommunications carrier can include determining that the smart card identifier is associated with the second telecommunications carrier.

In one aspect a method is provided. The method includes transmitting a request to reconfigure a mobile device that is configured based on a first telecommunications carrier receiving information associated with a second telecommunications carrier and reconfiguring the mobile device using the received information.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. Reconfiguring the mobile device can include reconfiguring a software stack of the mobile device or reconfiguring one or more hardware components of the mobile device. The request to reconfigure can be transmitted in response to detecting that a first smart card installed in the mobile device is replaced with a second smart card. The method can further include notifying one or more applications on the mobile device of the replacement of the first smart card with the second smart card. The method can further include reconfiguring one or more applications on the mobile device based on the received information associated with the second telecommunications carrier.

In one aspect a system is provided. The system includes an access device and a mobile device coupled to the access device wherein the mobile device is configured to transmit to the access device a request for activation of the mobile device and during activation of the mobile device receive from the access device information associated with a first telecommunications carrier and configure the mobile device using the received information associated with the first telecommunications carrier.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. The access device can be configured to receive from the mobile device the request for activation of the mobile device and during activation of the mobile device determine for the mobile device the first telecommunications carrier from a number of telecommunications carriers identify information associated with the first telecommunications carrier for configuring the mobile device and transmit to the mobile device the information associated with the first telecommunications carrier for configuring the mobile device. The information associated with the first telecommunications carrier can indicate or include one or more settings for the first telecommunications carrier which should be enabled on the mobile device. The request for activation of the mobile device can include an identifier for the mobile device and an identifier for a first smart card installed in the mobile device and the first telecommunications carrier can be associated with the identifier for the first smart card.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. The mobile device can be further configured to detect when the first smart card installed in the mobile device is replaced with a second smart card and in response to the detected replacement of the first smart card with the second smart card transmit to the access device a request to reconfigure the mobile device. The access device can be further configured to receive from the mobile device the request to reconfigure the mobile device determine for the mobile device a second telecommunications carrier from the number of telecommunications carriers identify information associated with the second telecommunications carrier for reconfiguring the mobile device and transmit to the mobile device the information associated with the second telecommunications carrier for reconfiguring the mobile device. The mobile device can be further configured to receive the information associated with the second telecommunications carrier and reconfigure the mobile device using the received information associated with the second telecommunications carrier. Reconfiguring the mobile device can further include reconfiguring one or more hardware components or a software stack of the mobile device. The mobile device can include a multi touch sensitive display.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Differentiation of mobile devices for particular telecommunications carriers can be postponed until the activation stage. Generic software is used to configure mobile devices for any number of telecommunication carriers in any number of countries reducing total software development time. Generic hardware on a mobile device reduces the need for customization and differentiated inventory at the manufacturer. The generic software and hardware can self configure for a particular telecommunications carrier when the mobile device is activated.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM general packet radio service GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display which can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user. In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a music processing device as indicated by the music player object a video processing device as indicated by the video player object a digital photo album device as indicated by the photos object and a network data communication device for online shopping as indicated by the store object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the music player object the video player object the photos object and store object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface of mobile device can include additional display objects such as the Web object the calendar object the address book object the clock object the calculator object and the settings object described above with reference to mobile device of . In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include other display objects such as a Web video object that provides functionality for uploading and playing videos on the Web. Each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user. In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and a volume control device sensor devices and wireless communication subsystems and and a port device or some other wired port connection described above with reference to mobile device of .

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device or is intended to operate. For example a mobile device or may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device or may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device or on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device or can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device or can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device or may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device or may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device or and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device or . When the mobile device or is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device or including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services for applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone music player video player photos and store .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . In some implementations a device activation process can be used as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 447 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Device Activation and Access which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc. Another example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPhone product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the access device using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connection status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

The mobile device and possibly other similar mobile devices are manufactured at device factory . Unlike conventional mobile devices the mobile device is not manufactured with carrier specific software. Configuration of generic software on the mobile device for any of a number of telecommunications carriers can be postponed to a point after the mobile device has been manufactured. For example if Carriers A B and C can be supported by the mobile device the mobile device produced by the device factory will have generic software which can be configured for Carrier A Carrier B or Carrier C when the mobile device is activated as will be described in more detail below.

In some implementations if Carriers A B and C will be supported the generic software can include a set of carrier specific settings or default values for each of Carriers A B and C. In some implementations the generic software does not include carrier specific settings for any telecommunications carrier. In this implementation when a user purchases the mobile device carrier specific settings for a particular telecommunications carrier selected by the user can be provided to accessed by the mobile device upon activation.

In some implementations the mobile device is manufactured with carrier specific hardware. Communications hardware components e.g. components in wireless communication subsystem of in a mobile device can be provisioned to only work with memory devices e.g. smart cards or integrated circuit cards ICC associated with a particular telecommunications carrier. Generally memory devices hereinafter referred to generically as smartcards can be used to allow users to change mobile devices. A smart card can include personal as well as system configuration information. Removing the smart card from one mobile device and inserting the smart card into another mobile device allows a user to easily change mobile devices. As described above some smart cards can store carrier specific information used to authenticate and identify subscribers on the carrier network. Examples of a smart card for the mobile device can include a Subscriber Identity Module SIM a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC and a Removable User Identity Module RUIM . A smart card for mobile devices can have a serial number e.g. an International Circuit Card ID ICCID an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI an Authentication Key Ki or a Local Area Identity LAI which uniquely identifies the smart card. Typically the unique serial number can also identify a particular telecommunications carrier associated with the smart card. In one example radio boards in conventional mobile devices are provisioned to only operate with SIM cards with an ICCID that identifies a particular telecommunications carrier. In effect a radio board can be locked to a particular telecommunications carrier.

In some implementations the mobile device is manufactured with generic hardware. That is communications hardware components e.g. components in wireless communication subsystem of in the mobile device can be manufactured to work with a smart card or ICC associated with any of a number of telecommunications carriers. For example a radio board in the mobile device can be provisioned to operate with SIM cards with an ICCID that is associated with any of the telecommunications carriers supported by the mobile device . In some implementations the radio board in the mobile device can be manufactured to operate with any smart card for a given communication protocol regardless of the particular telecommunications carrier associated with the smart card.

In the first example scenario the mobile device is manufactured in device factory and shipped for consumer sale to a retail outlet for Carrier A. A notice that the mobile device was shipped to a Carrier A outlet is sent to a device operational repository . The device operational repository can be for example a database that stores information about the mobile device and other devices. In some implementations the information associated with the mobile device can be indexed in the device operational repository by an identifier for the mobile device . For example the mobile device can be uniquely identified by a serial number or an identifier e.g. an IMEI stored in the device memory in . A unique identifier for the mobile device which can be included in the notice from the device factory can be further included in a message concerning the mobile device sent from the device operational repository .

Typically when a device is shipped for consumer sale to an outlet for a particular telecommunications carrier the carrier will only offer to sell the device for use on the particular carrier s telecommunications network. For example a user who purchases the mobile device at the Carrier A outlet will generally receive a smart card associated with Carrier A for use with the mobile device . Consequently the device operational repository can store information that associates the mobile device with a smart card or the particular smart card associated with Carrier A. This information can be used to determine the carrier specific capabilities e.g. wireless network service within range of certain wireless access points of the mobile device and on which network e.g. the Carrier A network the mobile device will operate.

The device operational repository can forward information associated with the mobile device to a mobile services application . In the first example scenario the device operational repository sends a notice to the mobile services application indicating that the mobile device has installed a removable smart card that is associated with Carrier A. The notice can include for example an identifier for the mobile device e.g. an IMEI and an identifier for the smart card e.g. an ICCID .

In the first example scenario after the user purchases the mobile device from the Carrier A outlet and the smart card associated with Carrier A is installed in the mobile device the user can activate the mobile device by for example connecting the mobile device to an access device e.g. access device of to access a mobile services application . The mobile device can be connected e.g. tethered to an access device by a physical connection e.g. a cable connected to USB ports or through a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . In some implementations after a secure session e.g. an SSL session is established between the mobile device and the access device e.g. a personal computer the mobile services application e.g. the iTunes client is automatically invoked and directs the user to an activation service e.g. activation service of for the mobile device . Early in the activation process the mobile device can send e.g. automatically an activation request to the mobile services application . In some implementations the activation request includes both a unique identifier e.g. an IMEI for the mobile device and a unique identifier e.g. an ICCID for the installed smart card.

In some implementations the user is required to create an account through the mobile services application before the user is provided with one or more remote services provided by one or more remote service providers e.g. carrier services content portals or websites . After a user account is established through the mobile services application the user can create one or more accounts with the individual remote service providers e.g. Carrier A .

The mobile services application sends an authentication request for mobile device to an activation service that includes Carrier A account repository . The authentication request can include information received from the mobile device in the activation request. For example the authentication request can include the unique identifier for the mobile device and the unique identifier for the smart card. In some implementations the authentication request includes further information e.g. information received from the device operational repository .

In some implementations the activation service maintains a relational database or registry e.g. MySQL of user information ICCIDs IMEI and any other information needed to authenticate a user and to provide activation services. In some implementations Carrier A account repository is part of this activation service database or registry. Using the database or registry the activation service knows for example that a particular mobile device e.g. mobile device with a particular IMEI with a particular SIM card was purchased by a particular user on a particular date and that a particular carrier e.g. Carrier A is providing one or more services to the user and the activation date of those services.

In some implementations the foregoing information known by the activation service can be compared with the information received in the authentication request from the mobile services application for purposes of authenticating the user to ensure that the user requesting the activation service is the true owner of the mobile device and or an authorized subscriber of Carrier A s telecommunications services.

If the information included in the authentication request matches the information associated with the mobile device in the Carrier A Account Repository the activation service can transmit an authorization for device to the mobile services application . The authorization can allow the user access to one or more telecommunications services using the Carrier A network.

The activation service can generate an activation record specific to the mobile device which can be sent to the mobile device from the mobile services application . In some implementations the activation record can include the unique identifiers for the mobile device and the smart card. The activation record can be used by the mobile device to complete the activation process for example by verifying that the identifiers in the activation record match the identifiers for the mobile device and the installed smart card.

During the activation process information regarding the carrier is exchanged between the mobile device and the mobile services application and the mobile device is configured accordingly. For example the mobile device can receive data from the mobile services application that specifies how generic software stored therein should be configured for the particular telecommunications carrier associated with the smart card. The received data can specify that the set of carrier specific settings or default values associated with the particular telecommunications carrier e.g. Carrier A should be enabled while the sets of carrier specific settings or default values for all other supported telecommunications carriers should be disabled.

In some implementations if the carrier specific settings are later cleared from the mobile device e.g. the mobile device is deactivated and device functionality is locked the user can re activate the mobile device by for example repeating the activation process in the same general manner as described above. The mobile services application or the activation service can recognize that the mobile device has already been activated with the same smart card e.g. by verifying the IMEI and the ICCID with information in the relational database . In some implementations when the identifiers are verified the mobile services application can send the mobile device data e.g. the set of carrier specific settings to enable the mobile device to self configure for a second time for the particular telecommunications carrier.

In some implementations one or more carrier specific settings are sent to the mobile device during or just after activation. These carrier specific settings can be pushed from the mobile services application to the mobile device or pulled by the mobile device using the wired and or wireless networks . For example if the generic software on the mobile device includes a set of carrier specific settings for each of Carriers A B and C and the user installs a smart card associated with Carrier D the set of carrier specific settings for Carrier D can be sent to the mobile device during activation. The generic software on the mobile device can then self configure for Carrier D for example by enabling the received set of Carrier D specific settings and disabling the sets of settings specific to Carriers A B and C.

In some implementations when the radio board is not provisioned for a particular telecommunications carrier when the mobile device is manufactured the radio board is configured at activation for the telecommunications carrier associated with the smart card installed in the mobile device . For example the radio board can be provisioned at activation to only work with the smart card e.g. as identified by an ICCID presently installed in the mobile device . In effect this provides a lock on the radio board and consequently a lock on the mobile device until the mobile device is re activated with a different smart card as described in more detail below.

In the second example scenario the mobile device is manufactured in the device factory and shipped for consumer sale to a device retail outlet for Carriers A B and C . Unlike the Carrier A outlet of example scenario the device retail outlet for Carriers A B and C might offer to sell the mobile device for use on any of Carrier A s network Carrier B s network and Carrier C s network. In the present example the user of the mobile device purchases the mobile device for use on Carrier A s network e.g. by purchasing the mobile device with a smart card associated with Carrier A. In another scenario the user purchases the mobile device with a smart card associated with a different telecommunications carrier e.g. Carrier B or Carrier C and the mobile device is later configured at activation for the chosen carrier.

A notice that the mobile device was purchased with a smart card associated with Carrier A is sent from the device retail outlet for Carriers A B and C to the Carrier A Account Repository . In some implementations a unique identifier e.g. an IMEI for the mobile device and a unique identifier e.g. an ICCID for the smart card can be included in the notice from the device retail outlet for Carriers A B and C .

After the user purchases the mobile device from the device retail outlet for Carriers A B and C and the smart card associated with Carrier A is installed in the mobile device the user can activate the mobile device in the second example scenario in the same general manner as described above with respect to the first example scenario .

Configuration of the mobile device using the carrier specific settings can include configuring a number of telecommunications applications. For example if Carrier A will provide voicemail e mail or other data services to the mobile device e.g. using EDGE or GPRS communications protocol the applications residing on the mobile device to support these services will be configured at activation using the carrier specific settings.

Different telecommunications carriers may have one or more different wireless access points providing wireless network access e.g. Wi Fi in certain locations e.g. airports public buildings hotels restaurants and retail outlets. In some implementations the mobile device can be configured using the carrier specific settings to automatically connect to a network when the mobile device is within the coverage range of these wireless access points. Some telecommunications carriers vary the services supported or features of supported services depending on where e.g. a home zone a mobile device is presently located. In some implementations the mobile device can be configured using the carrier specific settings to automatically enable zone specific features or services when the mobile device is located in a particular zone.

In some implementations carrier specific settings are used to configure the way a mobile device displays carrier account information to the user. For example subscriber account information e.g. account bill balance number of minutes remaining etc. can be accessed by navigating one or more menus e.g. for settings phone carrier service etc. on the mobile device . The presentation of account information can vary based on the telecommunications carrier and the specific set of supported services purchased by the user. In some implementations one or more of the carrier specific settings can be manually modified by the user for example by changing preference settings or navigating the one or more menus to access the subscriber account information on the mobile device .

In some implementations configuration of the mobile device includes using the carrier specific settings to configure certain settings or defaults for other applications on the mobile device . In one example carrier specific configuration can include setting one or more bookmarks e.g. for the telecommunications carrier s main web page for the web browsing application accessible by selection of the Web object . In another example one or more default stocks e.g. the telecommunications carrier s stock can be configured for display when the user accesses a stock quote application for example by selecting the stocks object FIG. A . In a third example a default home page e.g. the telecommunications carrier s services web page can be configured for display when the user accesses an online shopping application for example by selecting the store object .

In some implementations the carrier specific settings can include settings specific to the country or region in which the mobile device will be operated. For example different countries may support service for TDD TTY Telecommunications Device for the Deaf teletypewriter using different TTY protocols. In another example different countries may have different limits on the volume level of audio output from a speaker of a mobile telephony device. In some implementations when the mobile device is configured at activation the mobile device is automatically configured with country specific or region specific settings which are included in the carrier specific settings. In some implementations in addition to software configuration control as described above hardware configuration e.g. radio power levels audio output levels etc. can also be controlled at activation.

During the activation process for the mobile device the access device can determine for the mobile device a telecommunications carrier from a number of telecommunications carriers . For example if the mobile device was purchased from a device retail outlet for Carriers A B C the access device can determine that the mobile device will operate on telecommunications Carrier A s network for example based on the smart card received by the user for use with the mobile device .

A request is sent for authentication of the mobile device for use on the network of the determined telecommunications carrier . In some implementations the request is sent from a mobile services application running on the access device. The authentication request can be sent to an activation service or to the determined telecommunications carrier. In some implementations the activation service receiving the authentication request is specific to the determined telecommunications carrier. In other implementations the activation service receiving the authentication request is a generic activation service for multiple telecommunications carriers.

During activation of the mobile device if authorization is not received for the mobile device to operate on the determined telecommunications carrier s network No branch of decision the mobile device can be notified that the authorization was denied . In some implementations the carrier determination process can then be terminated and or other action can be taken e.g. automatically restarting the process .

During activation of the mobile device if authorization is received for the mobile device to operate on the determined telecommunications carrier s network Yes branch of decision the process can continue with the identification of information associated with the determined telecommunications carrier for configuring the mobile device . In some implementations the identified information indicates that the set of carrier specific settings for the determined telecommunications carrier should be enabled and or the sets of settings specific to other telecommunications carriers should be disabled. In other implementations the identified information includes carrier specific settings or default values for the determined telecommunications carrier. In some implementations the identified information associated with the determined telecommunications carrier is transmitted to the mobile device for configuring the mobile device .

During the activation process for the mobile device the mobile device can receive information associated with a telecommunications carrier . In some implementations the received information indicates which set of carrier specific settings existing on the mobile device should be enabled and or which sets should be disabled. In other implementations the transmitted information includes carrier specific settings or default values for the particular telecommunications carrier that will provide one or more services to the mobile device.

During the activation process for the mobile device the mobile device can use the received information to self configure . In some implementations configuring the mobile device includes configuring a software stack e.g. software stack of of the mobile device. In some implementations configuring the mobile device includes configuring a radio board or other hardware components in the mobile device. In some implementations the self configuring mobile device is a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a smart phone an EGPRS mobile phone or a media player. In some implementations the self configuring mobile device includes a multi touch sensitive display.

In some implementations the request to reconfigure a mobile device can occur as part of re activation or a repeated activation process for the mobile device. For example if the mobile device has been activated and configured with a first smart card e.g. with a first unique smart card identifier if the user removes the first smart card from the mobile device and replaces it with a second smart card e.g. with a second unique smart card identifier a security process e.g. security process of the mobile device of can detect the change in the installed smart card and can initiate an action such as starting a new activation process.

In some scenarios the first smart card associated with the first telecommunications carrier is replaced with a second smart card associated with the first telecommunications carrier. For example the second smart card can be owned by a second user who is borrowing the mobile device from the owner of the mobile device. In some implementations when smart cards associated with the same carrier are switched the mobile device software can be reconfigured with carrier specific settings associated with the second user.

In some scenarios the user replaces the first smart card associated with the first telecommunications carrier with a second smart card associated with a second telecommunications carrier. This hot swapping of smart cards may occur while the mobile device is turned on. In some implementations when the mobile device is manufactured with generic hardware e.g. a radio board that is not configured specifically for a particular telecommunications carrier the mobile device is capable of reconfiguring the hardware that was previously configured during the last activation process. That is if the generic hardware of the mobile device was configured for the first telecommunications carrier during the first activation process the mobile device can reconfigure the hardware for the second telecommunications carrier during a subsequent activation process following the swapping of the smart cards.

Returning to the process a second telecommunications carrier can be determined from a number of telecommunications carriers for the mobile device . For example the second telecommunications carrier can be determined by identifying the telecommunications carrier associated with the replacement smart card using the unique identifier of the replacement smart card.

Information associated with the determined second telecommunications carrier can be identified for reconfiguring the mobile device . In some implementations the identified information indicates that the set of carrier specific settings for the first telecommunications carrier should be disabled and the set of carrier specific settings for the determined second telecommunications carrier should be enabled. In other implementations the identified information includes carrier specific settings or default values for the determined second telecommunications carrier. In some implementations the identified information associated with the determined second telecommunications carrier is transmitted to the mobile device for reconfiguring the mobile device. In some implementations the carrier determination process can be a process that is independent of the activation process.

In some implementations the request to reconfigure a mobile device can be triggered automatically when the presently installed smart card is swapped with a new smart card. A security process e.g. security process of the mobile device of can detect the change in the installed smart card. In some implementations the security process will indicate the change to a core telephony framework in the application framework e.g. application framework of the software stack of .

In some implementations one or more applications e.g. applications of the software stack of monitor the core telephony framework for a notice or indication that the smart card has been replaced. Upon receiving notice or detecting an indication that the smart card has been replaced these applications can modify one or more settings e.g. new bookmarks for a web browsing application new stock quotes for a stock quote application when the mobile device is reconfigured.

Returning to the process information associated with a second telecommunications carrier is received . In some implementations the received information indicates that the present set of active settings specific to the first telecommunications carrier should be replaced with a set of settings specific to the second telecommunications carrier. In some implementations the received information includes one or more carrier specific settings for the second telecommunications carrier.

The mobile device is reconfigured using the received information . In some implementations reconfiguring the mobile device includes reconfiguring the software stack and or reconfiguring the radio board or other hardware or software components in the mobile device. In some implementations the reconfiguring mobile device is a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a smart phone an EGPRS mobile phone or a media player. In some implementations the reconfiguring mobile device includes a multi touch sensitive display.

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

