---

title: Navigation history
abstract: A method, apparatus, system, and signal-bearing medium that in an embodiment represent previously-accessed data items as nodes in a tree or trees and display the tree or trees with the access time on an axis. The root node of a tree represents a data item accessed via an address entered by a user while a child node of the tree represents a data item selected from a parent node of the child node. In an embodiment, data items that were displayed in the same window as their parents have different connectors between their associated nodes than do data items that were displayed in different windows from their parents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08250491&OS=08250491&RS=08250491
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08250491
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080428
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 775 941 filed on Feb. 10 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 373 614 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material to which the claim of copyright protection is made. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any person of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office file or records but reserves all other rights whatsoever.

This invention relates generally to navigation among data items and more particular to navigation among data items using a tree history.

The World Wide Web which is a collection of interconnected and cross linked web pages located on computers has become an important source of information. Users employ applications known as browsers to access these web pages. Since users frequently access the same web pages repeatedly especially web pages that they have recently used most browsers keep track of the web pages that the user has previously accessed using a technique known as a history. Previous browsers have used a linear history in chronological order that the user could navigate through using forward and back buttons which are analogous to the rewind and fast forward buttons on a VCR video cassette recorder .

For example a user might first visit the home page of a favorite baseball team and then follow a link on that home page to a second page with a particular player s batting average and then follow another link on the second page to a third page containing an magazine article about the player. Subsequently the user selects the back button on the browser twice to return to the home page of the baseball team instead of needing to type in the address of the home page.

A problem with this linear history is that users can visit a large number of web pages which are confusing to view in a linear history and the forward and back buttons are inefficient and cumbersome way to navigate through multiple web pages. Further the problems of a linear history are not confined to pages accessed via a web browser but also apply when a succession of data of other types is accessed over a period of time.

A method apparatus system and signal bearing medium are provided that in an embodiment represent previously accessed data items as nodes in a tree or trees and display the tree or trees with the access time on an axis. The root node of a tree represents a data item accessed via an address entered by a user while a child node of the tree represents a data item selected from a parent node of the child node. In an embodiment data items that were displayed in the same window as their parents have different connectors between their associated nodes than do data items that were displayed in different windows from their parents.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings where like numbers represent like elements which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention but other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Different instances of the word embodiment as used within this specification do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment but they may. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It is understood however that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention.

When the user selects the back button the browser retrieves and displays a previously accessed page which is a data item and also displays the address of the page in the address field . When the user selects one of the links or the browser retrieves another page associated with the selected link and displays the address of the accessed page in the address field . This other page may be displayed in the page contents or displayed in another window associated with another browser instance. Whether a page is displayed in the same window or a different window may be specified by the user by the browser by the accessed page or in some other suitable manner.

The address field also allows the user to enter an address of a page which the browser retrieves and displays. In an embodiment the address is a URL Uniform Resource Locator but in other embodiments any appropriate address may be used. Thus the back button the address field and the links and are alternative ways for the user to request that the browser access and display a page.

The links may be selected via a mouse or other pointing device a voice command or any other appropriate technique. Although five links and are shown any number may be present. Although the links are shown to be identified by underlining in other embodiments the links may be identified by color blinking highlighting reverse video animation or any other appropriate technique.

Although an embodiment is described in the context of a browser other embodiments may operate in the context of a database query system in which multiple database records may be queried a file system in which multiple files may be accessed or any other system in which multiple data items are accessed or are accessible.

A tree is a graphical format for displaying on an output device the hierarchical organization of nodes. The nodes can represent other objects such as web pages database records files or other data items. A tree takes its name from an analogy to trees in nature which have a hierarchical organization of branches and leaves. For example a leaf belongs to a small branch which further belongs to a large branch and all branches of the tree have a common starting point at the root.

Thus in such embodiments every node in a tree is the root of some subtree contained in the entire tree. The number of subtrees of a node is called the degree of that node. A node of degree zero is called a terminal node or a leaf. A nonterminal node is called a branch node. The level of a node with respect to T is defined by saying that the root has level 0 and other nodes have a level that is one higher than they have with respect the subtree that contains them. Each root is the parent of the roots of its subtrees and the latter are siblings and they are also the children of their parent. The root of the entire tree has no parent.

The first entire tree in the history window includes nodes and where node is the root node for the entire tree since node has no parent. Node is the parent of node which is the child of node . Node is also the parent of nodes and which are siblings and are also the children of node . Node is the parent of node which is the child of node . Node is the parent of node which is the child of node . Nodes and have no children so they are terminal nodes.

The second entire tree in the history window includes nodes and where node is the root node for the entire tree since node has no parent. Node is the parent of nodes and which are siblings and the children of node . Nodes and have no children so they are terminal nodes.

The root nodes and of the entire respective trees and represent data items in this example a page accessed via an address entered by a user for example an address entered in the address field in . In contrast the child nodes and of the entire respective trees and represent data items selected from data items associated with the parent nodes of the child nodes for example selected via one of the links or in .

In an embodiment the data items that were displayed in the same window as their parents have connectors between their associated nodes that have a first format while data items that were displayed in different windows from their parents have connectors with a second format. In the example shown the connector between nodes and is a solid line first format while the connector between nodes and is a dashed line second format and the connector between nodes and is a dashed line second format . In the embodiment shown a solid line indicates the data item associated with the child node e.g. node was displayed in the same window as the data item associated with the parent node e.g. node . In the embodiment shown a dashed line indicates the data item associated with the child node e.g. node was displayed in a different window as the data item associated with the parent node e.g. node . But in other embodiments any appropriate format solid line dashed line dotted line or any other format may be used for connectors between nodes and the first and second formats may be the same or different.

The nodes include a page icon and an identifier but in other embodiments either the page icon or the identifier may not be present. The page icon represents the associated data item in symbolic form. In an embodiment the page icon is an iconized view of an image associated with the data item for example a page. In an embodiment only a portion of the page is used in the page icon and the portion of the page may be selected to be easily recognizable. In an embodiment the identifier is a name of the data item. In another embodiment the identifier is an address of the data item. In another embodiment the identifier is a truncated address of the data item. Nodes and include page icons and respectively and identifiers respectively.

The window also includes a time axis which identifies the time that the data items associated with the nodes were accessed. In the embodiment shown the time axis includes the day of the week along with hours and minutes. In another embodiment the time axis may include the day month and year or any combination of the day month and year. In the embodiment shown only times relevant to the access times of the nodes are displayed in the time axis . For example no data items were accessed between 11 00 pm on Monday and 2 00 pm on Tuesday so times between these access times are not displayed. In another embodiment all times are displayed.

In the example shown the trees and are displayed vertically with their respective root nodes on top the opposite of trees in nature so that the most recent data item accessed is identified by a terminal node at the bottom node in the example shown . In another embodiment trees may be displayed vertically with their roots on the bottom the same as trees in nature so that the most recent data item accessed is identified by a terminal node at the top. In still other embodiments a tree may be displayed horizontally with its root on either the right or the left.

The scale is a slider that allows the user to request that the size of all the nodes or only selected nodes be increased or decreased. In another embodiment any appropriate user interface element may be used for the scale in lieu of a slider.

The depth is a slider that allows the user to request that the nodes be compressed or expanded. In another embodiment any appropriate user interface element may be used for the depth in lieu of a slider. In an embodiment the depth affects all nodes. In another embodiment the depth affects only selected nodes. Compression takes advantage of the hierarchical nature of web pages which is reflected in the addresses of the web pages to reduce the number of nodes displayed in a tree. The hierarchical nature of addresses can be understood by the following example. Consider the URL address http www.uspto. gov web menu intro.html which is an address to an introduction about the United States Patent and Trademark Office. This URL specifies a hypertext transfer protocol http and a name www.uspto.gov of the server the first hierarchical level . The URL also specifies the name of the file that contains the text intro.html the 4th hierarchical level and the hierarchical directory web the 2nd hierarchical level and subdirectory menu the 3rd hierarchical level structure in which the file resides on the server. A directory is a grouping of files on the server that usually contain related information. A subdirectory is a division within a directory. A URL might contain any number of directories and subdirectories. The delimiter that separates the various identifier components the different hierarchical levels of the URL is a in this example.

A user might access many pages within the www.uspto.gov web site which clutters the tree view. Compression reduces the number of displayed nodes by only displaying for example nodes associated with pages that have an address with a hierarchical level corresponding to the position of the depth slider. When the depth is set at zero compression all nodes are displayed. When the depth is set at maximum compression only nodes associated with an address at the first hierarchical level are displayed. When the depth is set at a compression between zero and the maximum nodes are displayed based on their hierarchical level relative to the setting of the depth . The hierarchical level of an address is determined by counting the number of delimiters in the address. Expansion is a reverse operation from compression.

A user may request that nodes be deleted from the trees and via a keyboard mouse or other pointing device or any other appropriate user interface.

If the determination at block is false then control continues to block where the function of is called. Control then continues to block where the function returns.

If the determination at block is true then control continues to block where the data item identified by the selected link is retrieved and displayed. Control then continues to block where the time that the data item was accessed retrieved and displayed is saved. Control then continues to block where a child node is built with an icon and or an identifier. The child node is built in a previously existing tree associated with the parent of the accessed data item.

Control then continues to block where a determination is made whether the data item was displayed in a window different from the window in which the parent data item was displayed. The parent data item is the data item from which the link was previously selected at block . Referring again to block if the determination at block is false then control continues to block where a connector having a first format is built between the child node created at block and the parent node associated with the data item from which the link was selected at block . In an embodiment the first format may be a solid line. In yet another format the first format may be any appropriate type of connector format. Control then continues to block where the function returns.

If the determination at block is true then control continues to block where a connector having a second format is built between the child node created at block and the parent node associated with the data item from which the link was selected at block . In an embodiment the second format is different from the first format. In another embodiment the second format is the same as the first format. In an embodiment the second format may be a dashed line. In another embodiment the second format may be a dotted line. In yet another format the second format may be any appropriate type of connector format. Control then continues to block where the function returns.

If the determination at block is false then control continues to block where a determination is made whether a node in the history tree has been selected. If the determination at block is true then control continues to block where the data item associated with the node selected at block is retrieved and displayed. Control then continues to block where the function returns.

If the determination at block is false then control continues to block where a determination is made whether a request to change the depth has been made. In an embodiment a change to the depth may be requested via the depth . If the determination at block is true then control continues to block where the nodes are compressed or expanded based on the depth . Control then continues to block where the function returns.

If the determination at block is false then control continues to block where a determination is made whether a change in the scale has been requested. A request to change the scale may be made via the scale . If the determination at block is true then control continues to block where the size of the nodes are scaled. Control then continues to block where the function returns.

The computer includes a processor a storage device an output device and an input device all connected via a bus . The processor represents a central processing unit of any type of architecture such as a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computing RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computing VLIW Very Long Instruction Word or a hybrid architecture although any appropriate processor may be used. The processor executes instructions and includes that portion of the computer that controls the operation of the entire computer. Although not depicted in the processor typically includes a control unit that organizes data and program storage in memory and transfers data and other information between the various parts of the computer . The processor receives input data from the input device and the network reads and stores code and data in the storage device and presents data to the output device .

Although the computer is shown to contain only a single processor and a single bus the present invention applies equally to computers that may have multiple processors and to computers that may have multiple buses with some or all performing different functions in different ways.

The storage device represents one or more mechanisms for storing data. For example the storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and or other machine readable media. In other embodiments any appropriate type of storage device may be used. Although only one storage device is shown multiple storage devices and multiple types of storage devices may be present. Further although the computer is drawn to contain the storage device it may be distributed across other computers for example on server .

The storage device includes a controller and data items . The controller includes instructions capable of being executed on the processor to carry out the functions of the present invention as previously described above with reference to and . In another embodiment some or all of the functions of the present invention are carried out via hardware in lieu of a processor based system. In an embodiment the controller is a browser but in other embodiments the controller may be a database system a file system or may include any other functions capable of accessing data items. Of course the storage device may also contain additional software and data not shown which is not necessary to understanding the invention.

Although the controller and the data items are shown to be within the storage device in the computer some or all of them may be distributed across other systems for example on the server e.g. data items and accessed via the network .

The output device is that part of the computer that displays output to the user. The output device may be a cathode ray tube CRT based video display well known in the art of computer hardware. But in other embodiments the output device may be replaced with a liquid crystal display LCD based or gas plasma based flat panel display. In still other embodiments any appropriate display device may be used. Although only one output device is shown in other embodiments any number of output devices of different types or of the same type may be present. The output device displays the windows and previously described above with reference to respectively.

The input device may be a keyboard mouse or other pointing device trackball touchpad touchscreen keypad microphone voice recognition device or any other appropriate mechanism for the user to input data to the computer and manipulate the user interfaces previously described above with respect to . Although only one input device is shown in another embodiment any number and type of input devices may be present.

The bus may represent one or more busses e.g. PCI ISA Industry Standard Architecture X Bus EISA Extended Industry Standard Architecture USB FireWire IEEE standard 1394 or any other appropriate bus and or bridge also called a bus controller .

The computer may be implemented using any suitable hardware and or software such as a personal computer or other electronic computing device. Portable computers laptop or notebook computers PDAs Personal Digital Assistants pocket computers appliances telephones and mainframe computers are examples of other possible configurations of the computer . The hardware and software depicted in may vary for specific applications and may include more or fewer elements than those depicted. For example other peripheral devices such as audio adapters or chip programming devices such as EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory programming devices may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware already depicted.

The network may be any suitable network and may support any appropriate protocol suitable for communication to the computer . In an embodiment the network may support wireless communications. In another embodiment the network may support hard wired communications such as a telephone line or cable. In another embodiment the network may support the Ethernet IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.3x specification. In another embodiment the network may be the Internet and may support IP Internet Protocol . In another embodiment the network may be a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . In another embodiment the network may be a hotspot service provider network. In another embodiment the network may be an intranet. In another embodiment the network may be a GPRS General Packet Radio Service network. In another embodiment the network may be any appropriate cellular data network or cell based radio network technology. In another embodiment the network may be an IEEE 802.11 wireless network. In still another embodiment the network may be any suitable network or combination of networks. Although one network is shown in other embodiments any number of networks of the same or different types may be present.

As was described in detail above aspects of an embodiment pertain to specific apparatus and method elements implementable on a computer or other electronic device. In another embodiment the invention may be implemented as a program product for use with an electronic device. The programs defining the functions of this embodiment may be delivered to an electronic device via a variety of signal bearing media which include but are not limited to 

 1 information permanently stored on a non rewriteable storage medium e.g. a read only memory device attached to or within an electronic device such as a CD ROM readable by a CD ROM drive 

 2 alterable information stored on a rewriteable storage medium e.g. a hard disk drive or diskette or

 3 information conveyed to an electronic device by a communications medium such as through a computer or a telephone network including wireless communications.

Such signal bearing media when carrying machine readable instructions that direct the functions of the present invention represent embodiments of the present invention.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of this invention may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the subjoined claims.

