---

title: Systems and methods for providing direct communication from personalized targeted advertisements
abstract: A method of creating a personalized targeted advertisement for displaying on a webpage of a website is disclosed. The personalized targeted advertisement includes features to provide direct communication between a sender and a recipient of the personalized targeted advertisement. A selection of an advertisement template from a plurality of advertisement templates is detected. Then, a media file and a custom message are received to build the personalized targeted advertisement. The personalized targeted advertisement is then sent to the recipient identified by a unique identification. The advertising server is notified so that the personalized targeted advertisement can be displayed when the recipient identified by the unique identification logs into the website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08468049&OS=08468049&RS=08468049
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08468049
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080220
---
This Application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 159 456 filed on Jun. 23 2005 entitled Method and Apparatus for Generating Targeted Advertisements which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

This invention generally relates to online advertising. More specifically but without limitation this invention relates to providing direct communication between a sender and a receiver from within the targeted advertising.

The computing industry has seen many advances in recent years and such advances have produced a multitude products and services. Internet websites are examples of products and services which are created to give users access to particular types of services data or searching capabilities. The providers of the Internet websites are increasingly adapting online advertising for generating revenue.

The Internet has emerged as an attractive new medium for advertisers of information products and services advertisers to reach not only consumers in general but also to enable increased capabilities to identify and target specific groups of consumers based on their preferences characteristics or behaviors. However the Internet is composed of an unlimited number of sites dispersed across millions of different computer systems all over the world and so advertisers face the daunting task of locating and targeting the specific groups or subgroups of consumers who are potentially interested in their information products and or services. These efforts are well worth their reward however as a well placed advertisement on a high traffic website may produce as many views as conventional print or television advertising. Even more important than just placing an Internet advertisement is the ability to target consumers who will actually observe and appreciate the content. Advertisers get far more bang for their buck by targeting advertisements and are therefore willing to pay more money for this type of ad placement.

A common way for advertisers to target particular users is to purchase advertising space on a particular site. For example many sites sell advertising space for banner ads. Banner ads are graphical images that are used on Web sites to advertise information products or services. Banner ads usually conform to a standard size as agreed upon by the Interactive Advertising Bureau or IAB such as 460 pixels wide and 60 pixels tall . The use of a standard size enables developers to design a site that allows for the interchangeability of ads and also allows advertisers to use the same banner ad repeatedly. Typically banner ads are sold per impression which is a particular instance of a banner. Unfortunately traditional banner advertisement price structures are geared for advertisers seeking large audiences. In most cases advertisers sell banner ad space per 1 000 impressions leaving consumers and small business owners paying for needless impressions.

Current banner ads provide a limited way for advertisers to perform targeted marketing. For example advertisers may be able to target specific users by choosing a site whose visitors demographic information most closely matches the advertiser s targeted audience. Additionally advertisers may determine a user s interest in certain areas from a user s page views or self declared information such as demographics. However these methods do not provide a complete view of a user s interests and their likely responses to advertisements. Using pages a user views or user demographic information does not provide an accurate measure as to whether a user would actually click on an advertisement and actually buy a product from the advertiser after clicking on the advertisement. Moreover demographic information provides no guarantee that specific users exhibiting those characteristics actually see an advertisement.

Broadly speaking the present invention fills these needs by providing methods and systems to enable direct two way communication between the sender and the receiver of the targeted advertisement from within the targeted advertisement itself. The embodiments of the invention provide unique means of engaging the recipients of a personalized targeted advertisement. The embodiments also provide calls to action that allow the recipients to communicate directly from within the advertisement rather than go through the steps of communicating in some other traditional ways.

The systems and methods described herein provide creation of a targeted advertisement using advertisement templates custom messages media file s etc. A user can create a personalized targeted advertisement and send to one or more recipients. When a recipient visits a website that is associated with a particular advertisement server the visited webpage displays the personalized targeted advertisement that was created and sent by a sender. On the other hand for a regular user of the website a regular non personalized advertisement is displayed. The personalized targeted advertisement includes built in two way communication features to enable one or more recipients to individually communicate with the sender without leaving the webpage or the targeted advertisement. Hence there is a need for the methods and systems for enabling two way direct communication from within the targeted advertisement because providing such functionality encourages the recipient to stay connected to the webpage for a relatively longer duration. As an added advantage keeping the recipient on the webpage enhances the chances that the recipient would pay attention to other advertisements and information on the webpage.

In one embodiment a method of creating a personalized targeted advertisement for displaying on a webpage of a website is disclosed. The personalized targeted advertisement includes features to provide direct communication between a sender and a recipient of the personalized targeted advertisement. A selection of an advertisement template from a plurality of advertisement templates is detected. Then a media file and a custom message are received to build the personalized targeted advertisement. The personalized targeted advertisement is then sent to the recipient identified by a unique identifier. The advertising server is notified so that the personalized targeted advertisement can be displayed when the recipient identified by the unique identifier logs into the website. The personalized targeted advertisement is stored in a web server.

In another embodiment a method of providing direct communication between a sender and a recipient of a personalized targeted advertisement on a webpage is disclosed. The method includes receiving the personalized targeted advertisement from an advertisement server. Receiving of the personalized targeted advertisement includes receiving a custom message that was entered by the sender of the personalized targeted advertisement and a media file. The receiving of the personalized targeted advertisement also includes receiving a plurality of Internet links at least one of the plurality of Internet links enables communication between the sender and the recipient. An identification of an advertisement template is also received. The advertisement template is selected and set by the sender of the personalized targeted advertisement. An Object tag is build using the custom message at least one of the plurality of Internet links the media file and the advertisement template. The Object tag is then included in HTML code of the webpage for displaying the personalized targeted advertisement.

In yet another embodiment a system for providing a direct communication between a sender and a recipient of a personalized targeted advertisement on a webpage is provided. The webpage is hosted in a web server. A media file server is included to store and manage a plurality of media files associated with the personalized targeted advertisement. The media file server defined to be in communication with the web server. The system also includes an advertisement server in communication with the web server and a targeted advertisement generator module in communication with the advertisement server and the web server. The targeted advertisement generator module constructs an Object tag that is included in HTML code of the webpage.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Most notably the system and methods described herein provide an efficient way of having users of a website stay on the website by providing the recipient a functionality to communicate with the sender of a personalized targeted advertisement without leaving the webpage or even the personalized targeted advertisement. Further the advertisers or senders are also benefited because the recipients are more likely to pay attention to the content of a personalized targeted advertisement.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the present invention.

The figures are provided in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The figures should not be construed as limiting the breath of the invention in any manner.

A method and system for providing direct communication between a sender and a receiver of a personalized targeted advertisement on a webpage is disclosed. A personalized targeted advertisement is a webpage advertisement in which the content is personalized and customized specifically for an intended recipient. The personalized targeted advertisement inter alia includes features to enable receiving the targeted advertisement forward the targeted advertisement to another receiver responding to the sender of the targeted advertisement and creating a new targeted advertisement for sending to another receiver. The system also provides a template based target advertisement creation. In one example a media file containing a picture or an audio video can be attached to the template to create a customized targeted advertisement. In other example a new template can be created by a sender.

One of the advantages of the embodiments of present invention described herein is that the embodiments provide unique means for engaging the recipient of a personalized targeted advertisement. The embodiments also provide calls to action that allow the recipients to respond directly within the advertisement rather than go through the steps of communicating in some other traditional fashion such as opening an email program opening a compose window clicking on a send button etc. By providing a direct communication channel from the personalized targeted advertisement the recipient is more likely to engage in communication with the sender of the personalized advertisement due to sheer ease of communication.

Further the embodiments also serve to close a feedback loop such that the sender of the personalized advertisement has an increased likelihood of knowing whether their intended recipient of the personalized advertisement has seen the advertisement. An added advantage for the sender of the personalized advertisement is that there is a feeling of gratification associated with knowing that the recipient has seen the advertisement. Still further the sender may employ methods to track the receivers who have seen or not seen the targeted advertisements. In one example the collected data may be used to design media campaigns on Internet.

With this overview in mind the following figures will illustrate example structure and functionality of the system and method for providing direct communication between a sender and a receiver from within a personalized targeted advertisement.

The personalized targeted advertisement in one embodiment includes a custom media section for displaying or playing a media file that was associated by the sender with the personalized targeted advertisement . The personalized targeted advertisement further includes a custom text section for displaying a message from the sender. A media area is provided to display or play a media file that is provided by the template of the personalized targeted advertisement . The template of the personalized targeted advertisement will be discussed in detail later in this document. A plurality of media controls are provided to control playing of the media files. In other embodiments one or more of these controls or sections may be omitted. Further the structure of the personalized targeted advertisement depends on the selected template. Therefore the creator of the templates may add more sections change positions of the sections or omit one or more sections and controls as illustrated in .

Still referring to the personalized targeted advertisement further includes a communication controls section which provides hosting space for various communication controls such as Respond Create and Forward . The names and functions of these controls may be different in different embodiments. In one embodiment these controls are initially hidden while the communication controls section displays the identification of the sender of the personalized targeted advertisement . In other embodiments other controls may be included to provide other types of peer to peer type of communication between the sender and the recipient e.g. voice calling instant messaging etc.

In one embodiment the Object tag includes the plurality of Internet links that can be associated with Respond Create and Forward communication controls. Further the Object tag also supplies data that is necessary to provide communication features to enable the recipient to communicate with the sender of the personalized targeted advertisement . The Internet links are packed in a variable that is suitable for providing the input data to a Flash player web control on the webpage . It may be noted that in other embodiments different commonly available web media players may be used for displaying the personalized targeted advertisement on the webpage . In other embodiments the structure of the Object tag can be adjusted to the requirements of a particular type of web media player. Web media Player is the standard for displaying media rich web content including web applications.

In one example the Flash player reads the Object tag and parses the data included in the exemplary flashvars variable as shown in . The Flash player then retrieves and displays the targeted advertisement template as identified by the template variable in the flashvars variable. In one embodiment the Flash player also retrieves the custom media file not shown in as identified in the Object tag and plays or displays the custom media file at an appropriate place in the personalized targeted advertisement. Similarly the custom message is displayed at an appropriate place in the personalized targeted advertisement . Further the Internet links are associated with appropriate communication controls in the personalized targeted advertisement. In other examples more operations may be added as prescribed by the template or one or more of above described operations may be omitted to suit the template design and features.

The templates are used by the senders to create personalized targeted advertisements by providing necessary information as per the requirements of the selected template . In one embodiment the personalized targeted advertisement creation can be performed programmatically using an Application Programming Interface API provided by the service provider of the personalized targeted advertisement system.

In one embodiment the advertisement creation screen of includes a preview area in which the selected template is initially displayed. In this embodiment the custom message entered in the caption box is automatically displayed in the appropriate place in the template per the design of the template . Similarly the media file is also attached to the template after the media file is uploaded. The play ad button can be used to preview the personalized targeted advertisement. Finally the personalized targeted advertisement is sent to the advertisement server by selecting the send button .

The creation of the personalized targeted advertisement in one embodiment is triggered when a user selects the create button . In other embodiment the creation of a targeted advertisement can be accomplished by visiting an appropriate webpage provided by the service provider of the targeted advertisement system. In yet other embodiments the creation of the personalized targeted advertisement as described above may also be performed programmatically with the use of an API provided by the targeted advertisement system. In one embodiment the process of programmatically creating the personalized targeted advertisement is subjected to necessary checks to prevent spam.

Referring back to as illustrated an exemplary personalized targeted advertisement includes a forward button . In other embodiments the buttons may be replaced by corresponding Internet links or URLs. The forward button can be used to forward the personalized targeted advertisement to another recipient. illustrate an exemplary process of forwarding a personalized targeted advertisement to another recipient. In one embodiment when the forward button is selected or clicked the face of the targeted advertisement changes to show a user identity box and a send button . One or more user identities e.g. email id user name etc. can be entered in the user identity box . When the send button is clicked the personalized targeted advertisement is forwarded to the recipients that were listed in the user identity box . In one embodiment a message is shown on success of the forward operation.

Similarly the respond button on the personalized targeted advertisement can be used to respond to the sender of the personalized targeted advertisement . When the respond button is clicked the user is presented with a screen as illustrated in in one embodiment and in another embodiment. The respond screen in one embodiment includes a space to display the personalized targeted advertisement that is being responded. The respond screen further includes a response box for entering a response and a save button to save the response. The response screen may also include identity of the user who is responding to the received personalized targeted advertisement. In one embodiment the response screen may also include a forward button to forward a targeted advertisement to other recipient as discussed in .

The response as entered in response box is stored on a server and placed in the inbox of the sender. This process of keeping track of sent and received targeted advertisements and responses is discussed in more detail in . illustrates an exemplary screen to show an entered response when the save button is clicked. In one embodiment the responses are saved in the inbox of the sender of the original personalized targeted advertisement . In other embodiment a notification is sent to the sender of the original personalized targeted advertisement when a response is entered by the recipient. The notification may be sent via email SMS Instant messaging etc.

In one embodiment when the personalized targeted advertisement is received by the server a flag is set at the targeted advertisement sever to indicate that a particular recipient has a personalized targeted advertisement waiting to be displayed when this particular recipient visits a particular website or webpage. In another embodiment a notification is also sent to the recipient. The notification is sent to inform the recipient that a personalized message e.g. targeted advertisement is waiting for the recipient. One added advantage of sending this notification is to encourage the recipient to visit the website.

In one embodiment if there are more than one personalized targeted advertisement exist for the user the server selects the first one in the list and then the subsequent advertisement in the list during a subsequent visit by the user to the website. In one embodiment a personalized targeted advertisement is displayed only once. After displaying the last personalized targeted advertisement in the list the flag at the advertisement server is set to false. In other embodiments the sender or the recipient or both can control this aspect of the display of the personalized targeted advertisement through relevant property settings in the targeted advertisement system.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The programming modules page modules and subsystems described in this document can be implemented using a programming language such as Flash JAVA C C C Visual Basic JAVA Script PHP XML HTML etc. or a combination of programming languages. Commonly available application programming interface API such as HTTP API XML API and parsers etc. are used in the implementation of the programming modules. As would be known to those skilled in the art that the components and functionality described above and elsewhere in this document may be implemented on any desktop operating system which provides a support for a display screen such as different versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Mac Unix X Windows Linux etc. using any programming language suitable for desktop software development.

The programming modules and ancillary software components including configuration file or files along with setup files required for providing direct communication from personalized targeted advertising and related functionality as described in this document are stored on a computer readable medium. Any computer medium such as a flash drive a CD ROM disk an optical disk a floppy disk a hard drive a shared drive and storage suitable for providing downloads from connected computers could be used for storing the programming modules and ancillary software components. It would be known to a person skilled in the art that any storage medium could be used for storing these software components so long as the storage medium can be read by a computer system.

The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While this invention has been described in terms of several preferable embodiments it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon reading the specifications and studying the drawings will realize various alternation additions permutations and equivalents thereof. It is therefore intended that the present invention includes all such alterations additions permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

