---

title: Method for production of short chain carboxylic acids and esters from biomass and product of same
abstract: A method for producing a mixture of short chain carboxylic acids from biomass includes adding biomass to a reactor vessel, heating the biomass to crack it, removing undesired and unreacted materials and light ends from the cracked biomass, and removing a mixture containing carboxylic acids having carbon chain lengths between C2 and C16. A composition includes a carboxyl group-containing compound derived by cracking biomass and having a carboxyl carbon chain length between C2 and C16.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08076504&OS=08076504&RS=08076504
owner: The University of North Dakota
number: 08076504
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081231
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 009 663 filed on Dec. 31 2007 for Method to Produce Short Chain Carboxylic Acids and Esters from Biomass by A. Kubatova and W. Seames and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 074 206 filed on Jun. 20 2008 for Thermal Cracking Method to Produce Short Chain Carboxylic Acids from Biomass by A. Kubatova and W. Seames which are incorporated by reference.

This invention was made at least in part with U.S. Government support under contract numbers 04 C GA ERAU amendment 039 awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention

One of the key challenges facing modern industrialized society is the rapid depletion of crude oil which is the primary source for most transportation fuels and many organic chemicals. The petrochemical industry represents a substantial benefit to human society and the invention and commercialization of alternative sources for petrochemicals is of great importance.

Two categories of organic chemicals that are often produced from petroleum are short chain carboxylic acids and short chain carboxylic esters. These chemicals have a wide range of uses which include serving as monomers for many types of polymers paints coatings and fragrance sources for perfumes and other commodities.

The use of short chain carboxylic acids as monomers is of particular importance. Substantial efforts have been made in recent years to develop usable polymers from fatty acids bound within triacylglycerides. Processes such as the Soyol process incorporate triacylglyceride fatty acids directly into polymers. One disadvantage of these processes is that the resulting polymers have properties that are different and in many cases inferior to existing polymers produced from petrochemical based monomers.

Surprisingly very little work has been done to chemically modify triacylglycerides to produce more useful fatty acid based monomers and other commodity chemicals that are identical or nearly identical to existing monomers. Thus a need exists to provide an alternative source for these chemicals so that demand can be satisfied as the source material crude oil diminishes.

The invention described herein provides a process for the production of commercial grade short chain carboxylic acids and short chain carboxylic esters from triacylglycerides long chain fatty acids long chain lipids or similar chemicals.

One embodiment of the present invention is a method for producing a mixture of short chain carboxylic acids from biomass. The method includes adding biomass to a reactor vessel heating the biomass to crack it removing undesired and unreacted materials and light ends from the cracked biomass and removing a mixture containing carboxylic acids having carbon chain lengths between C2 and C16.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a composition including a carboxyl group containing compound derived by cracking biomass and having a carboxyl carbon chain length between C2 and C16.

In a first aspect of the invention an oil containing primarily fatty acids embedded within triacylglyceride obtained from plants expressed from algae derived from animal biomass or derived from other sources is added to a reactor vessel.

In a second aspect of the invention the oil is heated in the reactor vessel to a temperature from about 100 C. to about 600 C. at a pressure ranging from about vacuum conditions to about 3000 psia for a time sufficient to crack the oil. During the process undesired material unreacted oil and light ends are removed from the cracked oil. The purified material contains chemical compounds that are desirable for isolation as short chain carboxylic acids and fuels.

In a third aspect of the invention short chain carboxylic acid compounds are extracted from fuel compounds and are purified. The short chain carboxylic acids generally include fatty acids with 2 12 carbon atoms C2 C12 . Desirable fuel components generally include C4 C16 alkanes alkenes aromatics cycloparaffins and alcohols.

In a fourth aspect of the invention preferential extraction of selected fatty acids is carried out by liquid liquid extraction using a basic aqueous solvent such as an amine like trimethylamine. The fatty acid rich solvent is regenerated to liberate the fatty acids from the solvent. Individual C2 C12 fatty acids are obtained in purified form by physical and or chemical separation.

In a fifth aspect of the invention preferential extraction of selected fatty acids is carried out by a sequential liquid liquid extraction method whereby room temperature water is used to preferentially extract C2 C5 fatty acids then higher temperature water or a basic aqueous solution is used to selectively extract C4 C7 fatty acids and finally pressurized hot water or another solvent is used to preferentially extract C6 C12 fatty acids. After extraction individual C2 C12 fatty acids are obtained in purified form by physical and or chemical separation.

In a sixth aspect of the invention esterification of one or more of the individual C2 C12 short chain fatty acids or a mixture thereof using an alcohol or a mixture of alcohols is carried out. Esterification alcohols employed for the esterification include but are not limited to methanol ethanol normal propanol iso propanol normal butanol iso butanol allyl alcohol and other alcohols. After esterification the esterified material is separated from unreacted material.

In order to accurately describe the invention the following terms are defined to have the following associated meanings 

 Biomass means any organic non fossil material that is derived from the mass of any biological organism excluding mass that has been transformed by geological processes in substances such as coal or petroleum.

 Carboxyl group means a portion of a chemical molecule that contains a carbon atom with a double bond connection to an oxygen atom and where the same carbon atom is also connected to a hydroxyl group and where no other atoms are connected by a chemical bond to the doubly bonded oxygen atom. This structure is acidic because in certain solutions the hydrogen atom on the hydroxyl group readily dissociates from the chemical molecule forming a cation the hydrogen atom and an anion the remainder of the chemical molecule .

 Cracking means any process that changes the chemical composition of an organic chemical or chemical mixture by cleaving one or more carbon carbon bonds in one or more molecules.

 Carboxylic acid ester is a chemical compound formed by the reaction of a carboxylic acid and an alcohol where a terminal hydrogen atom of the carboxyl group is replaced by a carbon chain radical from the alcohol.

 Hydroxyl group means a portion of a chemical molecule containing an oxygen atom connected by a single bond to a hydrogen atom and also connected by a single bond to the rest of the chemical molecule where the hydrogen atom is not connected to any other atoms.

 Light ends means chemicals which stay in the gaseous phase at conditions of temperature and pressure at which middle distillates are in the liquid phase.

 Middle distillate means a chemical which has properties amenable for inclusion in a gasoline kerosene or diesel type fuel or which have a volatility similar to those paraffins and or olefins which are amenable for inclusion in a gasoline kerosene or diesel type fuel. A middle distillate can also contain carboxylic acids.

 Plant means any living organism that is a member of the kingdom Plantae or of the division Chiorphyta green algae .

 Plant oil means lipids that are derived from plant sources. Examples of plant oil include crop oils or oilseeds and vegetable oils.

 Short chain carboxylic acid means a chemical compound with no more than 12 carbons that contains a carboxyl group.

 Short chain carboxylic ester means a chemical compound derived from a short chain carboxylic acid in which the carboxylic acid group is replaced by an ester group.

 Thermal cracking means a cracking process that involves the addition of energy in the form of thermal energy as measured by an increase in the temperature of the substance being cracked.

 Triacylglyceride or TG is a major component of unmodified plant oils it is an ester of glycerol and three fatty acids.

 Unreacted raw material is the material in the cracking reactor product stream that has a chemical composition that is not amenable as a middle distillate blend component and can be further exposed to cracking reactor conditions and transformed into middle distillate and or light ends and or tars. These compounds may be chemically identical to the original starting material a fatty acid whose length is identical or similar to the fatty acid chains on an original triacylglyceride when triacylglycerides are in the feedstock or a partially cracked paraffin olefin or carboxylic acid that has too many carbon atoms in the primary carbon chain to be amenable as a middle distillate blend component.

No previous invention or published work has been identified that describes the use of thermal and catalytic cracking for the formation of short chain carboxylic acids and or esters. Thus there is a need to develop a method that allows a crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat oil feedstock to be converted into these important and valuable chemicals. The current invention utilizes separation technologies coupled with thermal catalytic cracking techniques in order to develop crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat based chemicals that can replace commercially available chemicals generated from other feed stock sources.

The present invention is directed to the production and purification of C2 to C16 short chain carboxylic acids with potentially subsequent conversion to short chain carboxylic esters from plant oils biologically generated lipids or animal fats. Specifically the feedstocks are triacylglyceride compounds. This invention provides a means to produce these valuable and necessary chemicals from new feedstocks not currently utilized in their production. The chemical modifications based on the use of cracking and separation techniques are designed to produce commercial quality short chain carboxylic acid chemical products that can directly replace comparable chemical products generated from other feedstock sources.

Research exploring triacylglycerides thermal and catalytic cracking individual triacylglycerides and vegetable oils has occurred sporadically in the last few decades. From these works a set of organic reactions have been identified as occurring during the thermal catalytic cracking of triacylglycerides. These reactions are illustrated in Table 1 below.

The chemical composition of crackate generated typically obtained from fresh or used vegetable oil was reported in a number of studies. The known overall process routes are diagramed below in Table 2.

Surprisingly conditions were discovered that allow the generation of commercially viable concentrations of short chain carboxylic acids. When purified to remove light ends heavy ends and unreacted material the resulting middle distillate contains 5 or more short chain carboxylic acids preferably 20 or more short chain carboxylic acids more preferably 30 or more short chain carboxylic acids and most preferably 60 or more short chain carboxylic acids. The present invention uses thermal or catalytic cracking technologies known in the art coupled with separation technologies such as distillation filtration solvent extraction and related technologies for the specific purpose of producing commercial quality short chain carboxylic acids from biomass. Previously these same short chain carboxylic acids were produced from sources other than biomass.

It has been further discovered that there is an economic advantage to further process some or all of the purified short chain carboxylic acids or a mixture thereof in order to produce short chain carboxylic acid esters. This aspect of the invention uses esterification reactions with one or more alcohols these reactions being known in the art coupled with separation technologies such as distillation filtration solvent extraction and related technologies for the specific purpose of producing commercial quality short chain carboxylic acid esters that are derived from biomass. The short chain carboxylic acid esters that can be produced by this process range from 2 to 16 carbon atoms in length.

The raw material for this new process is any triacylglyceride free fatty acid or other carboxylic acid representing a group of chemical compounds that can be found in plants or plant oils or medium C10 C14 and longer greater than C16 chain fatty acids that are naturally synthesized and found in biomass such as algae animal fats or modified materials. The triacylglycerides in plant oils generally contain three medium C10 C14 and or long greater than C16 chain fatty naturally synthesized carboxylic acids connected via a glycerol group. These medium and or long chain fatty acids can be purified separated and chemically modified for use as a food source or chemical feedstock or as a potential transportation fuel. Plants and plant oils include but are not limited to flax soybean safflower sunflower sesame canola rapeseed jatropha primrose poppy camelina crambe olive coconut palm cotton corn soybean jojoba pennycress tomato and nuts. Compositions of some major commercially available crop oils are listed in Table 3.

Typical fatty acids contained in crop oils include saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Saturated fatty acids do not contain any double bonds or other functional groups. Unsaturated fatty acids contain two or more carbon atoms having a carbon carbon double bond. Saturated acids include stearic C18 18 0 palmitic C16 16 0 myristic C14 14 0 and lauric C12 12 0 . Unsaturated acids include those such as linolenic cis cis cis C18 18 3 linoleic cis cis C18 18 2 oleic cis C18 18 1 hexadecanoic cis cis C16 16 2 palmitoleic cis C16 16 1 and myristoleic cis C14 14 1 .

It is known that thermal and catalytic cracking of medium C10 C14 and or long greater than C16 chain fatty naturally synthesized carboxylic acids coupled with separation and purification technologies can produce a mixture of chemicals suitable for use as a fuel or a fuel blendstock most specifically as components in diesel kerosene aviation turbine and motor gasoline fuels. An example of a method for deriving fuel from biomass is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 644 Seames which is herein incorporated by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 644 describes a process for producing a fuel from biomass with a cloud point below 10 C. The present invention describes a process that can produce short chain carboxylic acids and carboxylic acid esters while also producing materials suitable for use fuels or fuel blendstocks. Combining production of short chain carboxylic acids and acid esters with fuel or fuel products offers the ability to produce not one but two beneficial products using one set of cracking parameters.

In the cracking process energy is used to break carbon carbon bonds. Once broken each carbon atom ends up with a single electron and free radicals. Reactions of the free radicals can lead to the various products illustrated in Table 1. The breaking of large organic molecules into smaller and more useful molecules can be achieved by using high pressures and or temperatures with a catalyst catalytic cracking or without thermal cracking . Previous research has shown that medium C10 C14 and long greater than C16 chain fatty naturally synthesized carboxylic acids are compatible for the cracking processes using either thermal or catalytic cracking. These techniques have been used in previous inventions and studies to modify the chemical composition of crop oils or biodiesel. However they have not been used to produce commercial quality short chain carboxylic acids and or esters.

A catalyst can be used to improve the yield of desirable products decrease the formation of unwanted products or increase the efficiency of the cracking reaction due to lower pressure temperature or residence time requirements. Catalysts include but are not limited to zeolites carbon and rare metals such as palladium niobium molybdenum platinum titanium aluminum cobalt gold and mixtures thereof.

The cracking output is subjected to a variety of processing and purification steps dependent upon the material generated. The output from the cracking reactor depends upon the specific reactor design employed. The following are examples of reactor types known to those skilled in the art batch continuous flow through flow through packed bed and fluidized bed. Material generated in the cracking reactor can generally be defined as light ends unreacted raw materials recyclables residual materials or residue tars and middle distillate .

Light ends are unreacted vapor phase materials that were added to the reactor to manipulate the cracking reaction such as hydrogen nitrogen or water vapor in addition to small molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons generated in the cracking reactor. The small molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons such as methane methanol ethane ethanol n pentane i pentane pentene pentanol n butane i butane butanol butane methyl ester ethyl ester etc. have chemical and physical properties that are undesirable such as being too volatile when present in substantial concentrations of short chain carboxylic acid extracts or middle distillate fuel components. Light ends are separated from the other material that exits the reactor by gas liquid phase separation distillation condensation or other processes in purification step .

Unreacted raw materials are chemicals that enter the cracking reactor but are not converted to chemical compounds with carbon chains shorter than C16. These materials have some chemical and physical properties that are undesirable in the fuel products. Unreacted raw materials are separated from the middle distillate components by distillation or other separation techniques in purification step . Unreacted or uncracked raw materials can then be returned to the cracking reactor fed to a second cracking reactor or utilized for some other purpose.

Residual material or residue tars are chemicals produced during cracking reactions that have a higher molecular weight lower volatility and or lower heating value than is desirable in middle distillate . Some of the residual components can be separated from middle distillate along with unreacted raw materials and processed with these unreacted raw materials . Other residue components typically those of higher molecular weight will be in the form of solid material at room temperature after the cracking reaction. These compounds are typically known as tars. Tars may contain valuable chemical compounds such as boiler fuel or other by products that can be extracted from residual material by various process methods including solvent extraction distillation etc or may contain chemicals that can be transformed by chemical reactions into valuable chemical compounds. Depending upon the design of the cracking reactor tars may not be amenable to further processing. Such tars may be oxidized combusted or otherwise removed from the cracking reactor or cracking catalysts by methods known in the art.

Middle distillate components are short chain carboxylic acid compounds generated in the cracking reactor as well as those portions of the remaining material that contribute to desirable chemical and physical properties of fuel or fuel blend stock products.

Short chain carboxylic acids are removed from middle distillate using one or more process methods step including solvent extraction distillation etc. One embodiment of such a process is illustrated in . Middle distillate enters a short chain fatty acid SCFA extraction column in step . Solvent such as a 40 aqueous solution of trimethylamine hot water or aqueous NaOH is delivered to the extraction column. The solvent absorbs short chain fatty acids as it passes through the column generating an SCFA rich solvent while other components e.g. biofuel components remain in a separate liquid phase and are removed from the column separately. Mixed short chain fatty acids are separated from the solvent. The solvent can then be regenerated step and delivered back to the extraction column.

Once short chain carboxylic fatty acids are isolated from middle distillate they can be processed and purified further. Additional purification steps produce product streams that contain primarily single components or specific groups of short chain carboxylic acids . One embodiment of a typical purification scheme is shown in . Light fatty acids C5 and shorter and heavy fatty acids C6 to C16 are separated from mixed short chain fatty acids by mixed SCFA splitter . The separated fatty acids are then further separated using distillation columns to extract fatty acids of particular carbon chain lengths. For example the light short chain fatty acids are delivered to a series of distillation columns. Acetic acid is isolated in acetic acid column propanoic acid is isolated in propanoic acid column butyric acid is isolated in butyric acid column and valeric acid is isolated in valeric acid column . Less volatile heavy short chain fatty acids are isolated in a similar manner using hexanoic acid column heptanoic acid column and heavy SCFA splitter for fatty acids having eight or more carbon atoms on the carbon chain . The purification process selected is dependent upon the technology used to isolate short chain carboxylic acids from the fuel components of middle distillate .

Individual or mixtures of the short chain carboxylic acids produced in this process can be further processed into short chain carboxylic acid esters by reacting the short chain carboxylic acid with one or more alcohols. Unreacted and or by product material is then removed from the product short chain carboxylic acid esters to obtain commercial quality short chain carboxylic acid esters.

In one embodiment of the invention a triacylglyceride crop oil biologically generated lipid animal fat oil or a transesterified derivative of any of these oils biomass is heated to a temperature ranging from 300 C. to 500 C. in a cracking reactor at pressures ranging from vacuum conditions to 3000 psia in the presence of a gaseous environment that can contain an inert gas such as nitrogen water vapor hydrogen a mixture of vapor phase organic chemicals or any other gaseous substance for residence times ranging from one to 180 minutes to affect cracking reactions that change the chemical composition of the contents of the cracking reactor. The vapor leaving the cracking reactor crackate is subjected to downstream processing that can include cooling and partial condensation vapor liquid separation extraction of by product chemicals by solvent extraction or other chemical physical property manipulation in situ reaction distillation or flash separation to produce an acceptable transportation fuel such as aviation turbine fuel or diesel fuel. The liquid and solids leaving the reactor residue are subjected to downstream processing that can include cooling or heating liquid solid separation vapor liquid separation vapor solid separation extraction of by product chemicals by solvent extraction or other chemical physical property manipulation to produce an acceptable fuel by product or byproducts. Unreacted and partially reacted material separated from either the crackate or the residue may be recycled to the cracking reactor routed to additional cracking reactors or used in other processes.

A two liter per hour continuous cracking reactor system was used as the cracking reactor. Thermal cracking under vacuum conditions was applied to soybean oil. Output from the cracking reactor crackate was analyzed and then processed further. The light hydrocarbons were removed in a packed distillation column and the heaviest were removed using a second packed distillation column. This produced a middle distillate liquid containing a high percentage of short chain carboxylic acids. The middle distillate was then mixed with an equal amount of room temperature purified water and the oil and water phases were then separated. This step removed most of the C2 C4 fatty acids. The oil from this extraction was then mixed with an equal amount of 1M NaOH in purified water and the oil and aqueous phases were then separated. Table 4 summarizes the results of the short chain fatty acid extractions with water and NaOH. The amounts of short chain fatty acids SCFA extracted are represented by w w of middle distillate .

As in Example 1 a middle distillate containing a high percentage of short chain carboxylic acids was produced from soybean oil. Middle distillate was then mixed in a separatory funnel with a 25 w w aqueous solution of trimethylamine at room temperature. The amount of aqueous amine solution added was such that 0.002 moles of trimethylamine were present for each gram of middle distillate . The aqueous and organic phases were then separated and the acid number of middle distillate was measured according to ASTM method D3242. illustrates the results of the short chain fatty acid extraction with aqueous amine. As shown the acid number of middle distillate after extraction falls to near zero indicating that virtually all of the fatty acids were extracted into the aqueous phase.

Using the data gathered from these experiments an ASPEN Plus simulation model was generated for a series of distillation columns to separate and purify the short chain carboxylic acids based on volatility. The simulation results are illustrated in . A mixture of fatty carboxylic acids is delivered via pump P through heat exchanger HX to distillation column T. Fatty acids having two to five carbon atoms in the carbon chain are separated from the mixture and sent to distillation column T. Fatty acids having two or three carbon atoms are separated and sent to distillation column T. Distillation column T separates the two carbon fatty acid acetic acid from the three carbon fatty acid propanoic acid . Likewise fatty acids having four or five carbon atoms are sent from distillation column T to distillation column T. Distillation column T separates the four carbon fatty acid butyric acid from the five carbon fatty acid valeric acid . In a similar fashion distillation column T separates fatty acids having six or seven carbon atoms from those having eight or more. Fatty acids having six or seven carbon atoms are sent to distillation column T where the six carbon fatty acid hexanoic acid is separated from the seven carbon fatty acid heptanoic acid . Estimated yields are listed in for the simulated purification.

The method of producing short chain carboxylic acids and acid esters described herein provides a useful tool for creating valuable chemical compounds from biomass rather than petroleum precursors. The method also allows for the coproduction of chemical compounds useful in fuel applications using the same cracking parameters. Efficiency gains are realized by being able to generate two sets of useful chemical compounds using steps that share some of the same processing conditions.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

