---

title: Digital rights management and audience measurement systems and methods
abstract: Digital rights management and audience measurement systems and methods are disclosed. An example method includes receiving a request to upload media content to a content distributor, attempting to obtain a code associated with the media content, querying a program information database for program information associated with the media content using the code, and applying a business rule to the media content based on the program information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08249992&OS=08249992&RS=08249992
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 08249992
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080321
---
This patent claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 919 466 filed Mar. 22 2007 entitled DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT AND AUDIENCE MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 910 717 filed Apr. 9 2007 entitled DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT AND AUDIENCE MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 914 168 filed Apr. 26 2007 entitled DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT AND AUDIENCE MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 939 527 filed May 22 2007 entitled DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT AND AUDIENCE MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 029 155 filed Feb. 15 2008 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS TO CONTROL THE TRANSMISSION OF MEDIA CONTENT. The disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure pertains to monitoring media content and more particularly to digital rights management and audience measurements systems and methods.

The shift from analog storage of media content to digital storage of media content has led to a rapid increase in the unauthorized distribution of media content. A consumer that purchases a single copy of media content can distribute the content to any number of other parties with little to no cost. In order to delay discourage and or stop such distribution media content producers and providers have searched for systems that will prevent unauthorized distribution without greatly affecting the ability of authorized holders of media content to enjoy that content. One method for preventing use or unauthorized distribution of media content is through technological access controls which are often referred to as digital rights management DRM .

User submitted content sites are websites e.g. websites on the internet that allow users to submit content that is made available to others via the website. For example the website YouTube allows users to submit video content that is made available to the public via the website. User submitted content sites historically have not performed active monitoring of content uploaded to the website due to the difficulty in performing such monitoring and the amount of content submitted to the website. Rather such websites typically only remove content that is not authorized for distribution when the content has been flagged by a user of the site or the site has received a letter from a content owner. Accordingly user submitted content sites are often used for the distribution of media content that is not authorized for such distribution.

Internet based distribution of content e.g. audio video and or otherwise offers media producers and distributors e.g. studios television stations etc. new opportunities to monetize their content by reaching new audiences and or exploiting the benefits of so called long tail economics. The example methods and apparatus described herein facilitate the deployment of media identification and management solutions to ensure media content is legally used and or the content owners are properly compensated for such use. In addition the example methods and apparatus provide a mechanism to facilitate targeted advertisement by better understanding the content being viewed and the audience viewing it. At least some of the example methods and apparatus described herein 

As set forth in detail below the copyright verification and or audience measurement functions may be achieved in one or more different manners. Some example implementations make use of audience measurement codes which are embedded by broadcasters e.g. television and or radio broadcasters in broadcasted content to identify content and or to cross reference a database to determine if the content is copyrighted and or authorized for distribution. Because such audience measurement codes may be corrupted and or removed intentionally or as part of an encoding compression process some examples described below provide for insertion of audience measurement codes at other points in the distribution chain e.g. at a content distributor such as YouTube Google and or Yahoo by a browser and or encoder at a media device etc. and or for the collection of other content identifiers e.g. metadata associated with the content and or for the collection of one or more signatures representative of such substantially unique characterization of the content.

Irrespective of the method of content identification employed the collected identification information e.g. codes signatures metadata etc. is used to cross reference a database to determine whether the identified content is copyrighted and or authorized for further distribution. This information provides a vehicle to enable content providers such as for example YouTube Google and or Yahoo to determine whether to distribute the content e.g. to decide not to distribute copyrighted material without authorization and or provide a vehicle to enable such content distributor to request and or obtain authority to distribute the content. The methods and apparatus described herein may also be used for monitoring and detection of media content in a person to person P2P network. As a further extension it enables the content distributor to pay for and or facilitate payment for the distribution of copyrighted material.

To facilitate audience measurement some example implementations discussed below insert one or more machine readable monitoring instructions into content. This can be done in response to an indication that content is authorized for distribution. The machine readable instructions can be written in any language e.g. Java JavaScript etc. and may be embedded in the content such that accessing the content requires and or results in execution of the machine readable instructions e.g. at the media device . Execution of the instructions results in the collection of audience measurement information e.g. operating system events at the media device user identification information media device identifier network address time of day time of exposure fast forward information number of accesses of content etc. and the transfer of the collected audience measurement information to an audience measurement collection site such as DRMAM server . The monitoring instructions can be operated in accordance with the teachings of for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 108 637 entitled Content Display Monitor and issued on Aug. 22 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The DRM functionality and the audience measurement functionality described herein can be provided by the same or different devices and or entities.

The example DRMAM system of includes any number and or type s of media devices such as but not limited to personal computers set top boxes digital video recorders MP3 players compression and or digitizing equipment web browsers smart phones cellular phones and or personal digital assistants. The example media devices of can obtain receive and or download content from any number and or types of sources. For example the media devices may receive content from any number and or types of content providers and or any number and or types of content distributors . The media devices may receive content from the content providers via any number and or types of methods and or devices including but not limited to a satellite communication signal a radio frequency signal e.g. a cable television signal an over the air signal etc. a data communication network e.g. the Internet and or one or more media store s e.g. a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a video cassette a hard disk drive HDD and or a memory device .

The example media devices of can also upload and or provide content to any or all of the example content distributors . Such content may then be made available to other media devices by the content distributor s . For example the uploaded content may be downloaded and or obtained by another media device . An example content distributor is a website that allows subscribers to upload download and or share media e.g. movies and or music via one or more web pages such as Google and or YouTube . The content distributors may also receive content from any or all of the content providers .

To protect for example copyrighted materials the example DRMAM system of utilizes and or implements digital rights management technologies. For example content of the example DRMAM system may contain one or more embedded digital watermarks to a enable the identification of content owners and or content creators to b verify the authenticity of content and or c to determine whether permission to distribute the content has been granted and to whom. As used herein a content identifier is any type of data and or information associated with inherent to embedded with inferable from and or injected into a piece of content and which may be used to identify that piece of content. Audience measurement codes e.g. audio watermarks video watermarks vertical blanking interval VBI codes image watermarks and or any other watermarks public or private identifiers in bit streams e.g. program identification PID headers closed captioning information metadata or any other type s of data can serve as content identifiers. A content identifier such as an audio and or video watermark is generally not noticeable to the audience during playback but this is not necessarily so. An example data structure that may be used to represent and or store content identifiers is described below in connection with .

In some examples the example DRMAM system of implements methods and or apparatus to preserve embedded content identifiers during the uploading of content from a media device to a content distributor . However if content identifiers are not preserved e.g. because a media device does not implement the technologies described herein due to corrupted and or erroneous content due to excessive compression format conversion s due to user error and or due to malicious activity the example DRMAM system of may identify such potentially corrupted and or unauthorized content. In some examples such unauthorized and or corrupted content may be removed and or restricted from being distributed and or may have content identification information re inserted in order to restore content protection. Such re insertions of content identification information may be performed and or facilitated by the DRMAM system the content distributor and or the media device .

The example DRMAM system of may also in some examples utilize signatures e.g. audio signature s video signature s image signature s and or otherwise to identify content in the absence of a content identifier e.g. an audio audience measurement code and or when the content has had one or more other content identifiers removed and or disturbed by a media device . Signatures may be created based on any portion s of a signal that substantially and or uniquely identify the signal.

The example DRMAM system of may additionally or alternatively measure and or estimate the size and or demographics of an audience exposed to one or more pieces of content. For example machine executable code e.g. a JAVA applet JavaScript a common gateway interface CGI script etc. may be inserted into content such that when a piece of content is downloaded played viewed and or listened to at and or by a media device the media device executes the machine executable code thereby causing the media device accessing the content to notify the DRMAM server of the content consumption. For example the media device when executing the machine executable code may send to the DRMAM server a message containing audience measurement information such as for example media device identifier user identifier content identifier consumption time consumption duration network location geographic location content provider etc. However if such machine executable code is not present and or was not preserved in a piece of content e.g. due to a media device not implementing the technologies described herein due to corruption due to user error and or due to malicious activity the example system of may insert and or restore the machine readable code. For example the content distributors and or the DRMAM server can use extracted content identifiers e.g. codes and or determined signatures to identify the content and thus identify create insert and or re insert the missing audience measurement machine executable instructions. Methods and apparatus to use machine executable code associated with content to perform audience measurement are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 108 637 entitled Content Display Monitor and issued on Aug. 22 2000.

To locate validate and or catalog content being managed and or made available for distribution the example DRMAM system of may include a media crawler . The example media crawler of locates and or identifies content available to the example media devices and then verifies and or enables another entity to verify that the content distributors of the located content are authorized to distribute the content. The media crawler may also compile a list of available content that may be searched e.g. using a web based search engine by the media devices and or users of the media devices . Data collected by the media crawler may be stored for example on by and or within the example DRMAM server . Additionally or alternatively the example media crawler may generate one or more reports of located and or identified content and or provide any portion of the collected data to one or more of the content providers and or the content distributors . An example manner of implementing the example media crawler is described below in connection with .

To interface with content providers e.g. to receive new content and or content identifiers to store received content and or content identifiers in the content database to receive a content check request etc. the example DRMAM server of includes a content provider interface . To interface with content distributors e.g. receive new content and or content identifiers and or to verify uploaded content the example DRMAM server of includes a content distributor interface . To interface with media devices e.g. to receive audience measurement information to receive and or send content verification approval information etc. the example DRMAM server of includes a media device interface . For example the media device interface may receive a ping from a media device in order to refresh an access license e.g. a time restricted license . To interface with the media crawler e.g. to perform content check requests to receive information about located equipment and or content etc. the example DRMAM server of includes a media crawler interface . The example interfaces and may be implemented using any number and or type s of protocols e.g. Internet protocol IP and or messages.

To extract audience measurement codes e.g. audio video image and or otherwise for the content data the example DRMAM server of includes any type of code engine e.g. an audio code engine . Using any type s of method s algorithm s circuit s device s and or technique s the example code engine searches locates and or decodes codes e.g. audio codes from the content data . As described above codes are commonly used in the audience measurement industry for the purposes of detecting the consumption of and or exposure to content. Any methods and systems for insertion and detection of codes may be used such as for example Nielsen systems systems from Thomson etc. As also described above codes can be inserted in or associated with content for audience measurement and or DRM purposes and or codes can be provided for other purposes e.g. for timing such as PID headers . However not all content is associated with codes.

To collect and or generate signatures e.g. audio video image and or otherwise for the content data the example DRMAM server of includes any type of signature engine e.g. an audio signature engine . Using any type s of method s algorithm s circuit s device s and or technique s the example signature engine of processes the content data to determine and or generate one or more fingerprints and or signatures that substantially identify and or uniquely identify the content data . Any methods and systems for collection and or generation of signatures may be used such as for example Nielsen systems systems from Thomson etc. An example audio signature may be computed via data compression applied to an audio portion of the content data .

To extract other types of content identifiers in addition to or instead of content identifiers extracted collected and or generated by the example code engine and or the example signature engine e.g. public and or private identifiers contained in bit streams closed captioning information program guide information and or metadata for the content data the example DRMAM server of includes any type of content identifier engine . Using any type s of method s algorithm s circuit s device s and or technique s the example content identifier engine searches locates and or decodes content identifiers for the content data . However not all content has inserted content identifiers. The content identifier engine and the code engine may be combined and or one or both of those structures may be eliminated to suit a particular implementation. Similarly the signature engine may be eliminated and or combined with one or both of the content identifier engine and or the code engine .

While an example manner of implementing a DRMAM server has been illustrated in one or more of the data structures elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any way. Further the example databases and the example interfaces and the example engines and and or more generally the example DRMAM server may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Further still the example DRMAM server may include data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated data structures elements processes and or devices.

To allow media device s to upload and or provide content the example content distributor of includes a content upload interface such as for example any type of web based interface e.g. one or more web pages . The example content upload interface of provides uploaded and or received content to a content authorizer . The example content authorizer verifies whether the content distributor is authorized and or allowed to distribute the uploaded content before the content is stored in the content stores and or made available to the media devices . Additionally or alternatively the content authorizer can check the validity of the content e.g. authorization to distribute the content during download and or when a request to download the content has been received at the content distributor . In some examples the example content authorizer is provided and or licensed by for example the owner and or operator of the example DRMAM server to for example the owner and or operator of the example content distributor of . For example the content authorizer could be implemented by a standalone computing platform and or one or more pieces of software and or firmware to which other portions of the example content distributor interface via for example a content authorization application programming interface API . In some examples the example content authorizer sends an instruction s to the media device via the content upload interface. The instruction s can for example instruct the media device how to handle the media content e.g. disable the media content prevent access to the media content destroy the media content set an expiration date for the media content reduce the quality for presentation of the media content etc. . For example the content authorizer may send to the media device an instruction to destroy media content when it is determined that the media content is not authorized for distribution and or presentation.

In some examples any or all of the content identifier checker the code engine the signature engine e.g. an audio signature engine and or the metadata extractor are not implemented by the content authorizer . In such examples the extraction and or determination of codes signatures and or other content identifiers may be performed at the DRMAM server . Similarly some or all of the content authorizer may be located and or implemented at another location. For example the content authorizer may be implemented by the DRMAM server and or by and or within a media device used to download content from a content distributor e.g. it could be implemented as a permitted and or licensed plug in to and or for programs developed and or sold by companies such as Macromedia Microsoft Real etc. .

To verify whether the content distributor is authorized and or allowed to distribute the content in question the example content authorizer of includes a DRMAM server interface . The example DRMAM server interface of outputs and or provides content identifiers e.g. metadata signatures audience measurement codes and or other identifiers extracted and or checked by the content identifier checker the code engine and or the signature engine to a DRMAM server . The DRMAM server validates the information received from the content authorizer and responds with information indicating whether the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content. If the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content the content authorizer may receive watermark data and or machine readable audience measurement instructions to be embedded in and or associated with the content. In some examples the DRMAM server and or the content authorizer notifies a content provider when any of its content is detected at a content distributor that implements and or includes the content authorizer .

To prepare authorized content for distribution the example content authorizer of includes any type of content identifier inserter e.g. an encoder that re encodes the content after adding a digital content identifier and or adds a content identifier directly to the already encoded content any type of instruction inserter e.g. that inserts machine executable instruction s and or a reference to any type of executable instruction s into any portion of the content e.g. the metadata to be executed when the content is accessed and or any type of packager e.g. that creates and or stores the content in a data structure suitable for storage in the content stores . To store and or access the packaged content stored by and or within the content stores the example content authorizer of includes a content stores interface .

To download and or provide requested content the example content authorizer of includes the content store interface and a downloader . When content is requested by the example content download interface the content store interface of retrieves the requested content from the content stores and provides the retrieved content to one or more of the content identifier checker the code engine the signature engine and or the metadata extractor . As described above the content identifier checker the code engine the signature engine the signature engine and or the DRMAM server interface then verify that the requested content is authorized to be downloaded. However authorization to download content need not be performed when the download is performed. For example content distribution authorization may be checked and or verified during upload thereby eliminating the need to perform distribution authorization during download and or content distribution authorization may be checked and or verified on content already stored but possibly not previously checked and or verified in the content stores e.g. in an offline processing model . However the verification of authorization during download allows a content provider and or the DRMAM server to change content distribution privileges over time and or to maintain and or monitor the authenticity of content stored by and or within the content stores .

When the DRMAM server interface receives an indication that the requested content is authorized to be downloaded the example downloader of provides the content retrieved by the example content store interface to the example content download interface . However if the authorization of the content is not to be verified the downloader provides the retrieved content to the content download interface without waiting for direction from the DRMAM server interface . Moreover if content identifiers and or machine executable audience measurement instructions are to be inserted into or otherwise associated with the retrieved content the retrieved content may be first processed by one or more of the content identifier inserter the instruction inserter and or the packager .

To obtain television guide information the example content authorizer of includes a television guide database interface . The example television guide database interface may be used to query a television guide database server to obtain metadata program name program description genre etc. for the content .

To obtain content consumption ratings the example content authorizer of includes a ratings database interface . The example ratings database interface of may be used to query a ratings database server e.g. one or more Nielsen Company databases to obtain historical and or current ratings and or demographics information and or data for the content .

To extract codes from the content or a signal e.g. a digital data stream associated with the content the example content authorizer of includes a code extractor . The example code extractor of searches for identifies and or extracts one or more codes e.g. audio video image and or otherwise contained in or associated with the content .

To identify a content owner and or distributor the example content authorizer of includes a distributor and or content owner identifier . For example based on one or more codes obtained by the example code extractor the example distributor and or content owner identifier of determines a content owner and or distributor for the content by using the code s to index a database mapping codes to content owners and or distributors. Additionally or alternatively the example distributor and or content owner identifier may utilize the example back office interface of to obtain the content owner and or distributor for the content for example by passing obtained codes to the back office for code matching.

To determine e.g. compute signatures the example content authorizer of includes any type of signature engine e.g. an audio signature engine . Using any type s of method s algorithm s circuit s device s and or technique s the example signature engine of processes the content data to determine and or generate one or more fingerprints and or signatures that substantially identify and or uniquely identify the content data . An example signature may be computed via applying data compression to an audio portion of the content data .

If the example code extractor of cannot identify suitable codes in or associated with the content signatures generated by the example signature engine may be used by the example distributor and or content owner identifier and or the example back office interface to identify the content owner and or distributor for the content . Alternatively codes and signatures can both be used to reduce the search space and or for other purposes.

To implement business and or copyright rules for uploaded content the example content authorizer of includes a business rules agent . The example business rules agent of automatically applies one or more rules such as for example removing copyrighted content paying a royalty to the content owner negotiating a license for the content with the content owner adding the content to an existing content owner contract etc.

To associate advertisements with the content the example content authorizer of includes an advertising agent . The example advertising agent of uses historical and or current ratings data and or information e.g. obtained via the example ratings database interface and metadata e.g. obtained via the television Guide database interface to identify e.g. identify an advertisement that is related to the media content identifying an advertisement or advertiser that desires to advertise with the media content match the media content to criteria indicated by an advertiser etc. and or negotiate e.g. indicate a requested cost for displaying an advertisement with advertisers that may be interested in having their advertisements associated with the content . Such advertisements could be provided and or displayed when the content is downloaded by for example a user of the example content distributor of .

While an example manner of implementing any or all of the content distributors of has been illustrated in A and or B one or more of the data structures elements processes and or devices illustrated in A and or B may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example interfaces and the example content stores the example content authorizer the example watermark checker the example engines the example watermark inserter the example instruction inserter the packager the example downloader the example code extractor the example distributor and or content owner identifier the example signature engine the example business rules agent the example advertising agent and or more generally the example content distributor of A and or B may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example interfaces and the example content stores the example content authorizer the example watermark checker the example engines the example watermark inserter the example instruction inserter the packager the example downloader the example code extractor the example distributor and or content owner identifier the example signature engine the example business rules agent the example advertising agent and or more generally the example content distributor of A and or B could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software implementation at least one of the example interfaces and the example content stores the example content authorizer the example watermark checker the example engines the example watermark inserter the example instruction inserter the packager the example downloader the example code extractor the example distributor and or content owner identifier the example signature engine the example business rules agent the example advertising agent and or more generally the example content distributor of A and or B are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. Further still the example content distributor may include data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in A and or B and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated data structures elements processes and or devices.

To interface with any or all of the example content providers any or all of the example content distributors and or the example DRMAM server the example media device of includes a content provider interface a content distributor interface and an audience measurement interface respectively. The example interfaces and may be implemented using any protocol s e.g. IP and or messages. To store content the example media device of includes any number and or types of storage device interface that facilitates storage of content on any number and or types of storage devices such as for example a hard disk drive HDD a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a memory and or a memory device.

To play and or view content the example media device of includes any number and or types of content decoders e.g. a JPEG decoder an MP3 decoder and or an MPEG decoder and any number and or types of content output devices e.g. a display a screen and or a speaker . To encode content e.g. prior to transmission to a content distributor the example media device of includes an encoder . In some examples the encoder preserves any content identifiers e.g. watermarks codes metadata etc. and or any audience measurement executable instructions present in the content by for example removing them and then re inserting them after and or during content encoding. For example the decoder and or the encoder transcode e.g. decode and then encode in a different format and or converts content received via any of the example interfaces and between one or more formats thereby causing the content to be suitable for upload to for example a content distributor . In particular the encoder can implement a content identifier engine e.g. a code engine to detect content identifiers contained in the content and or to re insert and or encode the content identifiers for a new content format. Methods and apparatus to transcode content and or content identifiers are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0242325 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Transcoding Metadata and published on Oct. 26 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While the blocks of are described as implementing the media device the same or substantially similar blocks may be used to implement a device at a content distributor e.g. the content distributor at a content provider e.g. the content provider or device or system. For example the content distributor may transcode media content using similar blocks to those described in conjunction with .

While an example manner of implementing any or all of the media devices of has been illustrated in one or more of the data structures elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any way. Further the example controller the example interfaces and the example decoder the example playback device the example encoder and or more generally the example media device may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example controller the example interfaces and the example decoder the example playback device the example encoder and or more generally the example media device could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software implementation at least one of the example controller the example interfaces and the example decoder the example playback device the example encoder and or more generally the example media device are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. Further still the example media device may include data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated data structures elements processes and or devices. For example the media device may include some all or any portion s of the example content authorizer of and or B to determine an authorization to upload distribute download consume play and or otherwise process content.

To store content data and any embedded watermark s e.g. audience measurement codes the example data structure of includes data . The example data may be implemented in accordance with any past present and or future specification and or standard e.g. MP3 JPEG MPEG 3 etc. .

To store information concerning content identifiers e.g. audience measurement codes PID headers other codes and or signatures each of the example entries of includes a content identifier s field and a signature s field . To store machine executable instruction s and or a reference to the same that may be executed to provide audience measurement information concerning for example monitoring a media device accessing the associated content each of the example entries of includes an executable instruction s field . To store information concerning media devices that uploaded the content each of the example entries of includes a device identifier s field . The example device identifier s field of contains one or more values and or strings that represent a sequence of characters identifying one or more media devices and or content distributors that may have transcoded transmitted shared and or uploaded the content. This identification information may include device serial number IP address a license number an authentication parameter and or a combination thereof. Information in the example metadata field and or information in the example device identifier s field may be used to track and or determine who has modified and or distributed the content. For example the metadata field can identify an originating content distributor and the device identifier s field can identify the particular user and or media device that uploaded the content and or identify the particular content distributor who distributed the content.

While example data structures have been illustrated in the content database and or content may be implemented using any number of additional and or alternative fields and or entries.

The illustrated example of is similar to the example described above in connection with but in this example the content is not authorized for distribution. In the illustrated example of the media device receives content from a content provider block and then encodes the received content e.g. to apply additional compression and or to format the content prior to upload to a particular content distributor block . When the media device uploads the content to the content distributor block the content distributor checks if the uploaded content contains a valid content identifier ID e.g. a code block . In the example of the content contains a valid content identifier and the content distributor sends an authorization check request to the DRMAM server block . The DRMAM server then determines if the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content block . However in the illustrated example of in contrast to the example of the content distributor is not authorized to distribute the content. Accordingly the DRMAM server sends an authorization failed response to the content distributor block who subsequently sends an upload rejected response which may or may not identify the reason for the rejection as a copyright issue to the media device block . In addition the content distributor e.g. the DRMAM server interface the content identifier checker etc. and or the DRMAM server may send an instruction or indication to the media device that instructs and or forces the media device to delete disable revoke a license or prevent access to the media content. For example if the DRMAM server and or the content distributor determines that the media content is not authorized for presentation by the media device the DRMAM server and or the content distributor sends an instruction to the media device to erase the media content establish an expiration date upon which the media content becomes unusable display a warning message at the media device etc. The media device may then transmit an indication notification message etc. to the content distributor and or the DRMAM server indicating that the media content was or was not successfully deleted.

The illustrated example of proceeds similar to that described above in connection with but in this example no content ID is present in the media content. In the illustrated example of the media device receives content from a content provider block . At some later point in time e.g. seconds minutes hours days weeks months and or years the media device encodes the received content e.g. to apply additional compression and or to format the content prior to upload to a particular content distributor block . When the media device uploads the content to the content distributor block the content distributor checks if the uploaded content contains a valid content identifier ID e.g. an audience measurement code block . However in the illustrated example of the uploaded content received by the content distributor does not contain a content identifier block . The content distributor generates one or more signatures e.g. audio video image and or otherwise block and sends an authorization request to the DRMAM server containing the generated signature s block . The DRMAM server then checks the signatures block and determines if the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content block . In the illustrated example the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content and thus the DRMAM server sends an authorized response to the content distributor block . Moreover because the content did not contain a content identifier the DRMAM server includes one or more content identifiers in its response block . The content distributor notifies the media device of the authorized upload block adds the content identifier s to the content block creates and or associates machine readable instruction s with the content e.g. executable code to collect audience measurement information or enforce digital rights management rule block and then stores the content for distribution to media devices block .

In the example of content identifiers may be for example an audience measurement code e.g. audio video image and or otherwise inserted into or otherwise associated with the content by for example a content broadcaster or a content distributor to identify the content as is commonly done today in the audience measurement industry. Other types of codes and or metadata could additionally or alternatively be employed. If such a content identifier is not present the content distributor can collect and or compute one or more signatures of the content signal to facilitate identification of the content signal by comparison of the collected and or computed signature s against a database of signature s . The content distributor may also collect such signatures when a content identifier is present in whole or in part as might occur due to noise or compression and or may collect other codes such as program identification headers PIDs for digital program streams metadata associated with the content or any other available indicator to facilitate identification of the content. In some examples when a content distributor inserts content identifiers into content they among other things identify that the content distributor e.g. local television station YouTube etc. is distributing the content and also identify the originating content provider e.g. NBC of the content. Thus the content identifier s can be used to specify and or identify either or both the source and the distributor s of the content.

The illustrated example of proceeds similar to that described above in connection with but no signature is created at the content distributor . In the illustrated example of the media device receives content from a content provider block and at some later time and or date encodes the received content e.g. to apply additional compression and or to format the content prior to upload to a particular content distributor block . When the media device uploads the content to the content distributor block the content distributor checks if the uploaded content contains a valid content identifier ID e.g. an audience measurement code block . In the illustrated example of like the example of the uploaded content received by the content distributor does not contain a content identifier. However rather than generating a signature s in the illustrated example of the content distributor transfers the content to the DRMAM block and the DRMAM server rather than the content distributor collects and or generates the signature s e.g. audio video image and or otherwise block . The DRMAM server checks the signature s block and then determines if the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content block . In the illustrated example the content distributor is authorized to distribute the content and thus the DRMAM server sends an authorized response to the content distributor block . Moreover because the content did not contain a content identifier the DRMAM server includes one or more content identifiers in its response block . The content distributor notifies the media device of the authorized upload block adds the content identifier s to the content block creates and or associates machine readable audience measurement and or DRM instruction s with the content block and then stores the content for distribution to media devices block .

In the illustrated examples of the content distributor and or the DRMAM server check and or determine the authorization to upload store and or download content. However the example media device may additionally or alternatively attempt to detect content ID s compute signatures and or use the same to determine whether the device is authorized to upload and or download the content in question. For example the media device may contain include and or implement all or any portion of any or all of the example content authorizers of A and or B and or include functionality and or an interface so that the media device may interact with the DRMAM server i.e. without going through the content distributor to authorize a content upload and or download.

The examples of illustrate the operation of the media device during the display and or playback of content. Because the operations are similar are described together. The media device receives content from the content provider or a content distributor block . The media device decodes the content block . If the received content contains one or more machine executable audience measurement and or DRM instructions e.g. in the metadata of the content as part of an HTML file as a reference to retrieve such instructions from a network server etc. block the media device executes the instructions before during or after it displays the content performs the associated operation e.g. sends a notification to the DRMAM server etc. and sends audience measurement information such as a playback notification or user interaction information to the DRMAM server e.g. destroys the content after a set number of accesses etc. block .

Next the example content decoder decodes the content block and the example content encoder encodes the content block . For example the content may be decoded and encoded i.e. transcoded to convert the content from a first encoding format to a second encoding format e.g. when media content is to be uploaded to a website that requires a format different than the original format of the media content . After the media content is transcoded the example controller determines if one or more content ID s were found in block block . If one or more content ID s were not found block control proceeds to block which is described below.

If one or more content ID s were found block the controller inserts the content ID s into the transcoded media content or otherwise associating the content ID s with the transcoded media content block . For example decoding block and encoding block may remove the content ID s or cause the content ID s to be rendered unreadable. Therefore the controller re associates the content ID s detected at block . Alternatively if decoding block and encoding block does not affect the content ID s block and or block may be skipped.

The example controller then determines if one or more executable instruction s were found in block block . If one or more executable instruction s were not found in block block control proceeds to block which is described below. If one or more executable instruction s were found in block block the example controller associates the executable instructions or a link to the same with the media content block . For example decoding block and encoding block may remove the executable instruction s and or the link to the same or cause the executable instruction s or the link reference to the instructions to be rendered unreadable. Therefore the controller reinserts the executable instruction s extracted in block . Alternatively if decoding block and encoding block does not affect the executable instruction s block and or block may be skipped.

The example controller of the example media device then stores the re encoded media content and or uploads the media content to a content distributor block .

The flowchart of begins when the content authorizer of the content distributor in question determines if a media content at the example content distributor includes or is associated with one or more content ID s block . If the content authorizer determines that one or more content ID s were found block the counter authorizer uses the content ID s to authorize the content block . The content authorizer may use any method for authorizing identified content such as for example reviewing authorization records for the content ID s available at the content distributor e.g. stored in the content stores requesting authorization for the content associated with the content ID s from the DRMAM server etc. In addition the content authorizer may verify the content ID s prior to authorizing the content. For example the content authorizer may verify a signature or metadata associated with the content containing the content ID s matches a signature or metadata associated with reference content associated with the content ID s . Such a match limits or avoids the possibility of spoofing e.g. associating false content ID s with unauthorized content to pass the content off as other content .

If the content authorizer determines that one or more content ID s were not found block the content authorizer generates one or more signature s for the media content block . The content authorizer then uses the signature s for authorizing the content block . The content authorizer then determines if the content was authorized for upload use block . If the content was not authorized for upload use block the content authorizer notifies the content owner and or content distributor of the unauthorized content block . The content authorizer then rejects the upload request block . The machine readable instructions of are then complete. The operations of blocks and may differ in alternative implementations. For example notifications may be sent out but the content upload may be allowed or the content upload may be allowed while notifications are not sent. Alternatively any other desired operation may be performed such as for example labeling the content assigning the content to a category marking the content for human review requesting further information from the person uploading the content e.g. requesting credentials that establish authorization for uploading the content etc.

If the example content authorizer determines that the content is authorized for upload use block the content authorizer determines if the media content is associated with e.g. includes or links to machine executable instructions block . If it is determined that the media content is associated with executable instructions block control proceeds to block which is described below. If it is determined that the uploaded media content does not include executable instructions block the content authorizer of the illustrated example identifies and or creates executable instructions and associated executable instructions with the media content to be stored block . For example the content authorizer may extract and or generate identifying information based on the media content and may request suitable machine executable instructions e.g. for audience measurement and or DRM purposes from the DRMAM server .

The content authorizer then determines if the uploaded media content includes one or more content ID s block . If the media content includes one or more content ID s control proceeds to block which is described below. If the media content does not include one or more content ID s block the content authorizer creates and associated one or more content ID s with the media content block . For example the content authorizer may use the next number in a list of consecutive content ID s may generate a content ID based on metadata associated with the media content may retrieve a content ID from an external source e.g. the DRMAM server etc. The created content ID s are stored in association with the identity of the content and or its DRM authorization rules for later use.

After adding any machine executable instructions if necessary blocks and and or adding any content ID s if necessary blocks and the content authorizer stores the media content in the content stores . The machine readable instructions of are then complete.

According to the illustrated example the flowchart of is performed after the flowchart of has been performed. Alternatively the flowchart of may be performed at any other time with respect to the flowchart of or may be performed exclusive of performance of .

The flowchart of begins when the code extractor of of the example content authorizer of attempts to extract one or more codes e.g. codes from media content stored at the content authorizer e.g. media content stored in the content stores block . The code extractor then determines if a code was found block . If a code was found block control proceeds to block which is described below.

If a code is not found block the example signature engine computes generates and or extracts a signature of the media content block . Then the signature engine uses the back office interface to query a back office to identify the content in question based on the signature block . For example the signature engine may send a generated signature to the DRMAM server an audience measurement back office etc and request identification of media content associated with that signature. The example signature engine then determines if a match was found based on the signature block . For example the signature engine determines if an identification of the media content in question was received. If a match was not found block the machine readable instructions of terminate. For example if a match is not received it may be determined that the media content is unidentifiable or is not being tracked. In such a case the content may be considered public domain and freely distributed. Other DRM rules may alternatively be applied.

If a match for the media content is found block the television guide database interface queries a television guide database for metadata associated with the identified media content block . The television guide database may be any type of database that stores information about media content such as for example a database providing program scheduling and description information for a television service provider a database provided by an audience measurement services company etc. The ratings database interface then queries a ratings database to obtain ratings information audience demographic information etc. associated with the identified media content or with second media content with which the first media content may be displayed block . Next the business rules agent applies business rules for the content based on the television guide information and or the ratings information block . For example the business rules may specify that copyrighted media content is to be removed a royalty is to be paid to the content owner a license is to be negotiated with the content owner the content is to be added to a content owner contract etc. Rules based on ratings or demographics may also be applied. For example distribution of the content may only be permitted to media devices associated with certain demographics and or media content may only be distributed if it has a rating above or below a threshold and or within a range of ratings. Next the advertisement agent generates an advertisement model for the media content block . For example the advertisement agent may generate an advertisement model campaign description specification proposal etc. based on the television guide information and the ratings information. For example a proposal for presenting an advertisement during a first show e.g. the media content with a high rating may include a higher cost than an advertisement proposal for presenting the advertisement during a second show e.g. a second media content with a lower rating. The machine readable instructions of then terminate.

The example machine accessible instructions of A and B may also be carried out to implement the example operations described above in connection with to monitor and control access to media content. In particular the machine accessible instructions may be carried out to monitor and or authorize media content that is uploaded to a media distributor e.g. YouTube etc. to search and or crawl a network e.g. the internet for media content to monitor and or authorized etc.

To extract locate and or verify content identifiers present in associated with and or contained in an identified piece of content the example media crawler of includes a content identifier checker . The example content identifier checker of may attempt to obtain an audience measurement code and or may extract other content identifier s e.g. metadata public identifiers private identifiers other content identifiers etc. from the content. The content identifiers may be any data associated with the content e.g. within metadata and or embedded within audio image and or video data . The media crawler of the illustrated example includes a signature engine to generate compute and or extract a signature or other identifying data e.g. an identification unique to a particular media content from the media content. In some examples any or all of the content identifier checker and or the signature engine e.g. an audio signature engine are not implemented by the media crawler . In such examples the media crawler collects copies of content and the extraction determination and or validation of content identifiers may be performed at the DRMAM server .

To verify whether a content provider is authorized to distribute a located piece of content the example media crawler of includes a content verifier and a DRMAM server interface . The example content verifier sends the content or a sample thereof e.g. in the case where code and or signature extraction is performed at the DRMAM server and or sends the extracted and or generated content identifier s e.g. a code signature and or metadata to the DRMAM server via the DRMAM server interface . The server validates the information received from the media crawler . If the content is authorized the DRMAM server can catalog and or record that the content is available at the particular content distributor e.g. website from which the media crawler retrieved the same. If the content is not authorized the media crawler and or the DRMAM server can notify the content distributor e.g. website operator and or the originating content provider e.g. television studio that content is being illegally distributed at that content distributor . Thus the DRMAM system can serve a copyright policing function.

Data collected by the example media crawler of may be stored for example on by and or within the example DRMAM server . Additionally or alternatively the example media crawler may generate one or more reports of located and or identified content and or provide any portion of the collected data to one or more of the content providers and or the content distributors .

While an example manner of implementing the example media crawler of has been illustrated in one or more of the data structures elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any of a variety of ways. Further the example locators and the content identifier checker the signature engine the content verifier and or the interface and or more generally the example media crawler may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example locators and the content identifier checker the signature engine the content verifier and or the interface and or more generally the example media crawler could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software implementation at least one of the example locators and the content identifier checker the signature engine the content verifier and or the interface and or more generally the example media crawler are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. Further still the example media crawler may include data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated data structures elements processes and or devices.

The flowchart of begins when the content ID checker of of the media crawler determines if media content at a site includes one or more content ID s block . For example the site locator may locate a site that provides content and the content locator may locate first media content at that site. If the content ID checker determines that one or more content ID s were found block the content verifier uses the content ID s to authorize the content e.g. verify a license for distribution request a license for distribution etc. via the DRMAM server interface block . The content verifier may additionally verify the content ID s prior to authorizing the content. For example the content verifier may compare a signature or metadata associated with the content to a database to determine if it matches a signature or metadata associated with reference content associated with the content ID s . If there is no match the content ID s may be identified as a spoofing attempt.

If the content ID checker determines that one or more content ID s were not found block the signature engine generates one or more signature s for the media content block . The content verifier then uses the signature s for authorizing the content block . The content verifier then determines if the content was authorized for upload use block . If the content was not authorized for upload use block the content verifier notifies the content owner and or content distributor of the unauthorized content block . Control then proceeds to block which is described below.

If the content verifier determines that the media content was authorized block the content verifier sends the media content to the DRMAM server interface for addition to a content catalog block . For example the media content may be sent to the DRMAM for storage in a content catalog at the DRMAM may be sent to a content catalog at one of the content distributors or may be sent to any other content catalog.

After adding media content to the content catalog block or notifying the content owner or content distributor block the content locator determines if there is additional content at the site to be crawled block . If there is additional content available at the site block control returns to block to crawl that content. If there is not additional content available at the site block the site locator determines if there are further sites to crawl block . If there are further sites to crawl block control returns to block to crawl the next site. If there are no further sites to crawl block the machine readable instructions of terminate.

The example machine accessible instructions of A B and or may be carried out by a processor a controller and or any other suitable processing device. For example the example machine accessible instructions of A B and or may be embodied in coded instructions stored on a tangible medium such as a flash memory a read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM associated with a processor e.g. the example processor discussed below in connection with . Alternatively some or all of the example machine accessible instructions of A B and or may be implemented using any combination s of application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Thus for example any of the example content distributors or the example media crawlers e.g. the site locator the content locator the content ID checker the signature engine the content verifier and or the DRMAM server interface and or more generally the example audience measurement system could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software implementation at least one of the example content distributors or the example media crawlers e.g. the site locator the content locator the content ID checker the signature engine the content verifier and or the DRMAM server interface and or more generally the example audience measurement system are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. Also some or all of the example machine accessible instructions of A B and or may be implemented manually or as any combination of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further although the example machine accessible instructions of A B and are described with reference to the flowcharts of A B and many other methods of implementing the machine accessible instructions of A B and or may be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or one or more of the blocks described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example machine accessible instructions of A B and or may be carried out sequentially and or carried out in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc.

The example router of includes a packet receiver to receive communication packets from a packet sender e.g. a user computer via a network . For example if the router is installed at a user generated content website e.g. YouTube the packet receiver receives communication packets from users e.g. a user uploading a video file . If the packet receiver is installed in a service provider s network the packet receiver receives content from users of the service provider network e.g. a website transmitting packets to a subscriber of a service provider network or a subscriber transmitting packets to a website .

The protection extractor receives the received packet from the packet receiver . The protection extractor determines if the received packet is identified as protected. To this end the example protection extractor decodes the received packet to determine if a watermark e.g. an identification code inserted in the content via the Nielsen Audio Encoding System NAES see U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 564 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety any type of audio watermark code any type of video watermark code etc. is present in the content included in the packet. The router may transmit the received packet to the standard router functionality in parallel with the decoding and analysis of the packet. In addition the protection extractor may receive multiple packets e.g. five time consecutive packets and decode and analyze the packets together to determine if a watermark is present. In addition to or as an alternative to determining if a watermark is present the protection extractor may determine if the header of the packet includes a Protection field. In addition the watermark and or the packet header may indicate a source of the protected content. If the packet does not include a watermark and or a Protection field the packet is transmitted to standard router functionality for routing and distribution of the packet. In the illustrated example the packet is routed to a server . Additionally or alternatively the protection extractor may add an identification to the packet header e.g. add or update a Protection field indicating that the content is authorized for transmission so that network elements later in the network distribution path will not need to decode the packet again. For example the protector extractor may add a wrapper to each packet that has been verified may add a field to the packet header may modify a field in the packet header etc. to indicate that the packet stream media content etc. has already been verified. A router or other network or media device that receives the modified media content can analyze the packet header to prior to extracting or otherwise analyzing the packet for verification. Accordingly a verification of the contents of media content can be performed once for a particular packet stream and or media content and the packet header can be analyzed at a later time.

If the packet includes a watermark and or Protection field the protection extractor extracts the watermark and or the contents of the Protection field and transmits the extracted watermark and or contents to a source verifier .

The source verifier receives the watermark and or contents of the Protection field and determines if the received watermark and or contents identifies a source. For example the Protection field may include an identifier that indicates that the content should be blocked or should be allowed no matter who is sending the packet or the Protection field may include one or more identifier s of a source that is allowed to transmit the content to the exclusion of other senders. For example if an included watermark identifies iTunes Music Stores as the source rules for the router may cause the packet to be allowed e.g. transmitted to the standard router functionality .

If the watermark and or Protection field do not identify a source e.g. the Protection field indicates that all transmissions should be blocked the packet is transmitted to the unauthorized packet handler . The unauthorized packet handler applies one or more rules for handling unauthorized packets. In the illustrated example the unauthorized packet handler does not transmit the packet to the standard router functionality for routing. Alternatively the unauthorized packet handler may mark the packet for low priority handling delay transmission of the packet etc. prior to transmitting the packet to the standard router functionality for routing. Additionally or alternatively the unauthorized packet handler may cause subsequent packets associated with the same stream of media content to be treated as unauthorized packets e.g. blocked delayed etc. . In other words the unauthorized packet handler may process packets of a media content stream in parallel with the transmission of the packets through the network e.g. via the router and once a packet of the stream has been determined to be unauthorized may apply unauthorized transmission rules to all later packets e.g. may block or delay all later packets of the same or substantially the same stream. Additionally or alternatively the unauthorized packet handler may add an identification to the packet header e.g. add a Protection field if a Protection field is not present that indicates that the media content is unauthorized media content so that network elements that received the packet later in the distribution path of the network can determine how to handle the media content without having to decode the packet.

If the watermark and or Protection field identifies a source the source verifier retrieves a record associated with the source from a source database . The source database stores records associating one or more IP addresses with a watermark and or a Protection field identifier e.g. IP addresses that have been authorized for transmitting packets identified by the watermark and or Protection field . For example the source database may include a record for the iTunes Music Store that identifies all IP addresses that the iTunes Music Store might use to transmit music to customers. Alternatively the watermark Protection field and or other field of the packet may include an authorized IP address and thus extraction of the source IP address from the source database may not be performed.

The source verifier extracts a source IP address from the source field of the received packet e.g. the actual IP address that sent the packet . The source verifier determines if the IP address from the source field of the received packet matches any of the IP addresses associated with the source identified in the watermark and or Protection field e.g. one or more IP addresses retrieved from the source database or included in the watermark or Protection field . If the IP address from the source field does not match any of the IP addresses associated with the source the unauthorized packet handler applies one or more rules for handling unauthorized packets. In other words if the packet is transmitted by a source that is not associated with the source identified in the watermark and or Protection field i.e. an unauthorized source the packet is treated as an unauthorized packet. If the IP address from the source field matches one of the IP addresses associated with the source the packet is transmitted to the standard router functionality for routing to its destination. As previously described in the illustrated example the packet is routed to the server .

While the forgoing description references router the router may alternatively be implemented by any type of network element such as for example a server a network switch a firewall a gateway a bridge etc.

While the forgoing description describes decoding packets to determine if a single watermark is present media content may alternatively include multiple watermarks that may be verified. The router may include rules for handling multiple watermarks. Also rules for handling conflicting watermarks and or Protection field contents may be defined. For example if a first watermark indicates that media content is protected but a second watermark indicates that media content protection should be ignored the content would be determined to be authorized for transmission. More generally media content having a first protection indicating watermark and a second protection releasing watermark may be allowed to transmit may be delayed in transmission as opposed to content that includes no watermark that is not delayed may be blocked etc.

While the forgoing description indicates that each packet of media content is examined packets passing through the router may be spot checked. In other words the router may randomly check packets or may periodically check packets. Further packets may be analyzed prior to being allowed to pass through the router or packets may be buffered and analyzed in parallel with transmission or offline . If packets are analyzed in parallel or offline and an unauthorized packet is detected all later packets associated with the unauthorized packet may be controlled e.g. may be blocked delayed modified etc. .

In an example operation the example packet sender sends a stream of packets corresponding to media content to the server via the network . The example router is interposed between the network and the server or is an intermediate in the network e.g. packets transmitted from the packet sender enter the network pass through the router and any other network elements and exit the network wherein they are transmitted to the server . The router analyzes the packets as described in the forgoing and as described in conjunction with . If the router determines that the packets are associated with unauthorized media content restricted media content or any other specified type of media content the router applies business rules e.g. blocks the content delays the progression of the media content sends a notification to the server sends a notification to the packet sender marks the packet e.g. inserts an identifier in a packet header etc. . If the business rules allow and or specify that the content is to be transmitted to the server the router routes the packets to the server e.g. via one or more other network elements .

The example flowchart of begins when the example packet receiver receives communication packets from the packet sender e.g. a user computer via the network block . Then the protection extractor determines if the received packet is identified as protected block . If the packet does not include a watermark and or a Protection field block the packet is transmitted to the standard router functionality for routing and distribution of the packet block .

If the packet includes a watermark and or Protection field block the protection extractor extracts the watermark and or the contents of the Protection field and transmits the extracted watermark and or contents to a source verifier block . The source verifier then receives the watermark and or contents of the Protection field and determines if the received watermark and or contents identifies a source block . If the watermark and or Protection field do not identify a source e.g. the Protection field indicates that all transmissions should be blocked block the packet is transmitted to the unauthorized packet handler which applies one or more rules for handling unauthorized packets block . Control then proceeds to block to process the next packet.

If the watermark and or Protection field identifies a source the source verifier retrieves a record associated with the source from a source database block . The source verifier then extracts a source IP address from the source field of the received packet i.e. the actual IP address that sent the packet block . The example source verifier determines if the IP address from the source field of the received packet matches any of the IP addresses associated with the source identified in the watermark and or Protection field e.g. one or more IP addresses retrieved from the source database or included in the watermark or Protection field block . If the IP address from the source field does not match any of the IP addresses associated with the source block the unauthorized packet handler applies one or more rules for handling unauthorized packets block . In other words if the packet is transmitted by a source that is not associated with the source identified in the watermark and or Protection field i.e. an unauthorized source the packet is treated as an unauthorized packet. Control then returns to block to process the next packet.

If the IP address from the source field matches one of the IP addresses associated with the source block the packet is transmitted to the standard router functionality for routing to its destination block . As previously described in the illustrated example the packet is routed to the server . Control then returns to block to process the next packet.

The example machine accessible instructions of may be carried out by a processor a controller and or any other suitable processing device. For example the example machine accessible instructions of may be embodied in coded instructions stored on a tangible medium such as a flash memory a read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM associated with a processor e.g. the example processor discussed below in connection with . Alternatively some or all of the example machine accessible instructions of may be implemented using any combination s of application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Thus for example the example router of e.g. any or all of the packet sender the packet receiver the protection extractor the source verifier the source database the unauthorized packet handler the standard router functionality and or the server could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software implementation at least one of the example router the packet sender the packet receiver the protection extractor the source verifier the source database the unauthorized packet handler the standard router functionality and or the server are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. Also some or all of the example machine accessible instructions of may be implemented manually or as any combination of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further although the example machine accessible instructions of are described with reference to the flowcharts of many other methods of implementing the machine accessible instructions of may be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or one or more of the blocks described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example machine accessible instructions of may be carried out sequentially and or carried out in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc.

Alternatively the packet could include a second Protection Source field. The Protection Source field could be used to indicate a source authorized to transmit a packet. In such an implementation the Protection field would only indicate whether or not the packet is subject to restriction. If the packet included an identifier in the Protection field but the Protection Source field was empty the packet would be subject to unconditional blocking. If the packet includes an identifier in the Protection field and the Protection Source field the source of the packet would be analyzed to ensure that the packet is being transmitted by an authorized source.

The processor platform of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor . The processor executes coded instructions and or present in main memory of the processor e.g. within a RAM and or a ROM . The processor may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor may execute among other things the example machine accessible instructions of A B and or the example operations of and or to implement any or all of the example DRMAM system described herein. The processor is in communication with the main memory including a ROM and or the RAM via a bus . The RAM may be implemented by DRAM SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory and may be controlled by a memory controller not shown . The RAM may be used to store and or implement for example any or all of the example content database the example consumption database and or the example content stores of .

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as a USB interface a Bluetooth interface an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices and one or more output devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input devices and or output devices may be used to implement any or all of the example interfaces of A B and .

The example system of implements a media content authorization system that allows content distributors e.g. YouTube Break.com etc. content providers P2P distribution systems e.g. P2P servers P2P software P2P network elements. etc. and or any other systems that handle media content to verify that media content is authorized for distribution before accepting media content and distributing the media content. The example system utilizes various data sources e.g. a audience ratings data source a program information data source etc. to determine how media content should be handled. Accordingly the example system can make a better determination about whether media content should be distributed. In addition the example system is capable of using the same or different data stores for determining how to display media content. In particular the example system is capable of determining what type of commercials should be displayed in conjunction with media content and determining an amount that should be charged to an advertiser for displaying an advertisement with the media content. Accordingly the example system of provides a more complete solution for handling media content in a network such as at a content distributor or at a media content provider.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

