---

title: System and method for monitoring trades outside of a no-bust range in an electronic trading system
abstract: An alert system that notifies an Exchange's staff of a trade that appears to be outside of an expected market range of prices includes an input device, determination logic, evaluation logic, and alert logic. The determination logic derives a theoretical no-bust range of prices based on data received from the input device. The theoretical no-bust range of prices are prices above and below a synthesized market price, within which an erroneous trade cannot be cancelled. The evaluation logic monitors trades and compares those trades to the theoretical no-bust range of prices. The alert logic notifies the Exchange's staff when the evaluation logic identifies a potentially erroneous trade that lies outside the theoretical no-bust range of prices. A method of notifying the Exchange of a trade that potentially lies outside of an expected range of prices includes monitoring an input range of prices and deriving the theoretical no-bust range of prices. The method then compares transactions prices to the theoretical no-bust range of prices and notifies the Exchange when a potentially erroneous trade can be cancelled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078523&OS=08078523&RS=08078523
owner: Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.
number: 08078523
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081009
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 405 025 filed Mar. 28 2003 which is incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to a system and a method that monitor investments and more particularly to a system and a method that monitor trades outside of a theoretical no bust range in an electronic trading system.

The speed and efficiency through which investments can be executed through electronic trading systems provide many benefits. In many markets Electronic Exchanges facilitate a greater number of market participants than do other Trading Exchanges. The greater the number of market participants the greater the market s liquidity. In liquid markets prices are driven down by competition prices reflect a consensus of what an investment is worth and the trading systems provide a free and open dissemination of information.

While speed and efficiency of many electronic markets can enhance market participant s wealth these same qualities can increase the adverse affect of a trade that is executed in error. Specifically orders executed at prices substantially away from a market price can cause other market participants both in their markets and in related markets to make unsound decisions. In a futures market for example a buyer s large order executed at a price much higher than a prevailing market price can cause other sellers to substantially raise their prices ultimately pricing some buyers out of that market and leading to executed transactions that result in substantial losses for other buyers. In futures markets these errors can induce buyers and sellers in that market in a related derivative market and or in an underlying cash market to make unsound decisions. The harmful effect of an erroneous trade can extend well beyond the market participants of that trade by affecting the integrity of the entire market and other markets. Furthermore undetected erroneous trades may have a lasting impact on historical price information and various technical charting strategies used by market participants.

To mitigate these harmful effects some Exchanges have adopted policies and procedures that in appropriate cases permit the cancellation of a clearly erroneous trade. Some of these Exchanges attempt a prompt resolution of a trade error by establishing a narrow timeframe within which a party may request that a trade be cancelled. To assure that only erroneous trades that may significantly affect other market participants are the only trades subject to cancellation some Exchanges adopted a no bust range. In a no bust range erroneous trades executed within a price range may not be subject to cancellation even if executed in error to avoid penalizing the innocent traders that lack notice. Unfortunately the no bust range can be susceptible to subjectivity as Exchanges are not always able to define an erroneous price. 

Although many policies and procedures are intended to enhance the integrity of markets some are not agile enough to respond to the many errors that an Electronic Exchange encounters. The increasing use of automated arbitrage systems for example allow some market participants to benefit from erroneous prices. Such failures penalize counterparties to those trades and create risk and uncertainty by artificially influencing the value of those trades. Some approaches do not scale well to large networks new products or the large volatility that occurs in those markets that trade popular contracts. These approaches can require repeated modifications that increase price instability and distort price discovery.

The present invention is defined by the following claims. This description summarizes some aspects of the present embodiments and should not be used to limit the claims.

An alert system embodiment for notifying an Exchange staff of a trade that appears to be outside of an expected market range of prices comprises an input device determination logic and evaluation logic. The input device provides data used to generate a theoretical no bust range of prices. The determination logic derives the theoretical no bust range of prices within which an erroneous trade cannot be cancelled. The evaluation logic monitors trades matched through an electronic matching system and compares those trades to the theoretical no bust range of prices. The alert logic provides a notification when the evaluation logic identifies a potentially erroneous trade that lies outside of the theoretical no bust range of prices.

A method of notifying an Exchange of a trade that potentially lies outside of the expected range of prices comprises monitoring an input range of prices deriving a theoretical no bust range of prices monitoring transactions executed by an automated matching system comparing the prices of the transactions to the theoretical no bust range of prices to determine if a potentially erroneous trade can be cancelled and notifying an Exchange when one or more of the prices of a transaction lies outside of the theoretical no bust range of prices.

Further aspects and advantages of the invention are described below in conjunction with the present embodiments.

The present embodiments of the system and method provide Exchanges and users with a flexible approach and structure that minimize the harmful effects of selected trades executed in error. While the present embodiments are not used to rectify all market errors the system and method can intervene by automatically identifying a trade that would appear to be outside of an expected a predicted or a prevailing market range of prices. A price that is not consistent with the history of a contract is not consistent with the history of an underlying commodity is not consistent with the price of a highly correlated investment or is not consistent with or bears no relationship to a fair market value may be identified. In some embodiments a program may analyze trades. Because some market participants are not always aware of trades they execute in error some embodiments identify errors before market participants discover them.

Preferably the hub comprises a management server. Preferably the management server electronically receives converts and transfers data in a form compatible with protocols used by the servers the workstation the communication link the interfaces and the networks and . The interfaces can include an application programming interface an API a data interface a market data interface and or other interfaces for example. Preferably the market data interface provides quote vendors with access to selected output disseminated from the hub .

In this embodiment the hub also provides routing control to a trade matching system such as an automated trading engine shown as servers and . When orders are matched automatically by a matching algorithm or system within one or both of the servers and or preferably the details of the trade and information of interest to the market are returned to a trade evaluation system the quote vendors and the trade participants. Preferably the trade participants include the buyers and the sellers.

Preferably the trade evaluation system shown as a server in interfaces the hub . In one embodiment the trade evaluation system includes a first processor or determination logic that interprets and assesses pricing data a memory that stores and retrieves data and evaluation logic that can comprises a second processor or relies on the computing power of the first processor. Preferably the evaluation logic is suitable for calculating a discrete variable that represents a synthetic or theoretical market price and an interval that extends above and below the synthetic market price. Preferably the interval or theoretical no bust range is fixed within a number of ticks above and below the synthetic market price and can differ with each contract.

When the present system and method is used in a futures Exchange the theoretical no bust range comprises a price interval within which transactions that fall within that interval are not subject to cancellation by the Exchange. Preferably trades that fall within the theoretical no bust range do not have a significant adverse effect on the market and therefore the trade stands in the Exchange even in error. Certainly in some embodiments and Exchanges trades that fall within the theoretical no bust range can be cancelled by agreement between the market participants but that can require all market participants to that trade to reach agreement. In other embodiments and Exchanges the trades that fall within the theoretical no bust range cannot be cancelled by agreement.

Preferably the other interfaces the APIs the market data interfaces the data interfaces the networks and . etc. provide market participants quote vendors and others with real and or delayed time access to trade data. The trade data can include investment prices such as futures contract prices settlement prices bids offers and other Exchange related or derived information. In some embodiments inter process communication methods such as a Dynamic Data Exchange DDE and or an Object Linking and Embedding OLE are used to exchange data and commands between two or more servers or applications that are running simultaneously.

As shown in the alert embodiment includes input devices a trade evaluation system user interfaces and and a control center . Preferably the input devices include devices that provide quotes and and other data to the trade evaluation system . Such data can include separate bid offer and trade prices the daily cash settlement prices pre defined and or monthly moving averages etc. Other Exchange data can include the official high bid and low offer prices for contract through a variable or defined interval real time or delayed option volatilities moving average settlement prices open interest data provisional and final exchange rates position reports etc. Preferably the quote and data devices provide the data that the trade evaluation system needs to generate a synthetic market price. Preferably the synthetic market price reflects a calculated worth or a consensus value of a commodity or another financial instrument at predetermined times in the past or future.

Preferably the trade evaluation system derives a synthetic market price and theoretical no bust ranges through a sequence of steps. These steps can vary by the types of instruments e.g. product service etc. the types of commodities a long list of products that includes financial instruments and currency the markets the pricing of related products the histories of the commodity and or other circumstances or data surrounding or related to a contract or an investment.

In this embodiment the cash market which is the actual or spot market is where the commodities themselves are bought and sold. The cash price is the actual price of the physical commodity a futures price is the price of a contract in a futures market. Although cash and futures prices are not the same in some instances the prices have a tendency to parallel each other. As the expiration date of a futures contract approaches for example preferably the separation between the two prices the basis converge. Because of this strong relationship in prices in some instances the trade evaluation system can execute a correlation analysis to predict a forward or a regressive synthetic market price and a theoretical no bust range in the futures market based on the cash market prices.

Similarly a strong relationship can exist between commodities traded in an automatic matching system and the commodities traded in a physical exchange. At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME for example futures trading of the Standard and Poor s 500 Stock Price Index S P 500 are sold by contract in the trading pits through live open outcry trading. A smaller version of this contract the E mini Standard and Poor s 500 futures E mini S P 500 is sold electronically through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange s CME s GLOBEX trading system. Due to the relatively high correlation between these two markets in some instance the trade evaluation system can also execute a correlation analysis or use inference logic to predict a forward or a regressive futures price and or a theoretical no bust range of the E mini S P 500 based on the S P 500 futures traded in the pits. In this instance historical prices tracked from the trading floor can be used to determine the synthetic market price and a theoretical no bust range for a contact traded in an automated Exchange.

Similarly highly correlated products traded separately or in a common venue can also be used by the trade evaluation system to predict the market price of a commodity at a time in the future or the past. For instance the E mini NASDAQ 100 traded at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME which is about one fifth of the size of the NASDAQ Index National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System Index can also be used to predict a forward and or a regressive futures price and a theoretical no bust range for another index. If a strong relationship exists between the E mini NASDAQ 100 and an illiquid equity stock index for example the trade evaluation system can use inference logic or a prediction algorithm to predict a forward or a regressive synthetic price and a theoretical no bust range for the illiquid equity stock index without relying on a prevailing market price that may not reflect the actual state of the marketplace.

As shown in the trade matching system couples the user interfaces and to the trade evaluation system . Preferably the trade matching system uses one or more matching algorithms such as a first in first out FIFO an allocation algorithm a hybrid price time priority such as a Lead Market Maker LMM etc. for example to automatically match orders. Once the details of the orders are entered through the user interfaces and preferably the trade matching system executes the trade and transmits matched trade data e.g. instrument type the price the quantity the buyer the seller etc. to the trade evaluation system and user interfaces and . The trade matching system also transmits matched trade data and quote data to the quote and data vendors . Preferably the matched trade data and quote data describe the most recent movements of the markets.

Through the Control Center preferably the Exchange or members of the Exchange oversee the cancellation of potential trading errors. Preferably the identification of a potential erroneous trade occurs in a narrow time frame as does the Exchange s or member s decision whether to cancel such a trade. To assure that market participants are aware that an erroneous trade may be cancelled preferably the trade evaluation system provides a prompt notice to the user interfaces and the control center and any independent communication systems. In some instances the embodiment of provides automatic notices only to the control center allowing the Exchange to notify market participants of such a trade through a messaging system.

Because market participants may not be aware that an erroneous trade occurred due to the large volume of messages sent over an electronic trading system or because the market participants are no longer trading the present system and method also can encompass independent communication systems that are coupled to the trade evaluation system to convey warnings alerts that a trade may be cancelled. Such systems can include devices that send and or receive messages via telecommunication or wireless links such as portable phones personal digital assistants PDAs and or electronic mail devices devices that send and or receive images and can print them on a tangible media such as faxes etc. Preferably these systems make market participants aware of a possible erroneous trade in a narrow timeframe.

Once a potential erroneous trade has been identified and been found to have been traded outside of the theoretical no bust range the trade evaluation system alerts the control center . Preferably the control center attempts to resolve the error through the Exchange s policies and procedures. At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME for example if all parties to a trade agree to cancel a trade and no third party notifies the GLOBEX Control Center within a narrow timeframe the trade will be cancelled by the GLOBEX Control Center. If a party to the trade cannot be contacted or does not agree to cancel a trade the GLOBEX Control Center will initiate an investigation examine the underlying circumstances of the trade and make a decision whether to cancel the trade. If the erroneous trade is cancelled the GLOBEX Control Center can then consider canceling contingent and other orders executed as a result of the erroneous trade.

Preferably the system and method automatically identifies a potential erroneous trade through the trade evaluation system . One embodiment of the trade evaluation system is shown in . In this embodiment the trade evaluation system includes determination logic that can comprise a first processor that interprets and assesses pricing data memory resident to or separate from the determination logic that stores data for retrieval and evaluation logic that can comprise a second processor or relies on the computing power of the determination logic . Preferably the evaluation logic is suitable for calculating a synthetic market price and an interval that extends above and below the synthetic market price. Preferably the interval or theoretical no bust range is fixed within a number of ticks above and below the synthetic market price but can differ with each contract.

Preferably the determination logic determines or calculates the synthetic market price based at least in part upon the data provided by the quote and and or the data devices . When the data is received by the trade evaluation system some of it is processed by the determination logic and can be stored in a non volatile or volatile memory . Preferably the determination logic calculates the synthetic market prices and theoretical no bust ranges upon demand in delayed time or in real time as an investment ticks meaning as a price moves. Preferably the synthetic market prices and in some embodiments the theoretical no bust ranges are stored in memory . By storing one or both of these values the present system and method can recreate a theoretical market in a substantially narrow time frame. The storage of one or both of these values can preserve market integrity by minimizing the possibility of canceling a trade well after it has been executed.

Preferably the evaluation logic compares the trade prices received from the trade matching system to the synthesized no bust range. While in some embodiments price comparisons can occur in delayed or batch time preferably the comparison occurs in real time which is within a narrow time period after a trade has occurred. If the price of the trade is within the theoretical no bust range the trade will stand and no further action will be taken. If the price of the trade falls outside of the theoretical no bust range preferably the evaluation logic enables the alert logic . In this embodiment the alert logic can comprise a third processor or can rely on the computing power of the evaluation logic and or the determination logic .

Once a potential erroneous trade has been found to lie outside of the theoretical no bust range preferably the alert logic enables an alarm in the control center . In alternative embodiments the alarm also can be used to notify market participants. In one embodiment different alarms are used to indicate different events. In a first mode the type or the frequency or the loudness of a sound or the brightness or the frequency e.g. a strobe or the color of a visual alarm or the frequency or the intensity of a tactile pressure e.g. a vibration or other indicia collectively and individually referred to as a warning hereinafter may identify the data source or the type of data used to predict the synthetic market price and or the theoretical no bust range. For instance a warning may identify a potential erroneous trade that lies outside the theoretical no bust range when the no bust range is based on electronic Exchange data. A second warning may indicate that the theoretical no bust range was based on electronic exchange and live open outcry trading data. A third warning may indicate that the theoretical no bust range was based on the actual cash or spot market.

In a second mode the warning may identify the product that was traded. In a futures market for example different products may generate different warnings. If the present embodiment were used at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME for example a first warning may identify potential erroneous trades of the E mini S P 500 a second or different warning may identify a potential erroneous trade of the E mini NASDAQ 100 and a third or different warning may identify a potential erroneous trade of another product etc.

In a third mode the warning may indicate the degree of separation between the price of a potential erroneous trade and the theoretical no bust range or the synthesized market price. In an audible embodiment for example the intensity or frequency of the sound may indicate the degree of separation between the price of the potential erroneous trade and the theoretical no bust range. Many other alternative embodiments are also possible. For instance the intensity or frequency of a warning may indicate the level of experience of a market participant e.g. a new market participant may have a louder or a brighter or a more powerful warning the intensity or frequency of the warning may indicate the frequency that a market participant submits orders in error executes erroneous trades cancels trades or distinguishes a market participant in any other way. In alternative embodiments any combination or variation of warnings alerts from the first second and third modes are used.

As shown in the present alert method begins detecting potential erroneous trades at acts . At acts the present alert method receives quotes and data manually or automatically. At acts and the alert method receives real time and or delayed time market information from an Exchange or an on line data service or a data provider or etc. Preferably a communication method or technology is used that allows multiple programs that are running separately to simultaneously exchange data and commands.

At act a correlation analysis inference logic and or a prediction algorithm are used to predict a forward and or regressive synthetic market price based at least in part on data received from one or more of the Exchange an on line data service a manual data service or another data provider. As shown by the multiple process boxes one or more processes can be used to derive a forward and or regressive synthetic market price. When more than one process is used multiple synthetic market prices can be used to determine one or more theoretical no bust ranges.

At act the theoretical no bust ranges are derived. Preferably one or more theoretical no bust range are used to determine if a warning should issue. While the theoretical no bust range is a fixed number of ticks above or below the synthetic market prices in the present embodiment in alternative embodiments the range comprises a fluid range that can vary within or by the market. In one embodiment the upper and lower limits of the theoretical no bust range are symmetrical about the synthetic market price in another embodiment the separation between the upper and lower limits of the theoretical no bust range to the synthetic market price are not equal.

At act a memory stores one or more synthetic market prices variance s used to predict the theoretical no bust range s and the no bust range s . Because requests to cancel a trade can also be made to the Exchange well after the trade is executed by storing one or more of these values the present method can re create the theoretical no bust range and preferably allow the Exchange to reach a decision whether to cancel a trade in a narrow time frame.

At act the memory stores the details of the potentially erroneous trade that are received automatically from the trade matching system or through a request to cancel a trade made by a market participant at act . Preferably the details of the potentially erroneous trade facilitate the decision making process. In this embodiment those details are in a protocol or can be converted to a protocol that allows the trade evaluation system to determine if the potential erroneous trade lies outside the theoretical no bust range at act .

If the trade evaluation system determines that the price of the potentially erroneous trade lies outside the theoretical no bust range the trade evaluation system issues a warning to the control center at act and in some embodiments to the markets to assure that market participants are aware that a potentially erroneous trade may be cancelled. Because not all market participants may have access to messages sent over the Exchange alternative methods encompass communication systems that can forward alerts to market participants.

If an investigation is needed at act the Exchange or an automated system initiates an investigation to determine if the trade should be cancelled. An investigation may be needed if for example a party to a trade cannot be contacted or does not agree to the cancellation of an order or a third party objects to the cancellation of a trade. In those instances the Exchange or the automated system such as an expert system will analyze the underlying circumstances of the trade and decide whether to cancel it.

If the price of a transaction lies within the theoretical no bust range at act or when a decision whether to cancel a trade is reached the present method ends at act . If the trade is to be cancelled in one futures embodiment the trade is taken out of the price stream market participants are notified and preferably the trade is also cancelled in the Exchange s clearinghouse.

In those alternative methods using multiple media types to make the control center and or the market participants aware that a trade may be cancelled some alternative embodiments sort the warnings once the trade evaluation system determines that the potential erroneous trade lies outside of the theoretical no bust range as shown in .

Once the warnings are sorted at act preferably the warnings are linked to a media at act . Preferably at act the warnings issue. Independent communication systems may forward the warnings to the market participants using any communication method or system including a computer a speaker a telephone or another device. Upon the issuance of the notice preferably an investigation is commenced at act .

As shown in a present trade limit opening method can be used to generate an application used to monitor trades and organize data using various spreadsheet cells and database fields. Preferably formulas can establish relationships between selected cells and in databases fields.

At act the present trade opening method opens a file containing a number of related worksheets a k a a workbook . Upon its opening the present trade opening method calls and runs the routines shown in acts .

At act the cleaning method commences. Preferably the present trade opening method closes any extra viewing windows removes any data boarders and resets window sizes. Preferably the method then clears the columns and rows that comprise the worksheet s and saves the worksheet s in a memory.

At act an array building method identifies the initial month of a contract and builds an array based on that initial month. In a futures Exchange commodity contracts open and close at different time throughout the year. Based on date comparisons act synthesizes the contract dates through interprocess communication formulas such as Dynamic Data Exchange DDE formulas programmed within the cells of the worksheet.

At act a database management system opens an existing file or creates a new file. Preferably the database management system stores information in tables and can conduct searches on data stored in rows and columns. Preferably a record of transactions or activities such as a Log Table is maintained in the existing or new file.

The present trade opening method continues by defining the end of day and a re cycle time method at optional act . If an Exchange elects to define these parameters the Exchange enters a time that closes out the monitoring method and a time to re install the method. When operational the re cycle time establishes times or launches a timer that re starts the opening procedure at a measured time interval. In some embodiments a re cycle time can be used to overcome a bug or a deficiency in software that causes the software to stall in a wait state runs for extended periods of times or fail for another reason. In other embodiments the re cycle time can build an archive in programmed increments.

At act the present trade opening method performs an update. When an input disseminates a new price or a change in price for a specific commodity for example the array build act analyzes the new price change to determine if the price lies outside of a theoretical no bust range. If the trade limits of the theoretical no bust range are exceeded a warning issues and details of the trade such as a time price and trader identities are recorded in the appropriate cell s within a worksheet log and or in one or more selected fields of a database log.

When the details of the trade are recorded in the worksheet and or the database log preferably the present trade opening method formats the data sets the window size and opens the appropriate window. In the present embodiment the details of the trade are recorded in files entitled Exceed Limit Log and Error Log. 

At optional act a cursor is placed in one of the cells or fields that exceeded the theoretical no bust range. Thus when used in a Futures Exchange the present opening method identified the commodities being traded the contract dates price changes and made comparisons to a theoretical no bust range and when prices lied outside the theoretical no bust range issued warnings. Potentially erroneous trades were flagged in a tangible and or a digital media.

In the present trade opening method the operational method continues until the method ends by closing a file. Preferably the price updates occur when there is movement in the market meaning when there is a change in an on line price. In this embodiment details of the array build act are further described by the acts of .

When a price update is received from a quote or data vendor at act preferably the update method examines the new price to determine if that price exceeds the theoretical no bust range. Preferably the price updates selected price and time data in the worksheet cells and or the database fields at act . If the theoretical no bust range is exceeded preferably an Exchange control center is notified by a warning. In an audio embodiment for example the array building act issues a warning by selecting an audio file such as a WAV file. A WAV file is a file format used in a windows operating environment that stores sound. Preferably the update method updates the Exceed Trade Limit Logs with details of the possible erroneous trade in worksheet cells and or database fields at act . Preferably the update method is coordinated to a time. Preferably the time is a precise timekeeping signal such as a clock signal that the present method receives from an atomic clock.

As further shown in a system time input or time check at act can be used to re calculate a synthetic market price and a theoretical no bust range at pre determined intervals. In the illustrated method the synthetic market price and a theoretical no bust range is calculated in a five or ten minute interval. Preferably the time is recorded in a database log that can be used in self diagnostic routines. For example if the exemplary time check act does not poll an external timing source at an expected interval the time check act can record the error in worksheet cells and or database fields. Once recorded the time check act can re start the trade limit opening method by calling a re start method shown in .

Preferably the recycle time operational act shown in can also restart the trade limit opening method by calling the re start method act of . When operational the re cycle time act establishes a time or launches a timer that re starts the opening method. In the illustrated embodiment a re start is programmed to occur at the exemplary Exchange defined time of one second past midnight. Preferably the trade limit opening method records the restart time in a worksheet cell and or database field.

The present trade opening method preferably ends automatically or upon demand. An unexpected occurrence or situation for example may require an operator to call an end of the trading day through a manual or software actuated means e.g. a push button switch etc. . If the end of the trading day is called by an operator occurs because of the natural close of the trading day or occurs for any other reason the end of day act shown in saves the log sheet in a memory.

In the illustrated embodiment the Exceed Limit Log and the Error Log are saved in a memory. Preferably the Exceed Limit Log includes the details of the potentially erroneous trades identified by the trade opening method while the Error Log records the performance of the trade opening method. If there is a deficiency in the functionality of the acts or the program that can be in response to an unforeseen operating condition for example a record of those activities are preferably recorded within the Error Log. Preferably the end of day process shown in launches the methods shown in acts and of and acts of . Once the files are saved acts and of the trade closing method are executed before launching the trade opening method acts shown in .

When the trade opening method is to be closed at act preferably the trade closing method launches the routines shown in acts . At act the present trade closing method begins. Preferably the trade closing method reset the timers or programs used to define the end of the trading day and the re cycle time method shown in .

At act the system time input or time check act shown in is terminated. Preferably the stopping of the time change timer stops the polling of an external time source that occurs at predetermined or programmed intervals.

At act the cleaning method commences. Preferably the trade closing method closes any extra viewing windows removes any data boarders and resets window sizes. Preferably the method then clears the columns and rows that comprise the worksheet s and saves the worksheet s in a memory.

At act the trading method continues by saving and then closing the open database files and recording the process start time. Preferably the closing process act clears the pointers and references within the database fields. In the present embodiment this reset or initialization is illustrated in by setting the database references to nothing a null character.

At act the workbooks are closed and the process ends until it is restarted automatically or by a user s initiative.

As shown in the restart act records the process start time and processes a database file entitled Log Table. Once processed the re start act executes the stop on time act and stop time change time act shown in and then executes the clean process act the build worksheet data act the new database file act the optional run on time act the run time change timer act the array build act the format sheet act and the optional act of final selected cells act shown in . In the present embodiment the specific function tasks or routines of these acts are described above.

When the present trade opening method programs constant values or names a file the method launches a constant value method and a name sub routine method respectively. At act the constant value method is programmed with static variable that can be used in the illustrated methods of . Similarly act can use a current system date and time to derive and create workbook or spreadsheet names and database file names. In the present embodiment the act may be called the end of day act shown in or the new database file act shown in .

When an error occurs the present trade opening method launches an error method shown in . Preferably the error act is a program procedure or function that checks for errors such as type mismatches overflows and underflows loss of connectivity etc. In the present embodiment error detection instructions can be customized and executed by the trade limit opening method shown in the operational methods shown in and the closing methods shown in . In alternative embodiments the error act can comprise intelligent software that uses rule based adaptations to configure itself to operate optimally to detect problems and generate reports or displays about them.

Each of these methods the opening operational and closing methods are also shown in the flow diagram of an alternative alert embodiment entitled a trade limit method shown in . In the present trade limit method illustrates the opening method on the left hand side the operational method shown near the center and the closing method on the right hand side. Preferably the dashed lines indicate the act that are synchronized or rely on a system clock.

The present trade limit method begins with the trade limit opening method previously shown in . At act the method opens a file containing a number of related worksheets a k a a workbook . Upon its opening the present trade opening method calls and runs the routines shown in acts .

At act the cleaning method commences. Preferably the present trade opening method closes any extra viewing windows removes any data boarders and resets window sizes. Preferably the method then clears the columns and rows that comprise the worksheet s and saves the worksheet s in a memory.

At act an array building method identifies the initial month of a contract and builds an array based on that initial month. In a futures Exchange commodity contracts open and close at different time throughout the year. Based on date comparisons act synthesizes the contract dates through interprocess communication formulas such as Dynamic Data Exchange DDE formulas programmed within the cells of the worksheet.

At act a database management system opens an existing file or creates a new file. Preferably the database management system stores information in tables and can conduct searches on data stored in rows and columns. Preferably a record of transactions or activities such as a Log Table is maintained in the existing or new file.

The present trade opening method continues by defining the end of day and a re cycle time method at optional act . If an Exchange elects to define these parameters the Exchange enters a time that closes out the monitoring method and a time to re install the method. When operational the re cycle time establishes times or acts as a timer that re starts the opening procedure. In some embodiments a re cycle time can be used to overcome a bug or a deficiency in software that is susceptible to corruption when the software stalls in a wait state runs for extended periods of times or fails for another reason. In other embodiments the re cycle time can build an archive in programmed increments.

At act the present trade opening method performs an update. When an input disseminates a new price or a change in price for a specific commodity for example the array build act analyzes the new price change to determine if the price lies outside of a theoretical no bust range. If the trade limits of the theoretical no bust range are exceeded a warning issues and details of the trade such as a time price and trader identities are recorded in the appropriate cell s within a worksheet log and or in one or more selected fields of a database log.

When the details of the trade are recorded in the worksheet and or the database log preferably the present trade opening method formats the data sets the window size and opens the appropriate Window. In the present embodiment the details of the trade are recorded in files entitled Exceed Limit Log and Error Log. 

At optional act a cursor is placed in one of the cells or fields that exceeded the theoretical no bust range. Thus when used in a Futures Exchange the present opening method identified the commodities being traded the contract dates price changes and made comparisons to a theoretical no bust range and when prices lied outside the theoretical no bust range issued warnings. Potentially erroneous trades were flagged in a tangible and or a digital media.

When a price update is received from a quote or data vendor at act preferably the update method examines the new price to determine if that price exceeds the theoretical no bust range. Preferably the price updates selected price and time data in the worksheet cells and or the database fields at act . If the theoretical no bust range is exceeded preferably an Exchange control center is notified by a warning. In an audio embodiment for example the array building act issues a warning by selecting an audio file such as a WAV file. Preferably the update method updates the exceed trade limit logs with details of the possible erroneous trade in worksheet cells and or database fields at act . Preferably the update method is coordinated to a time. Preferably the time is a precise timekeeping signal such as a clock signal that the present method receives from an atomic clock.

As previously shown in a system time input or time check at act can be used to re calculate a synthetic market price and a theoretical no bust range at pre determined intervals. In the illustrated method the synthetic market price and a theoretical no bust range is calculated in programmed time intervals. Preferably the time is recorded in a database log that can be used in self diagnostic routines. For example if the exemplary time check act does not poll an external timing source at an expected interval the time check act can record the error in worksheet cells and or database fields. Once recorded the time check act can re start the trade limit opening method by calling a re start method act shown in .

When operational the re cycle time act establishes a time or launches a timer that re starts the opening method. In the illustrated embodiment a re start is programmed to occur at the exemplary Exchange defined time of one second past midnight. Preferably the trade limit opening method records the restart time in a worksheet cell and or database field.

The present trade opening method preferably ends automatically or upon demand. An unexpected occurrence or situation for example may require an operator to call an end of the trading day through a manual or software actuated means e.g. a push button switch etc. . If the end of the trading day is called by an operator the natural close of the trading day or for any other reason the end of day act saves the log sheet in a memory.

In the illustrated embodiment the Exceed Limit Log and the Error Log are saved to a memory. Preferably the Exceed Limit Log includes the details of the potentially erroneous trades identified by the trade opening method while the Error Log records the performance of the trade opening method. If there is a deficiency in the functionality of the acts or the program that can be in response to an unforeseen operating condition for example a record of those activities are preferably recorded within the Error Log. Once the files are saved the trade closing method shown in is executed before launching the trade opening method shown in .

When the trade opening method is to be closed at act preferably the trade closing method launches the routines shown in acts of .

At act the present trade closing method begins. Preferably the trade closing method reset the timers or programs used to define the end of the trading day and the re cycle time method shown in .

At act the system time input or time check act shown in is terminated. Preferably the stopping of the time change timer stops the polling of an external time source that occurs at predetermined or programmed intervals.

At act the cleaning method commences. Preferably the trade closing method closes any extra viewing windows removes any data boarders and resets window sizes. Preferably the method then clears the columns and rows that comprise the worksheet s and saves the worksheet s in a memory.

At act the trading method continues by saving and then closing the open database files and recording the process start time. Preferably the closing process act clears the pointers and references within the database fields. In the present embodiment this reset or initialization is illustrated in by setting the database references to nothing a null character.

At act the workbooks are closed and the process ends until it is restarted automatically or by a user s initiative. further illustrates the trade opening method restart the constant value and the file name methods. Preferably the trade opening method re start can be called by the time check act of the re cycle time act or by an operator through a manual or software actuated means e.g. a push button switch etc. .

The present embodiments of the system and method described above provide Exchanges and users with a flexible approach and structure that minimize the harmful effects of selected trades executed in error. Preferably the system and method can intervene by automatically identifying a trade that would appear to be outside of an expected a predicted or a prevailing market range of prices. A price that is not consistent with the history of a contract is not consistent with the history of an underlying commodity is not consistent with the price of a highly correlated investment or is not consistent with or bears no relationship to a fair market value can be identified. In some embodiments a program may analyze trades and make Exchange control centers aware and in some embodiments market participants aware of trades execute in error before market participants discover them.

The above described embodiments scale well to large networks new products or the large volatility that occurs in the markets that trade popular contracts. These embodiments do not require repeated modifications. Preferably the above described embodiments provide a safe harbor to the parties of an erroneous trade in which the error is based on the price at which the trade is made. The above describe embodiments describe the resolution of an erroneous trade the lies outside of the theoretical no bust range of prices. While the resolution can result in a decision to cancel that trade in some alternative embodiments Exchanges may also sustain the trade but modify its terms.

Although the embodiments described above have primarily been explained through a futures market the invention also facilitates any exchange between buyers and sellers including markets that exchange equities debt investment indices and other investments as well as any commodity or combination or series of commodity contracts such as bundles that can comprise the purchase of one of a series of consecutive contracts. Moreover while it is understood that the embodiments of the invention are directed to correcting errors in the price in which a contract or investment is traded in some alternative embodiments the theoretical no bust range may identify trades in which the error is based on the number of contracts traded.

While some embodiments of the invention have been described it should be apparent that many more embodiments and implementations are possible and are within the scope of this invention. It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the spirit and scope of this invention.

