---

title: Discovering and interacting with service providers
abstract: Embodiments provide searching features and functionality that can be used to provide service provider data, but are not so limited. In an embodiment, a computing system can include a client application or client that includes functionality to provide a number of service providers associated with a particular function, service, and/or other provider feature(s). In one embodiment, a computing device can include a client that can be used in conjunction with other end-user applications to automatically provide a number of service providers based in part on a user request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706842&OS=08706842&RS=08706842
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08706842
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081124
---
Computing systems and applications continue to play important roles in our daily activities. Business and casual users have a variety of options at their disposal when selecting a cellphone or smart phone portable digital assistant PDA laptop desktop server etc. and related applications. Processing and memory advances enable application developers to develop more and more complex and user friendly end user applications. Furthermore wireless and or wired communication architectures enhance information sharing and locating capabilities. For example users can now surf for information on the Internet using a web browser installed on a smart phone. Dedicated web sites search engines and other resources can be used in attempting to provide information to a requesting user in an efficient and timely manner.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments provide searching features and functionality that can be used to provide service provider data but are not so limited. In an embodiment a computing system can include a client application or client that includes functionality to provide a number of service providers associated with a particular function service and or other provider feature s . In one embodiment a computing device can include a client that can be used in conjunction with other end user applications to automatically provide a number of service providers based in part on a user request.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments provide searching features and functionality that can be used to provide service provider data but are not so limited. In an embodiment a computing environment includes one or more user devices wherein each device can include a client application or client that includes functionality to locate and present service provider data based in part on a client request. For example each device client can operate to provide a number of service providers associated with a particular function service and or other provider feature s . In one embodiment a computing device can be configured with a service provider client that can be used in conjunction with other end user applications to present a number of service providers based in part on a user request and or location. For example features of the service provider client can be configured as part of a computer readable medium having executable instructions which can be used to locate and present service provider data.

The computing device includes at least one processor and memory that can be used to execute user and other applications of the computing device including a client . For example the computing device can be configured as a desktop laptop handheld tablet or other computing device. According to an embodiment the client can be configured and used to provide a number of service providers in the context of a particular end user application. For example the client can be integrated with an end user application or a suite of user applications e.g. Office applications for example and tailored to expose a number of service providers associated with a type of service good. In one embodiment the client can request and or present service provider data based in part on a type of provider request a requesting location and or a context of an associated end user application.

For example the client can be used in conjunction with a word processing application to locate a resume service provider within a definable region that is associated with the user s current location such that relevant service providers from Canada Mexico and the United States are presented but not for Russia China Australia etc. As another example the client can also be used in conjunction with a spreadsheet application to locate accounting services for providing a particular type of accounting service. As yet another example the client can be used by a browsing application to locate Internet hosting service providers associated with an advertising model.

End user applications may be local web based and or other types of applications. In other embodiments relevant service providers may be returned according to a language political boundaries age combinations of such factors etc. As another example a publishing application may use the client with input features to expose electronic mail campaign service providers marketing providers etc. in the context of the publishing application. As yet another example a human resources application may use the client with input features to locate relevant job posting providers. Accordingly each application can use a client having a particular user interface and or associated search functionality that can be configured according to a desired implementation.

With continuing reference to and according to one embodiment the client can operate to communicate with at least one serving device or server to locate a number of relevant service providers based in part on a location of an end user using the client to issue a search request for relevant service providers. For example the client can be configured to send a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request associated with a service provider request to one or more remote servers having databases e.g. Sharepoint etc. that include service provider data for a particular region associated with a user s current location.

In an embodiment a user interface can be associated with the client and also included as part of an end user application see examples of . In one embodiment the user interface can be tailored to a particular search type according to an application context a service type and or other factors. For example an exemplary search interface that may be associated with client can be configured with input features to locate web hosting providers when a user would like to make a post but does not have a web hosting provider. Accordingly the user interface can be used by a user to search for service providers wherein the client can issue a service provider request to the server based in part on the service provider search.

After receiving a request components of the server can operate to return relevant service provider data based in part on the request. Moreover in various embodiments the server can be configured to provide web hosting functionality document storage functionality navigation functionality search functionality application integration functionality interactive functionality personalization functionality and other functionality. Additionally the server can include various functionality and other components such as a front end functionality web servicing functionality metadata managing functionality markup language functionality etc.

The client and server can be configured to communicate using a number of application programming interfaces APIs . For example a communication protocol can use a markup language and associated data to communicate information between the client server and or other components. In an embodiment an application programming interface API can be used in conjunction with the server to package service provider data for a requesting client such as client for example. For example the API can be configured to package extensible markup language XML data associated with one or more relevant service providers located in a repository of the server and return the packaged XML data to the client for further use.

While the repository and API are shown to be included with the server each component of the environment can be configured as a stand alone component or integrated with another component or components in alternative embodiments. Additionally the service provider data in repository can include information associated with capabilities and or other aspects of particular service providers. For example the service provider data can be organized as one or more data structures e.g. a Sharepoint list etc. that include organized service provider data in the repository . The service provider data can be manually input and or pulled from service provider records web sites and or other sources.

In one exemplary configuration the repository can be populated with service provider data associated with a type of service location of a service organized by a geographic region e.g. country state city province etc. preexisting relationships with and or between service providers and or other service provider factors. Other exemplary service provider data may include that the service provider provides a specific type of service at some hourly cost charges a flat fee for certain services can accept a direct posting of a web page can accept uploaded files which may be limited by type and size etc.

In one embodiment the client can use service provider data returned from the API to populate a gallery of service providers in a user interface see the example of . The client may present the returned service provider data based in part on a type of affiliation or other association. For example service providers can be organized and delineated according to a number of defined groups e.g. platinum gold etc. based in part on advertising agreements associated with a number of business partners that include relevant service providers in a particular area or region.

A relevant service provider can be selected by the user which may direct the user to the service provider s web site or a web site that provides additional information with respect to the selected service provider. If no relevant service providers are located the API can be configured to return an error message or a message to inform the user of such a result. Correspondingly the user does not have to leave the current application to perform a separate search to locate relevant service providers.

With additional reference to an exemplary user interface associated with a publishing application is shown including a search interface that is associated with the service provider client . As described above the service provider client can be configured to locate and present one or more service providers to an end user. In this example the user would like to create a publication and disseminate the publication using e mails.

Correspondingly for this example the service provider client can be configured to search for relevant electronic mail campaign providers. Additionally as shown in the exemplary user interface of a user can interact with search interface to locate relevant electronic mail campaign providers. Upon executing a search the service provider client communicates a request to a server that includes data associated with the request that can be used to locate relevant service providers. As shown in the search interface can inform the user of a pending search while the search is executing. As shown in the search interface can inform the user when no service providers are located.

In an embodiment and referring again to the example of a client request can be directed to a redirector that can use information associated with the client request to direct the request to an appropriate server or other component. For example the redirector can use location data in the request to direct the request to a marketplace provider database . In one embodiment the request can include location data associated with the location of a computing device being used to issue a service provider request or search for a predefined service good.

As one example a location identifier LCID for example associated with one or more resident applications can be packaged with a request and used to identify the location of the user to locate relevant service providers. As another example global positioning satellite GPS and other location technology can be used to determine the location of the user wherein the determined location can be included in a request to locate relevant service providers according to a geographical area or other defined region. Accordingly location and or other information can be used to fetch appropriate service provider data for an associated request. Moreover relevant service provider data returned to a requesting client may be different according to a particular location.

In one embodiment an API or other code can use a schema to populate relevant service provider data associated with registered service providers from the marketplace database . One exemplary schema can include the following but is not so limited.

In an embodiment returned service provider data can also include a current URL for browsing to additional providers on an external website which can include a service name string. Other exemplary schema can include fewer more and different elements.

Correspondingly the API can be used to communicate the relevant service provider data to a requesting client.

In accordance with an embodiment the service provider client can operate to group returned service provider data according to a desired grouping and or delineation. For example the service provider client can group returned service provider data according to a number of tiers or levels. Fonts sizing and or colors can also be used to differentiate different service providers and or relationships. In one embodiment the tiers or levels correspond to a service provider or other relationship. According to the example shown in the API has returned three 3 relevant service providers that the service provider client has grouped by presenting data for two 2 of the relevant service providers as Platinum Partners and one 1 of the relevant service providers as a Gold Partner. As shown advertising text can be included to differentiate service providers and or services goods.

As described above once received the service provider client can parse the returned service provider data to populate a gallery see example of with relevant service providers. For example the service provider client can use returned service provider data and a schema to organize and present the returned service provider data according to a desired view. Accordingly in accordance with an embodiment the client can be configured to use a schema and other features to manage layout population and or presentation of a service provider gallery with service provider data. In various embodiments the functionality of the client can be tailored according to a particular implementation.

For example the service provider client can use one or more of the exemplary schema elements to populate a gallery as follows 

1. The lowest numbered Tier Heading provided appears at the top of the gallery in a distinctive font and or color.

Additionally the gallery can be refreshed on first dropdown during a given search session. As shown in in addition to the populated service provider data the dropdown can be configured to include a number of user options. Exemplary user options may include a clear recently used providers option a refresh list option a see more providers option which may navigate to a provided URL an add unlisted service option which can operate to launch an add service dialog etc. For example the clear recently used providers option can be used to clear most recently used service provider data.

In one embodiment a predetermined number of most recently used service providers can be displayed at the top of an associated gallery before all tier headings. A list of most recently used service providers can be populated by selecting a provider from the list and leaving the gallery. For example a new user selection can demote the first position to second and the third out of the most recently used service provider list. If no provider is selected when a gallery is first dropped and populated the highest ranking highest tier highest appearance order item can be made to appear in the gallery window and or recently used service provider list. When the gallery is closed the top service provider data or some portion can remain displayed in the search window. If a new search is performed and if a recently used service provider data is not returned that provider may not be removed from the recently used service providers list unless cleared by the user.

As another example if the add unlisted service option is selected the client can operate to launch a dialog with edit boxes labeled with strings. For example the strings may include Enter Provider location inside a first edit box Example http www.myprovider.com and Enter Provider name inside a second edit box Example My Provider along with ok and cancel buttons. User added services can appear with or without icons populated in a gallery after all other entries and or listed in the recently used service providers list after being selected by a user.

In various embodiments advertising and monetization models can be used to produce revenue from such an interactive interface. For example the client may communicate a charge receipt so that a charge may be accounted for according to an advertising relationship when a user selects one or more of the returned service providers according to a partner level or other factor. As another example a service provider partner may receive a credit or other value if associated service provider data is retrieved from a repository and or populated in the gallery .

As shown in the search interface can inform the user regarding available service features of a selected service provider returned by the API . Additionally the user can be directed to an associated web site upon selecting a returned service provider. For example a new browser window may open for a selected service provider web site. In one embodiment a welcome screen at an associated web site can be used to acknowledge the use of an application e.g. the publishing application when the service provider client was used to provide the relevant service provider data. For example the redirector can use data in the service provider request or a communication protocol e.g. IP address that includes application data associated with the application in use when the service provider client requested service provider data. In an embodiment the redirector can be included as part of the server functionality or a separate component.

The computing environments described herein can be configured to include networking security and or other communication functionality to provide an interactive environment for associated users. Accordingly the environments and components include functionality to communicate with other computing devices communication devices and or other systems and are not intended to be limited to the embodiments and examples described herein. Moreover components can be configured to communicate via a wired wireless and or combination of various communication networks.

The computing environments and systems described herein can be configured as a networked system that includes software firmware hardware and other components to provide a distributed computing environment such as a .NET framework for example. For example components can be configured using Microsoft Windows SharePoint services and Office technology to provide a computing environment to share and use information. Additionally while a certain number and configuration of components are shown the other numbers of components and various configurations can be used. For example a computing environment can include a plurality of computing devices clients servers repositories and or other components.

At the client can register with the server . For example a user profile can be used to register the client with one or more servers or other components. In one embodiment as part of a registration process and in order for the client to gain visibility with an associated server a location identifier can be used to identifier relevant service provider data repositories. For example service provider data can be provided to the client after registering with the server and logging in. Once registered and logged in the client can be configured to present service provider data to a user.

At the client can operate to communicate a service provider request to the server . For example the client can send a request to the server for XML service provider data including any relevant metadata. In an alternative embodiment a redirector can be used to direct the request to a particular server or other component. At the server can operate to return any relevant service provider data. For example an API can be used to package XML service provider data according to a number of defined schema elements.

With continuing reference to at the client can operate to parse any received service provider data according to a grouping or other delineation implementation. For example the client can operate to parse returned service provider according to a provider name advertising text and or level of association. At the client can operate to present the parsed service provider data in a gallery or other interactive interface. For example the client can operate to provide a drop down list of relevant service provider including differentiating the service providers according to an advertising model or agreement. A user can select a service provider for more information and further interaction.

Referring now to the following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. While the invention will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with program modules that run on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may also be implemented in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative operating environment for embodiments of the invention will be described. As shown in computer comprises a general purpose desktop laptop handheld tablet or other type of computer capable of executing one or more application programs. The computer includes at least one central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM .

The computer further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules. The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed or utilized by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments of the invention the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as a local network the Internet etc. for example. The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computing systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of input types including a keyboard mouse pen stylus finger and or other means. Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display a printer or other type of output device. Additionally a touch screen can serve as an input and an output mechanism.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked personal computer such as the WINDOWS operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store application programs such as a word processing application a spreadsheet application e mail application publishing application etc. As shown in a service provider client is included in the mass storage device .

It should be appreciated that various embodiments of the present invention can be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system implementing the invention. Accordingly logical operations including related algorithms can be referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software firmware special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present invention as recited within the claims set forth herein.

Although the invention has been described in connection with various exemplary embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that many modifications can be made thereto within the scope of the claims that follow. Accordingly it is not intended that the scope of the invention in any way be limited by the above description but instead be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

