---

title: Adaptive photonic coupler
abstract: A method to maximize the coupling efficiency between a collimated, free-space optical signal and a fiber optic waveguide using an active optical element to steer and focus the collimated beam driven by an adaptive controller that periodically auto-calibrates the active optical element's parameters to maximize the measured power received by the waveguide using a gradient ascent optimization algorithm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08041161&OS=08041161&RS=08041161
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08041161
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080709
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The invention relates generally to coupling between a collimated free space optical signal and a single mode optical fiber and in particular to optimizing the alignment and focus of an optical signal into a fiber core based on the measure of transmitted power in the fiber.

Although there have been many examples of active optical elements used in prior art for beam steering adaptive lenses and wavefront correction the present invention is unique in its implementation control approach simplicity ability to correct dominant low order forms of wavefront error and robustness. Some of the relevant prior art is discussed here to establish the novelty and utility of the current invention.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 572 616 by Kowel issued in 1986 teaches an adaptive liquid crystal lens that can be electronically corrected for both internal and external aberrations. Kowel teaches that the refractive index of the liquid crystal device can be controlled to bring entering light to a focus upon exiting the device. It is claimed that the device can be made to exhibit characteristics of both a positive lens and a negative lens. Details of the control approach are not presented except that a control means is used to drive the active optical element with control signals being developed by a processor in response to a given program and using well known microprocessor control techniques . To correct for aberrations a feedback loop was incorporated to command the liquid crystal lens based on measurements from a photoelectric sensor positioned after the device at its image plane. In contrast the present invention uses a more efficient measurement of optical power within the fiber to which it is coupled an adaptive controller is used to maximize power transfer and a model based feedback loop is not required which avoids controller stability issues.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 071 253 by Chase issued in 1991 teaches a light beam position control system that utilizes Kerr cells and Lummer Gehrcke plates to produce sets of optical phased linear arrays for beam positioning and beam monitoring. This device is for beam steering only but illustrates a common shortcoming of prior art that being an efficient feedback signal for controlling the active device. In a Kerr cell the index of refraction of a material can be changed by applying an electric field. Chase teaches a light beam control system wherein the angular position of the controlled beam is monitored by measurement of the angular position of a second beam. The output of the active cells and plates is split into a primary and secondary beam the secondary beam being interrogated and used to adjust the voltage applied to the active elements to result in precise control of the primary beam. Chase teaches that the controller includes an image analysis means including a television camera and means for generating first and second control signals or an optical interface maximum fringe counter and digital counting means for determining monitor secondary beam position. Obviously analysis of the monitor secondary beam is complex and no account is given of how angular position of the primary beam can be inferred or is related to analysis of the secondary beam. In contrast the present invention uses a simpler and more robust approach for adaptively optimizing coupling with the fiber. Optical phased arrays require lower voltage levels than Kerr cells and Lummer Gehrcke plates and can be used for focusing a beam.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 233 673 by Vali issued in 1993 relates to an optical phased array used to steer and focus an optical beam. However instead of using a linear or planar optical phased array device to focus light energy into a fiber optic Vali teaches the use of an array of fiber optic cables wherein the relative phases along the optical paths are adjusted so that the light emitted from the fiber optics is effectively focused. In contrast the present invention uses an optical phased array device to focus light into a fiber optic cable.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 128 421 by Roberts relates to beam steering using electro optic phase modulators optical phase array emitters and electronic control circuits. Roberts states that a key problem with prior art approaches to electric beam steering is that control systems have been prohibitively complex. In contrast the present invention uses a measurement of the optical power transmitted into the fiber to adaptively optimize the focal length and steered angle of the optical phased array. This allows tremendous flexibility and the controller is able to compensate for dominant sources of wavefront error expected to be encountered during its service life.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 597 836 by Johnson teaches a control system for optical phased arrays that compensates for phase changes due to external perturbations such as vibration and thermal variations as well as compensating for atmospheric aberrations external to the laser system. Johnson teaches an approach for compensating for wavefront errors as opposed to beam steering and focusing. Johnson uses analysis of the wavefront exiting the active device that device being an optical phased array or phase modulator to generate a control signal that is fed back to the active device. Johnson teaches that algorithms which are used in the known art to calculate phase measurements and corrections are computationally intensive and therefore may not be capable of providing real time feedback to the phase modulators. Johnson teaches the use of a personal computer or a plurality of personal computers to conduct analysis of the exiting beam to generate the necessary control signal. In contrast the present invention does not require a measurement of the transmitted wavefront and subsequent analysis which is prohibitively complex and computationally intensive. It will be shown that by maximizing the optical power transmitted into the fiber optic one is inherently compensating for the dominant modes of wavefront error those being spherical aberration tip and tilt errors. Further we avoid control stability issues by not using a feedback controller. Instead an adaptive controller is used to make adjustments to the optical phased array in a feed forward control architecture. This precludes the need to have an accurate system model for controller synthesis and allows for time varying system dynamics.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 079 203 by Huang teaches an electronically tunable micro lens device that uses an inhomogeneous concentrated polymer network with nemantic liquid crystal. Huang asserts that micro lenses are one of the most important components in the micro optics field for optical fiber coupling. Huang teaches a gradient index liquid crystal lens with a tunable focal length and low voltage requirements. The device is polarization independent and capable of being used as either a positive or negative lens. Huang suggests implementation of the device in applications spanning optical communications fiber optic coupling adaptive optics wavefront error correction and electronic beam steering although no discussion of practical implementation or limitations is presented. U.S. Pat. No. 7 327 434 by Ren also teaches an electronically tunable lens device that uses uneven homogenous liquid crystal droplets. Ren teaches a gradient index liquid crystal lens with a tunable focal length independent of polarization and capable of being used as either a positive or negative lens. Such devices as taught by Huang and Ren are directly applicable to optical phased arrays that can be used for wavefront correction beam steering and adaptive lensing. These inventions are cited to demonstrate the progressing state of the art in optical phased array devices. It is possible to achieve polarization independent variable focusing and precision beam steering devices. There is clearly a need for an improved method of using such devices to optimize coupling of optical energy into an optical fiber one that uses a simple and efficient adaptive control approach.

The invention presents an approach and apparatus to improve coupling efficiency between a collimated free space optical signal and a single mode optical fiber. An active optical element such as a liquid crystal optical phased array is used to steer and focus the collimated beam onto the optical fiber. An adaptive control loop is implemented to maintain optimal pointing and focusing. The controller only requires a relatively straightforward measurement of optical power. The controller corrects for low order wavefront error focus tip and tilt in the collimated beam without computationally intensive analysis of wavefront sensor measurements. The control approach is relatively simple to implement and is robust to changes in system dynamics over time and operation.

Successful reception of photonic signals i.e. laser light over a free space optical communications link depends on many factors and the coupling of the free space optical beam into a fiber optic waveguide is particularly significant. Coupling refers to the transfer of photonic energy from one medium into another such as from a free space propagating laser beam into a fiber optic waveguide used to transport the photonic signal to its destination. An inefficient or ineffective coupling mechanism can result in data loss and reduced data transfer rates.

There are several phenomena that can reduce coupling efficiency such as beam walk exceeding the maximum acceptance angle and wavefront error. The performance of the optical transducer can be significantly reduced if these effects are not mitigated. For optimal coupling it is necessary that the light beam be steered onto the center of the fiber optic waveguide core. Beam walk occurs if the transmitted beam moves about the center of the fiber core. If the center of the transmitted beam moves away from the center of the fiber core some of the energy in the beam may be lost into the cladding or simply not transmitted into the fiber core. Beam walk can result from vibration or strain resulting from mechanical or thermal stresses in the terminal over time.

The conical angle of the incident light should be less than the maximum acceptance angle of the fiber optic else photonic energy will be lost into the core cladding. The maximum acceptance angle of a fiber optic is defined as 

Wavefront error can reduce coupling with the fiber optic waveguide as a result of focusing error or beam steering effects. Wavefront error is defined as deviation in the wavefront of the traveling light wave from the ideal or desired wavefront. Wavefront error can result from scintillation in the media through which the photonic signal propagates or can originate at the transmission source. Even if the collected light beam has no wavefront error imperfections in the beam train i.e. optical elements preceding the fiber optic can introduce aberrations that create wavefront error. This is illustrated in . In a collimated beam is incident on a focusing optic . A light beam is collimated if the light rays travel parallel to one another and with a planar wavefront that is perpendicular to the direction of travel. The focusing optic focuses the collimated beam onto the fiber optic waveguide . Ideally the transmitted light would have spherical wavefronts that converge to a single focal point. However in the focusing optic has introduced some aberration. At a fixed radial distance from the desired focal point the transmitted wavefront indicated with a solid line is not spherical as desired but instead varies with respect to a spherical wavefront indicated with a dashed line . This is wavefront error and results in imperfect focusing. To prevent this optics in the beam train and must be precisely manufactured and alignment of the beam train optics and must be carefully controlled. Temperature variations can create thermal gradients along the beam train that result in stresses which can induce strain displacements. Such displacements can create non uniform changes in the optical path length which also produce focusing and wavefront errors.

Phase Delay in an Active Optical Device. For light the optical path length OPL is the product of the distance traveled d and the index of refraction n of the medium through which it has traveled. This is expressed as OPL nd. 2 

The index of refraction through an active optical device can be varied by applying a voltage difference across the front and back planes of the device. The voltage induces a localized change in the index of refraction of the material contained within the device. An increase in the optical path length in one part of the device relative to the optical path length in an adjoining part of the device results in a phase difference between the wavefront of the light passing through different parts of the device.

To illustrate consider the two element planar device shown in . One element has index of refraction n the other has index of refraction n and each have thickness d. The difference in the optical path lengths can be expressed as OPL . 3 

Multiplying by the wavenumber k 2 where is the wavelength the phase difference in radians can be computed 

An Optical Phase Array. By adding a series of finely spaced transparent conducting electrodes to both the front and back planes as shown in and then applying a controlled spatial distribution of electrode voltages a varying phase delay profile can be generated across the device. For simplicity presents a rectangular aperture with electrode and in a single direction horizontal . In practice these devices can have circular apertures and a second layer of electrodes can be incorporated to facilitate beam steering or focusing in two dimensions i.e. both horizontally and vertically . Alternatively a second cascaded device rotated 90 degrees can be used to facilitate beam steering or focusing in two dimensions.

The device shown in performs as a one dimensional array of secondary emitters of electromagnetic waves in accordance with the Huygens Fresnel theory the Huygens Fresnel theory suggests that every unobstructed point of a wavefront serves as a source for secondary spherical wavelets . As such it can be modeled as a one dimensional array of emitters as shown in . If the secondary emitters radiate in phase i.e. coherently then incident electromagnetic waves will be re radiated as shown and constructively interfere with each other in the far field i.e. at a large distance from the array . This is an optical phased array. The intensity distribution within the diffraction pattern due to N coherent identical distant point sources in a linear array as shown in is given by the expression 

Beam Steering with an Optical Phased Array. An optical phase array can also be modeled as an array of phase shifters each phase shifter having width d and a center to center distance between shifters of d for simplicity as shown in . If d

Therefore to steer the main beam of the phased array to a desired angle from bore sight it can be shown by simple geometry that sin . 9 

The normalized intensity distribution as a function of for N 10 000 and 0.04 degrees is presented in k 4.2e6 m d 1e 6 m . shows that indeed the main beam is steered to 0.04 degrees as desired.

This method of beam steering by phase shifting can be used to compensate for undesired tip or tilt of the incident wavefront. Consider for instance that the incident wavefront has some tilt error that results in an incident angle 0.04 degrees as depicted in . Suppose that it is desired to point the transmitted beam to 0.0 degrees. For a 1 cm device with k 4.2e6 mand d 1e 6 m the necessary phase delay is 0.003 radians using Equation 9 . The resulting phase profile across the device is shown in . The phase delay from i 1 to i 2 is 0.003 radians which is a small fraction of a wavelength 0.04 . At element i 3 the added phase would be 0.006 radians. As shown in the phase increases at a linear rate across the phased array to nearly 30 radians dashed line . Since phase angle is circular it repeats itself every 2 radians. Thus it is equivalent to command the phase shifter to provide 0.003 radians 0.003 2 radians or 0.003 times any integer multiple of 2 . Consequently one can compute the modulus between the phase angle and 2 and let that be the commanded phase delay. This results in the saw tooth type phase profile shown in with the solid line. In summary with no phase delay provided by the device the transmitted light beam will be at an angle equal to the incident angle. However with an applied phase delay as shown in the transmitted beam will be steered to 0 degrees effectively compensating for the incident beam tilt.

Lensing with an Optical Phased Array. The optical phased array can be used to provide lensing i.e. beam focusing in much the same method that beam steering was accomplished. For lensing the optical phased array directs the transmitted beam so as to form a common focus point. Optical phased arrays have been used to generate both positive real focus and negative virtual focus lenses. This can be realized to a first approximation by considering the optical phased array as two devices the first consisting of elements i 1 2 . . . N 2 and having a first phase profile and the second consisting of elements i N 2 1 . . . N and having a second symmetric phase profile each steering to a common point. Consider for example a one dimensional optical phased array with length 1.0 cm separation between electrodes i.e. phase shifter centers of d 1e 6 m and operating at a wavelength of 1.5e 6 m. presents the computed phase profile across such device to result in a focus at 1 meter from the device positive lens . The profile is symmetric about the center of the array. The phase profile modulus 2 is given in . As noted this is a first order approximation to the necessary phase profile but is sufficient to demonstrate the concept. For a real device the phase delay would vary radially from the center of the device in a nonlinear fashion.

If the phase profile for lensing is denoted as i and the phase profile for steering is denoted as i the two can be superimposed to steer the position of the focal point . 10 

Adaptive Control of the Optical Phase Array. The objective of this invention is to couple optical energy into a fiber optic waveguide as shown in . presents a one dimensional model of an optical phased array having only one dimension that being length. The device spans from y to y a total length of 2y. depicts collimated light rays incident on the optical phased array then being focused into a fiber optic . The electronics used to operate the device and generate the necessary phase profile and electrode voltages is represented in as Phased Array Controller . Control of an optical phased array is typically accomplished using an application specific integrated circuit. The example depicted in is an open loop system which means that there is no means for establishing a feedback controller or adapting the optical phased array for variations in system configuration operation or performance. The present invention illustrated in proposes to implement a power sensor and adaptive controller to monitor the system for changes in performance and adjust the operation of the optical phased array through the phased array controller to maintain optimal coupling. This process will be referred to as auto calibration.

The adaptive controller adjusts three parameters that determine the phase profile of the optical phased array 1 focal length f 2 azimuth steering angle and 3 elevation steering angle . It is desired to maximize the overall coupling efficiency which can be defined as 

From Equation 11 it is clear that maximizing Pimplicitly maximizes . The performance metric for the controller is defined to be the overall coupling efficiency however the sensed variable used by the adaptive algorithm will be P. presents an approximation to the functional relationship between overall efficiency changes in focal length and steering angle for a nominal system design. Only one steering angle is presented due to the limitation of a three dimensional plot. At the optimal design point the efficiency in this example is about 0.8 and rolls off with increasing deviation.

In practice the system starts at a default design point having some initial value for f and . In the preferred embodiment the adaptive controller periodically executes an auto calibration cycle to adjust these parameters to the optimum design point f and . Alternatively the calibration cycle can be initiated if the measured performance drops below some threshold value.

The adaptive controller uses a gradient search maximization algorithm which is relatively simple and robust to implement. To explain the control algorithm let the sampled performance metric be denoted as J which is a discrete time measurements of P with the subscript k corresponding to the discrete time index not wavenumber. The performance metric will have the concave shape as the efficiency plotted in . At time index k the current values of the three parameters will be denoted as f and . The adaptive controller first computes a numerical approximation to the first derivative i.e. the gradient of the performance metric with respect to each parameter. This can be accomplished by a variety of numerical techniques such as the forward difference method 

Once the gradient is computed the parameters are then incrementally updated in the direction of the gradient for as long as the performance metric is improved that is J J. This can be expressed as 

Noise in the measured data can prevent accurate estimation of the performance metric and gradients. Therefore systems with sensor noise must use time averaging i.e. averaging over many samples to reduce the effects of sensor noise. Furthermore additional steps must be included in the process depicted in . After apparent convergence in a computed gradient direction the gradient must be recomputed. If the gradient is sufficiently small which indicates convergence the system is considered converged and the calibration cycle is complete. Else the parameters are incrementally updated along the new gradient direction.

Control Simulation 1. To illustrate consider the simple system with the performance function shown in and optimal design point of f 6.5 mm 0.0 and 0.0 which corresponds to an efficiency of 0.8. A sample rate of 10 kHz was assumed for this example to provide a time line for the simulation. Now assume this system is subjected to an external disturbance that changes the optimal focal length by f 0.003 mm and the optimal azimuth steering angle by 0.002 . The gradient was computed and the parameters f and were adapted to re converge to the optimal design point as shown in . Essentially the system adapted to compensate for the disturbance. In this example only 13 iterations were required to adapt from an efficiency of 0.58 to 0.7911 f 2.2e 5 mm and 1.4e 5 . Since was not perturbed in this example the gradient about was effectively zero and therefore no changes were made to that parameter. No sensor noise was included in this example.

Wavefront Error Compensation. This example shows that the adaptive controller can adjust the parameters of the optical phased array to compensate for deviation in the operating parameters from the optimal design point particularly the focal length and steering angle. Research in optical phased arrays has revealed that such devices are suitable for correcting optical aberrations that can be expressed using low order Zernike polynomials. Zernike polynomials are an orthogonal set of basis functions that can be used to describe some optical aberrations. Zernike polynomials are nonlinear functions of the aperture radius and rotation angle about the aperture cross section. The wavefront can be expressed as a weighted summation of the Zernike polynomial terms 

Control Simulation 2. Consider the following simulation which uses the same performance metric used in the previous example. This simulation included sensor noise zero mean standard deviation of unity which was added to the measurement of P. The quantity of added noise was defined in terms of the signal to noise SNR ratio which was defined as the ratio of Pto the power of the added noise P in terms of decibels. This is expressed as 

As a consequence of the added noise the estimate of the performance function for a given parameter set J must be computed as the time average of many measurements 

Initially the simulation started with no errors yielding an efficiency of 0.8. At 100 ms tip error Zernike polynomial z was introduced that resulted in 0.002 degrees of elevation error. The effect on efficiency can be seen in the time history given in . At 200 ms a second tilt error Zernike polynomial z was introduced that resulted in 0.003 degrees of azimuth error. At 300 ms a focus or power error Zernike polynomial z was introduced that resulted in a change from the optimal focal length of 0.0015 mm. At 400 ms a calibration cycle was initiated. In this simulation the system re converged by 1000 ms. Convergence was slowed by the added sensor noise.

This simulation suggests that the adaptive controller can adapt the phase profile of the optical phased array to correct for physical perturbations of the system as seen in the first simulation and correct for aberrations in the wavefront as seen in the second simulation . Compensating for wavefront error did not require imaging or image analysis. Convergence rates were dependent upon the signal to noise ratio. No system models were required and neither was there an explicit feedback loop.

In summary the system is able to periodically optimize alignment and focus of the free space optical signal into the fiber core using only a measure of transmitted power in the fiber. The adaptive controller does not require a model based feedback controller so it is easier to implement and more robust than the prior art. The adaptive controller compensates for time varying changes in the physical system that might result from mechanical stress thermal stress and vibration. The system can also compensate for wavefront errors that can be represented by low order Zernike polynomials which typically are the most significant factors in wavefront error. The wavefront compensation is accomplished without analysis of the transmitted wavefront it is implicitly accomplished by maximization of power transmission.

A liquid crystal optical phased array is only one choice for the active optical element. Other types of devices may be used that comprise different materials. The system may or may not match the maximum acceptance angle defined by the single mode fiber which is believed to be the optimum embodiment. The system may be used for either space based laser communication satellites or terrestrial data transfer applications although autonomous self calibration would be more valuable for an on orbit system which cannot be manually corrected. As such it would justify the additional cost and complexity of a self calibrating active optical system. For a space system the lasercom terminal optical elements and fiber optic waveguides would be fabricated from space flight qualified materials which may require an alternative active material instead of liquid crystal.

