---

title: Analog access circuit for validating chalcogenide memory cells
abstract: An analog access circuit for characterizing chalcogenide memory cells is disclosed. The analog access circuit includes an analog access control module, an address and data control module, and an analog cell access and current monitoring module. The analog access control module selectively controls whether a normal memory access or an analog memory access should be performed on a specific chalcogenide memory cell. The address and data control module allows a normal memory access to the chalcogenide memory cell according to an input address. The analog cell access and current monitoring module performs an analog memory access to the chalcogenide memory cell according to the input address, and monitors a reference current from a sense amplifier associated with the chalcogenide memory cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07986550&OS=07986550&RS=07986550
owner: Ovonyx, Inc.
number: 07986550
owner_city: Rochester Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
The present application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 365 to the previously filed international patent application number PCT US2008 084784 filed on Nov. 26 2008 assigned to the assignee of the present application and having a priority date of Nov. 30 2007 based upon U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 991 428 filed Nov. 30 2007. The contents of both applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was made with United States Government assistance under Contract No. FA9453 04 C 0052 awarded by the United States Air Force. The United States Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to memory devices in general and in particular to an analog access circuit for validating chalcogenide memory cells.

Chalcogenide random access memory utilizes a thermally activated rapid reversible change in the structure of the chalcogenide alloy for storing data. This type of phase change memories has been under development for several years at semiconductor manufacturing facilities worldwide. A memory cell made of chalcogenide alloy can be programmed to an amorphous state having a high resistance or a polycrystalline state having a low resistance which can be referred to as a logical 0 or a logical 1 respectively.

In a chalcogenide memory device a read failure may come from either a defected chalcogenide memory cell or a defected sense amplifier circuit. It is impossible to differentiate the source of such read failure with digital circuits designed for conventional memory devices.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention an analog access circuit is utilized to isolate a specific chalcogenide memory cell within a memory array for the purpose of characterizing the chalcogenide memory cell. The analog access circuit includes an analog access control module an address and data control module and an analog cell access and current monitoring module. The analog access control module selectively controls whether a normal memory access or an analog memory access should be performed on the chalcogenide memory cell. The address and data control module allows a normal memory access to the chalcogenide memory cell according to an input address. The analog cell access and current monitoring module performs an analog memory access to the chalcogenide memory cell according to the input address and monitors a reference current from a sense amplifier associated with the chalcogenide memory cell.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is illustrated a current voltage curve of a chalcogenide memory cell as the chalcogenide memory cell is being programmed and read. As shown the chalcogenide material in the chalcogenide memory cell behaves like a quasi linear resistor in a polycrystalline state and the chalcogenide material exhibits a voltage snap back at approximately a threshold voltage Vin an amorphous state.

The chalcogenide memory cell can be placed in a read mode when the applied voltage to the chalcogenide material within the chalcogenide memory cell is lower than the threshold voltage V. Conversely the chalcogenide memory cell can be placed in a program or write mode when the applied voltage to chalcogenide material within the chalcogenide memory cell is higher than the threshold voltage V. During the program mode the chalcogenide memory cell can be programmed to either a low resistance state i.e. a logical 1 or set or a high resistance state i.e. a logical 0 or reset by utilizing different write current amplitude to heat the chalcogenide material within the chalcogenide memory cell to either the polycrystalline state or the amorphous state respectively as shown in .

Writing a logical 1 requires a lower current amplitude and a relatively long cooling time. In contrast writing a logical 0 requires a higher current amplitude and a much shorter cooling time.

An extrapolation of the linear region of the current voltage curve in to the x axis yields a point known as a holding voltage V. In order to exit the program mode the applied voltage to the chalcogenide memory cell must be less than the holding voltage V.

Direct access read or write to each chalcogenide memory cell using an analog access circuit is a relatively slow but more accurate tool for validating and characterizing chalcogenide memory cells within a chalcogenide memory device. An analog access circuit can be embedded in each sense amplifier and write head throughout a chalcogenide memory device. The analog access circuit shares the same address decoding logic with the digital circuit such that the resistance of chalcogenide memory cells can be measured in parallel. By stepping through the entire memory address space the chalcogenide memory cell resistance write current and read reference current distribution across the chalcogenide memory cells within a chalcogenide memory device can be monitored.

With reference now to there is depicted a block diagram of an analog access circuit in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown an analog access circuit includes an analog access control module an address and data control module and an analog cell access and current monitoring module . Analog access control module controls whether normal digital memory access or analog memory access should be performed on each memory cell. The difference between normal memory access and analog memory access is the type of information that can be obtained from a chalcogenide memory cell. A normal memory access yields a current or voltage value from a chalcogenide memory cell which generally corresponds to a logical 1 or a logical 0 as they are related to a specific chalcogenide processing technology. On the other hand an analog memory access yields a more specific current value from a chalcogenide memory cell depending of the exact input voltage value to the chalcogenide memory cell. The more specific current value can be converted to a specific cell resistance value intended for the characterization of the chalcogenide memory cell.

Address and data control module allows normal memory access to a specific chalcogenide memory cell according to an input address. Analog cell access and current monitoring module allow analog memory access to a specific chalcogenide memory cell according to an input address and monitors the reference current from a sense amplifier corresponding to the specific chalcogenide memory cell.

Analog access control module includes three inputs namely an Analog RW EN input a WEN input and an Analog TC input. The ability to perform analog reads and or analog writes to each chalcogenide memory cell can be activated by setting the Analog RW EN input and the WEN input to high and the Analog TC input to low. When performing an analog read a voltage that is lower than the chalcogenide threshold voltage Vis applied through ANALOG inputs outputs of current monitoring module . When performing an analog write a voltage that is higher than the chalcogenide threshold voltage Vis applied through ANALOG inputs outputs of current monitoring module .

The write current in each write head circuit can be monitored by setting the Analog RW EN input of analog access control module and a W END ACC input of data control module to high and the WEN input of analog access control module and Data in inputs of data control module to low. Similarly the sense amplifier reference current can be monitored by setting the Analog RW EN input the WEN input and the Analog TC input of analog access control module to high. A certain amount of voltage will be forced through the ANALOG inputs outputs of current monitoring module and the reference current can be measured through the ANALOG inputs outputs of current monitoring module .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of an analog access in a chalcogenide memory cell in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. During an analog read mode all internal current paths into a chalcogenide memory cell are shut off by opening switches K K Kand K which allows an accurate measurement of the current flowing through chalcogenide memory cell after a small external voltage not shown is applied to chalcogenide memory cell . The external voltage is preferably in the range of a few hundred millivolts. All switches except Kare open during the measurement of the resistance of chalcogenide memory cell .

During an analog write mode only switches Kand Kare closed. After a write operation has been performed to chalcogenide memory cell analog access circuit from monitors the reference current from a corresponding sense amplifier along with a current reference module to generates an exact cell resistance of chalcogenide memory cell .

As has been described the present invention provides an analog access circuit for validating and characterizing chalcogenide memory cells within a chalcogenide memory device.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

