---

title: Architectural design for selling project-based services application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing the selling of project-based services are disclosed. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include a Project Processing process component that supports the management of projects, a Supplier Invoice Processing process component that manages supplier invoices, an Accounting process component that records relevant business transactions, a Customer Invoice Processing process component that manages customer invoices, and a Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component that receives a confirmation from an employee of goods received or services rendered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321306&OS=08321306&RS=08321306
owner: SAP AG
number: 08321306
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20081203
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for selling project based services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a selling project based services software application.

In its various aspects the present subject matter can be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing time recording. The software application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces and multiple service operations each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component a Project Processing process component an Accounting process component a Pricing Engine process component a Customer Project Invoice Preparation process component a Project Processing process component a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Payment Processing process component a Due Item Processing process component a Costing process component a Time and Labor Management process component a Customer Relationship Auxiliaries Processing process component a Customer Invoice Processing process component a Sales Order Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component an Opportunity Processing process component an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component an Inventory Processing process component a Supplier Invoice Processing process component a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component a Goods and Services Acknowledgement process component and a Purchasing Contract Processing process component.

In its various aspects the subject matter can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with externals software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a subcombination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the sell project based services design includes a Project Management deployment unit a Human Capital Management deployment unit a Financials deployment unit a Purchasing deployment unit a Customer Invoicing deployment unit a Supplier Invoicing deployment unit a Customer Relationship Management deployment unit an Expense and Reimbursement Management deployment unit and a Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit .

The Project Management deployment unit includes a Project Processing process component and a Customer Project Invoice Preparation processing component . The Project Processing process component is responsible for structuring planning and executing simple short term measures and complex projects. The Customer Project Invoice Preparation processing component is responsible for creating invoice requisitions for a customer project based on the expenses incurred the project progress and the invoicing agreements.

The Human Capital Management deployment unit includes a Time and Labor Management process component . The Time and Labor Management process component supports the management of employees planned working times and the recording and valuation of work performed and absence times. The Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit includes an Inventory Processing process component . The Inventory Processing process component supports the management of inventory and recording of inventory changes. It can also provide services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations.

The Financials deployment unit includes an Accounting process component a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Due Item Processing process component a Payment Processing process component and a Costing process component . The Accounting process component records relevant business transactions for valuation and profitability analysis. The Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component is responsible for the collection processing and reporting of receivables and payables according to foreign trade regulations that are required by the financial authority of a country such as the central bank. The Due Item Processing process component is responsible for the collection management and monitoring of trade receivables or payables and corresponding sales tax or withholding tax. The Payment Processing process component is responsible for the processing and management of all payments. The Payment Processing process component can also be responsible for associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and provides the primary input for liquidity management. The Costing process component is responsible for the estimation of costs for objects such as materials projects service products sales order items or production lots.

The Purchasing deployment unit includes a Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component a Purchasing Contract Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component and a Purchase Request Processing process component . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component represents a confirmation by an employee of goods received or services rendered. The Purchasing Contract Processing process component is responsible for the creation and maintenance of purchasing contracts. The Purchase Order Processing process component is responsible for the creation and maintenance of purchase orders and purchase order confirmations. The Purchase Request Processing process component is responsible for the creation changing and processing of purchase requests to locate appropriate external sources of supply.

The Supplier Invoicing deployment unit includes a Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Supplier Invoice Processing process component is responsible for the management and volume processing of supplier invoices including exception handling and approval.

The Expense and Reimbursement Management deployment unit includes an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component . The Expense and Reimbursement Management process component is responsible for the management and monitoring of expenses incurred by employees and the reimbursement of such expenses to employees. The Expense and Reimbursement Management process component can be responsible for the entire process of verifying the validity of expenses submitted by internal or external employees settling the expenses in conformance with legal requirements and company policy reimbursing the expenses to the employees transferring the expenses to financial accounting and transferring taxable amounts to payroll for internal employees.

The Customer Invoicing deployment unit includes a Customer Invoice Processing process component . The Customer Invoice Processing process component is responsible for the invoicing of customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services.

The Customer Relationship Management deployment unit includes an Opportunity Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component a Sales Order Processing process component and a Customer Relationship Auxiliaries Processing process component . The Opportunity Processing process component is responsible for the development processing and monitoring of opportunities with the aim to initiate sales and service deals. The Customer Quote Processing process component is responsible for the processing of quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms. The Sales Order Processing process component is responsible for the processing of customers requests to seller for the delivery of goods on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The Customer Relationship Auxiliaries Processing process component is responsible for the processing of supplementary functions that support customer relationship management. For example a supplementary function can be a view of a project or the processing of payment card authorization.

The foundation layer described below includes an Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component and a Pricing Engine processing component . The Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component handles the registration and checking of all accounting objects that can be assigned in a source document for a business transaction such as cost center project or market segment. The Pricing Engine process component handles the processing of price and tax calculations. The process component can dispatch a check request to the Financials deployment unit .

A number of external process components described below will be used to describe the architectural design. These include an RFQ Processing at Customer process component a Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component a Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component a Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component a Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component a Due Item Processing at Business Partner process component a Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component and an External Tax Calculation process component .

The RFQ Processing at Customer process component receives messages from the Customer Quote Processing process component related to the creation or update of a customer quote offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms.

The Sales Order Processing process component receives requests for the delivery of goods on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price from the Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component .

The Pricing Engine process component requests a tax calculation from the External Tax Collection process component

The Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component receives messages from the Customer Invoice Processing process component . The messages can be invoices to the customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services.

The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component receives supplier invoices for the delivery of goods or services from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component receives purchase orders from the Purchase Order Processing process component .

The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component the Bank statement creation at bank process component and the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component can interact with the Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component can send updates to a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component which is used to handle payments at a business partner. The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component can also be responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and can provide the primary input for liquidity management. The Payment Processing process component can also receive messages from the Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component . The message can include a bank statement for a bank account. The Payment Processing Process component can send messages to the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The messages can include a bank payment order that is a payment order which can be sent to a house bank. The bank payment order can include bank transfers as well direct debits.

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging to one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notify of Supplier Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent sends a notification about accounting relevant data from a posted or cancelled supplier invoice typically to accounting. The Notify of Invoice operation sends a notification about accounting relevant data from a posted supplier invoice. The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation sends a notification about accounting relevant data from a previously posted supplier invoice that is cancelled. The operations and are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation generates an Invoice Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on invoice data received from the Customer Invoice Processing process component or the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The received data can be first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents can be created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation is included in an Invoice Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update an Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. In particular the Accounting Notification business object represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Invoice Accounting In interface receives the Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from Customer Invoice Processing process component or the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The received data can be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents can be created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

The Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object . The Bank Payment Order business object represents an order sent to a house bank to make a transfer or direct debit from a specified house bank account in order to fulfill a payment order.

The Bank Payment Order business object uses a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment to House Bank outbound process agent to create a file based bank payment order to be sent to the house bank. The outbound process agent invokes a Request File based Payment Order operation . The operation instructs a house bank to make a bank transfer direct debit outgoing check or bill of exchange payable. The Request File based Payment Order operation is included in a Payment Ordering Out interface . The Request File based Payment Order operation sends a File Based Collective Payment Order Request message to the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Request File based Payment Order operation generates the File Based Collective Payment Order Request message . The message is a request based on a file transfer to a credit institution to carry out one or more payment transactions such as bank transfers or direct debits. The File based Collective Payment Order Request message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message that can be received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The message is a request based on a file transfer to a credit institution to carry out one or more payment transactions such as bank transfers or direct debits for Germany with file format DTAZV. The Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component sends information to the Payment Processing process component using a Payment Ordering In attachment communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notice of Invoice operation or a Notice of Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notice of Invoice operation sends a notification about a posted supplier invoice. The Notice of Invoice Cancellation operation sends a notification about a previously posted supplier invoice that is cancelled. The operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . The Notice of Invoice operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message . The message is a notification about the creation of receivables or payables related to a non resident business partner.

A Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the message . The Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation creates a receivable or payable from foreign trade. The Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation is included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The Foreign Receivable Payable business object represents a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner.

The Notice of Invoice Cancellation operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message . A Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation in the Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface receives the Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message is a notification about the cancellation of receivables or payables related to a non resident business partner. The Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation sends a notification about the cancellation of a receivable customer invoice related to a non resident buyer. The operation uses the Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update the Foreign Receivable Payable business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing at Business Partner and Payment Processing 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes the Payment Advice business object . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons. A Payment Advice Notification message is received from the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component by a Create Payment Advice operation . The message is a notification of a payment with explanations about the reason for payment. The Create Payment Advice operation is included in an Incoming Payment Advicing In interface . The operation creates a payment advice sent from a business partner or house bank concerning future payment transactions. The Create Payment Advice operation uses a Maintain Payment Advice inbound process agent to update a Payment Advice business object .

The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component sends information to the Payment Processing process component using a Processing at Business Partner Out XI communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. While XI represents Exchange Infrastructure any similar or suitable third party or proprietary toll may be used to perform the functions provided by or describe in relation to XI.

The Payment Processing process component receives information from a Processing at Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component includes an Expense Report business object . The Expense Report business object represents a list of receipts for the expenses incurred for the company within a certain period of time that are to be reimbursed to an expense reporter. For example in the case of a business trip it can also contain the reason for the trip and general information such as destinations dates and times and mileages.

The Expense Report business object uses a Notify of Project Expense from Expense Report to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Expense operation . The operation notifies project processing about settlement results related to a project. The Notify of Project Expense operation is included in a Project Expense Notification Out interface . The operation sends a Project Expense View Notification message . The Project Expense View Notification message is a notification that contains information about expense incurred for a project

A Maintain Project Expense View operation receives the Project Expense View Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification In interface . The Maintain Project Expense View operation creates or cancels a project expense. The operation uses a Maintain Project Expense View inbound process agent to update a Project Expense View business object . The Project Expense View business object represents a project management view of a project related expense resulting from a business transaction.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object and a Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order Confirmation business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order Creation operation a Request Purchase Order Change operation or a Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation . The Request Purchase Order Creation operation requests sales order processing at a supplier to process a new purchase order. The Request Purchase Order Change operation requests sales order processing at a supplier to change a previously sent purchase order. The Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation requests sales order processing at a supplier to cancel a previously sent purchase order. The operations and are included in an Ordering Out interface . The Request Purchase Order Creation operation generates a Purchase Order Request message . The message is a request from a buyer to the seller to deliver goods or provide services.

A Create Sales Order operation receives the Purchase Order Request message . The Create Sales Order operation creates the sales order based on the purchase order. The Create Sales Order operation is included in an Ordering In interface . The operation uses a Confirm Sales Order to Customer inbound process agent to update a Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Request Purchase Order Change operation generates a Purchase Order Change Request message . A Change Sales Order operation in the Ordering In interface receives the Purchase Order Change Request message from the Purchase Order Processing process component . The Change Sales Order operation updates the sales order based on changes from the purchase order. The operation uses the Confirm Sales Order to Customer inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

The Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation generates a Purchase Order Cancellation Request message . A Cancel Sales Order operation in the Ordering In interface receives the Purchase Order Cancellation Request message from the Purchase Order Processing process component . The Cancel Sales Order operation cancels the sales order based on the cancellation of a purchase order from the customer. The operation uses the Confirm Sales Order to Customer inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

The Sales Order business object uses a Maintain Sales Order outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Sales Order operation . The operation is included in an Ordering Out interface . The Confirm Sales Order operation confirms changes in the sales order to the customer. The operation sends a Purchase Order Confirmation message .

A Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation receives the Purchase Order Confirmation message . The operation is included in an Ordering In interface . The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation creates a purchase order confirmation based on the supplier s response to a purchase order. The operation uses a Create Purchase Order Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order Confirmation business object .

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Clearing business object . The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing. The Due Clearing business object uses a Notify of Clearing to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Clearing operation . The operation is included in a Due Clearing Out interface . The Notify of Clearing operation notifies the Customer Invoice Processing process component about clearing of trade receivables. The operation generates a Due Clearing Notification message .

A Change Customer Invoice operation receives the Due Clearing Notification message . The operation is included in a Due Clearing In interface . The Change Customer Invoice operation changes a customer invoice based on due clearing. The operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice based on Clearing inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Purchasing Contract Processing 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. In another example some invoiced goods may require a duty and as such a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Contract Release from Supplier Invoice to Purchasing Contract Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Contract Release operation . The operation is included in a Contract Release Out interface . The Notify of Contract Release operation sends a notification about the posting of a supplier invoice that contains a reference to a purchasing contract. The operation generates a Purchasing Contract Release message .

A Maintain Purchasing Contract Release operation receives the Purchasing Contract Release message . The operation is included in a Contract Release In interface . The Maintain Purchasing Contract Release operation creates the release history of a purchasing contract. The operation uses a Maintain Purchasing Contract Release inbound process agent to update a Purchasing Contract business object . The Purchasing Contract business object represents a legally binding purchase agreement that contains special conditions that are negotiated between a buyer and a seller covering goods to be supplied or services to be performed. The Purchasing Contract business object can be valid for a specific period during which goods and services are released against the contract.

As shown in a bank statement is created at a bank and a Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message is created. The Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the BAI2 ST file format message type to a Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message about a collection of bank statements for a specific bank account that can be received by the Payment Processing process component . The Bank Account Statement Collection Notification message is received in the Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Statement Processing In interface . The interface includes a Create Bank Statement Collection operation . The operation creates a collection of bank statements in the Payment Processing process component . A Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent updates a House Bank Statement business object with a new bank statement. The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the transactions within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

The Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component receives information from a Notify of Bank Account Statement attachment communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes the Due Clearing business object . The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing.

The Due Clearing business object uses a Notify of Clearing to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Clearing operation . The operation is included in a Due Clearing Out interface . The Notify of Clearing operation notifies customer invoice processing about clearing of trade receivables. The operation sends a Due Clearing Notification message .

A Change Supplier Invoice operation receives the Due Clearing Notification message . The operation is included in a Due Clearing In interface . The Change Supplier Invoice operation changes a supplier invoice based on due clearing. The operation uses a Change Supplier Invoice based on Due Clearing Notification inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The Customer Quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer can be legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

The Customer Quote business object uses a Notify Customer Quote to Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Customer Quote operation . The operation is included in a Quote Processing Out interface . The Notify of Customer Quote operation notifies the customer about the customer quote. The operation generates a Form Quote Notification message . The message can be sent to the RFQ Processing at Customer process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing and Project Processing 

As shown in the Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component includes an Accounting Coding Block Distribution business object . The Accounting Coding Block Distribution business object represents the distribution of coding blocks to enterprise resources changes such as expenses or material movements. For example a coding block is a set of accounting objects to which an enterprise resource change is assigned. The resource change can be valued in accounting.

The Accounting Coding Block Distribution business object uses a Synchronous Request Project Task Accountability Information outbound process agent to invoke a Request Project Task Accountability Information operation . The operation is included in a Project Task Accountability Out interface . The Request Project Task Accountability Information operation checks the given tasks for existence and availability for expense or resource assignment in financial accounting. The check can occur in the Project Processing process component . The Request Project Task Accountability Information operation sends an Accounting Object Check Request message .

A Check Project Task Accountability operation receives the Accounting Object Check Request message . The operation is included in a Project Task Accountability In interface . The Check Project Task Accountability operation checks whether a task can be posted for accounting. The operation uses a Synchronous Check Project Task Accountability inbound process agent to update a Project business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that is to be attained in a specified time frame. For example the business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk.

The Check Project Task Accountability operation generates an Accounting Object Check Confirmation message . The Request Project Task Accountability Information operation receives the Accounting Object Check Confirmation message . The message is a confirmation about the existence of one or more accounting objects and whether they are permitted for assignment.

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Project Invoice Preparation and Customer Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Customer Project Invoice Requisition process component includes a Customer Project Invoice Requisition business object . The Customer Project Invoice Requisition business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer can be legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

The Customer Project Invoice Requisition business object uses a Request Invoicing from Customer Project Invoice Requisition to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The Request Invoicing operation requests the creation of a customer invoice request or updates a customer invoice request previously created. The Request Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The operation sends a Customer Invoice Request message .

A Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation receives the Customer Invoice Request message . The operation creates updates or cancels a customer invoice request. The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface .

The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Confirm Customer Invoice to Customer Project Invoice Preparation outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Invoicing operation . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer. The Confirm Invoicing operation confirms that invoicing has taken place. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The Confirm Invoicing operation sends a Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message to the Customer Project Invoice Preparation process component .

The message is received in a Change Customer Project Invoice Requisition based on Customer Invoice operation . The Change Customer Project Invoice Requisition based on Customer Invoice operation confirms that a customer invoice based on a customer project invoice requisition was created or cancelled. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Change Customer Project Invoice Requisition based on Customer Invoice operation uses a Change Customer Project Invoice Requisition based on Customer Invoice inbound process agent to update the Customer Project Invoice Requisition business object .

As shown in the Project Processing process component includes a Project Purchase Request business object . The Project Purchase Request business object represents the requesting of the creation of a purchase request triggered by the Project Processing process component . The Purchase Request Processing process component reports the creation of the purchase request back to the Project Processing process component .

The Project Purchase Request business object uses a Request Purchasing from Project Purchase Request to Purchase Request Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchasing operation . The Request Purchasing operation requests that a purchaser procure services externally for a project. The Request Purchasing operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation sends a Purchase Request message to the Purchase Request Processing process component .

A Maintain Purchase Request operation receives the Purchase Request message . The operation creates or updates a purchase request. The Maintain Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Purchase Request inbound process agent updates a Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Request business object uses a Confirm Purchase Request outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Purchase Request operation . The Confirm Purchase Request operation confirms the creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requestor. The operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The Confirm Purchase Request operation sends a Purchase Request Confirmation message .

The Purchase Request Confirmation message is received in a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Confirmation operation . The Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Confirmation operation changes the project purchase request based on a confirmation from purchasing about the degree to which a request has been fulfilled. The operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Confirmation operation uses a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Project Purchase Request business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notify of Invoice operation informs the Customer Invoice Processing process component about an invoice in order to track a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner. The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation informs the Customer Invoice Processing process component about the cancellation of an invoice in order to also cancel information about a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner. The operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation sends a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component .

A Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the message . The Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation creates a receivable or payable from a foreign trade. The Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation is included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update the Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The Foreign Receivable Payable business object represents a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner. The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation sends a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message .

A Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation in the Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface receives the Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message . The Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation creates a receivable or a payable from foreign trade. The operation uses the Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update the Foreign Receivable Payable business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Purchase Order Processing and Sales Order Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order Creation operation . The operation is included in an Ordering Out interface . The Request Purchase Order Creation operation requests sales order processing at the supplier to process a new purchase order. The operation sends an Interactive Form Purchase Order Confirmation message .

The Purchase Order business object uses the Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order Change operation . The operation is included in the Ordering Out interface . The Request Purchase Order Change operation requests sales order processing at the supplier to change a previously sent purchase order. The operation sends an Interactive Form Purchase Order Confirmation message .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component generates an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message . The message is an additional message type to enable interactive data entry in a purchase order request. The Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the form based message type to a Purchase Order Confirmation message that can be received by a Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation . The message is a confirmation partial confirmation or a change about the requested or cancelled delivery of goods or provision of services sent from the seller to the buyer.

The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation uses a Create Purchase Order Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The operation creates a purchase order confirmation based on the supplier s response to a purchase order. The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation is included in an Ordering In interface . The Purchase Order Confirmation business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order Processing process component sends information to the Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component using a Processing at Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component receives information from a Processing at Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Pricing Engine process component includes a Price and Tax Calculation business object . The Price and Tax Calculation business object represents the summary of the determined price and tax components for a business case.

The Price and Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Price and Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Tax Calculation operation . The operation is included in an External Tax Calculation Out interface . The Request Product Tax Calculation operation requests product tax calculation from an external tax calculation system. The operation sends an External Product Tax Calculation Request message . The External Tax Calculation process component receives the External Product Tax Calculation Request message .

The External Tax Calculation process component sends an External Product Tax Calculation Confirmation message to the Request Product Tax Calculation operation . A Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation outbound process agent to invoke the Request Product Tax Calculation operation .

The Pricing Engine process component receives information from a Processing at Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Calendar business object . The Employee Time Calendar business object represents a read only calendar representation of time valuation results that are derived from the recorded times of an employee.

The Employee Time Calendar business object uses a Notify of Service Provision from Employee Time Calendar to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Service Provision operation or a Notify of Service Provision Cancellation operation . The Notify of Service Provision operation notifies accounting of a service provision. For example this notification is sent when an active employee time that contains information relevant for accounting is created. The Notify of Service Provision Cancellation operation notifies accounting of the cancellation of a service provision. For example this notification is sent when an active employee time that contains information relevant for accounting is cancelled. The operations and are included in a Service Provision Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Service Provision operation sends a Service Provision Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on resource consumption data received from a Production process component a Service Request Processing process component a Service Confirmation Processing process component a Time and Labor Management process component or a Project Processing process component. For example the received data is first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation is included in a Service Provision Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Service Provision inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Service Provision Cancellation operation sends a Service Provision Cancellation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Service Provision Accounting In interface receives the Service Provision Cancellation Accounting Notification message from the Time and Labor Management process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from a Production process component a Service Request Processing process component a Service Confirmation Processing process component a Time and Labor Management process component or a Project Processing process component. For example the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Service Provision inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

As shown in the Purchase Request Processing process component includes the Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object represents the requesting of the creation of a purchase request triggered by the Project Processing process component .

The Purchase Request business object uses a Notify of Purchase Request to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Request operation . The operation is included in a Purchasing Notification Out interface . The Notify of Purchase Request operation notifies a project about a purchase request with project account assignment. In some implementations this purchase request may not be initiated by the Project Processing process component . The operation sends a Purchase Request Notification message to the Project Processing process component .

A Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Notification operation receives the Purchase Request Notification message . The operation is included in a Purchasing Notification In interface . The Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Notification operation changes the project purchase request based on a notification about the creation of a new purchase request or a change to an existing purchase request. The operation uses a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Notification inbound process agent to update the Project Purchase Request business object . The Project Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time.

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Calendar business object . The Employee Time Calendar business object represents a read only calendar representation of time valuation results that are derived from the recorded times of an employee.

The Employee Time Calendar business object uses a Notify of Project Task Confirmation from Employee Time Calendar to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation . The operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation Out interface . The Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation notifies the Project Processing process component of a project task confirmation or a project task status change. For example this notification is sent when project relevant information is created changed or cancelled in an active employee time. The operation generates a Project Task Confirmation Notification message .

A Change Project based on Employee Time Calendar operation receives the Project Task Confirmation Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation In interface . The Change Project based on Employee Time Calendar operation updates a project based on confirmations or cancellations of actual work for project tasks. The operation uses a Change Project based on Employee Time Calendar inbound process agent to update the Project business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that is to be attained in a specified time frame. For example the business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk.

As shown in the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component includes the Expense Report business object . The Expense Report business object represents a list of receipts for the expenses incurred for the company within a certain period of time that are to be reimbursed to an expense reporter. For example in the case of a business trip it can also contain the reason for the trip and general information such as destinations dates and times and mileages.

The Expense Report business object uses a Notify of Settlement Result from Expense Report to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Settlement Result operation or a Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation . The Notify of Settlement Result operation notifies accounting about the settlement results to post the costs of an expense report. The Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation notifies accounting that an expense report was cancelled. The operations and are included in an Expense Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Settlement Result operation sends an Expense Report Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on expense data received from the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component . In some implementations the received data is first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation is included in an Expense Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Expense inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example it can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation sends an Expense Report Cancellation Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Expense Accounting In interface receives the Expense Report Cancellation Accounting Notification message from the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component . In some implementations the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Expense inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Sales Order Processing and Customer Project Invoice Preparation 

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes the Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Sales Order business object uses a Request Invoicing from Sales Order to Customer Project Invoice Preparation outbound process agent to invoke a Request Customer Project Invoicing operation . The Request Customer Project Invoicing operation requests invoicing for a customer project. The Request Customer Project Invoicing operation is included in a Request Customer Project Invoicing Out interface . The operation sends a Customer Project Invoicing Agreement Maintain Request message .

A Maintain Customer Project Invoicing Agreement operation receives the Customer Project Invoicing Agreement Maintain Request message . The operation creates updates or cancels a customer project invoicing agreement. The Maintain Customer Project Invoicing Agreement operation is included in a Request Customer Project Invoicing In interface .

A Maintain Customer Project Invoicing Agreement inbound process agent updates a Customer Project Invoicing Agreement business object . The Customer Project Invoicing Agreement business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer that defines how the expenses related to a customer project are to be invoiced for the agreed output.

The Customer Project Invoicing Agreement business object uses a Confirm Customer Project Invoice Issued from Customer Project Invoice Agreement to Sales Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Customer Project Invoicing operation . The Confirm Customer Project Invoicing operation confirms to a sales order that a customer invoice was created. The operation is included in a Request Customer Project Invoicing Out interface . The Confirm Customer Project Invoicing operation generates a Customer Project Invoicing Agreement Maintain Confirmation message .

The message is received in a Charge Sales Order based on Customer Project Invoicing Agreement operation . The Charge Sales Order based on Customer Project Invoicing Agreement operation updates a sales order from a customer project invoicing agreement. The operation is included in a Request Customer Project Invoicing In interface . The Charge Sales Order based on Customer Project Invoicing Agreement operation uses a Change Sales Order based on Customer Project Invoicing Agreement inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from Purchase Order to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation notifies the Supplier Invoice Processing process component about a new changed or cancelled purchase order. The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The operation generates an Invoicing Due Notification message .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the Invoicing Due Notification message . The operation creates updates deletes or requests the cancellation of a supplier invoice request based on the invoicing relevant data that is transferred from a purchasing system. The Maintain Invoice Request operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface .

A Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent updates a Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a request to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected and is to be created through evaluated receipt settlement.

The Supplier Invoice Request business object uses a Notify of Invoice Values from Supplier Invoice Processing to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice Values operation . The Notify of Invoice Values operation sends a notification about the actual values and quantities of a supplier invoice that has been saved and contains a reference to a purchase order. The operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The Notify of Invoice Values operation generates a Purchase Order Invoice Values Notification message .

The message is received in a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation . The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation updates a purchase order based on invoice data. The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation uses a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Goods and Service Acknowledgement and Supplier Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component includes a Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services or the return of goods.

The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from Goods and Service Acknowledgement to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation sends invoicing relevant data about delivered materials or rendered services to invoicing. The operation generates an Invoicing Due Notification message .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the Invoicing Due Notification message . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The Maintain Invoice Request operation creates updates deletes or requests the cancellation of a supplier invoice request based on the invoicing relevant data that is transferred from a purchasing system. The operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a request to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected and is to be created through evaluated receipt settlement.

As shown in the Project Processing process component includes the Project business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that is to be attained in a specified time frame. For example the business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk.

The Project business object uses a Notify of Project to Time and Labor Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project operation . The operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation Out interface . The Notify of Project operation provides information to the Time and Labor Management process component about tasks and assigned employees in a project. The operation generates an Employee Time Confirmation View of Project Notification message .

A Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project operation receives the Employee Time Confirmation View of Project Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation In interface . The Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project operation updates an Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object based on changes to the Project business object in the Project Processing process component . The operation uses a Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project inbound process agent to update the Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object . The Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object represents a view of a project restricted to those project tasks for which employee times are confirmed.

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notify of Invoice operation informs accounting about the creation of invoices or credit memos. The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation informs accounting about the cancellation of invoices or credit memos. The operations and are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation generates an Invoice Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on invoice data received from the Customer Invoice Processing process component or a Supplier Invoice Processing process component. In some implementations the received data is first converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation is included in an Invoice Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Invoice Accounting In interface receives the Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message from the Customer Invoice Processing process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Customer Invoice Processing process component or a Supplier Invoice Processing process component. In some implementations the received data is converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The operation is included in a Sales And Purchasing Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Purchase Order operation notifies accounting that a purchase order has been created changed or cancelled. The operation generates a Sales And Purchasing Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Notification operation receives the Sales And Purchasing Accounting Notification message . The operation is included in a Sales And Purchasing Accounting In interface . The Create Accounting Notification operation creates an accounting notification based on order data received from customer complaint processing purchase order processing sales order processing service confirmation processing service order processing service request processing or goods and service acknowledgement. The operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales And Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component includes the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services or the return of goods.

The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object uses a Notify of Project Expense from Goods and Service Acknowledgement to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Expense operation . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification Out interface . The Notify of Project Expense operation notifies the Project Processing process component about a goods and service acknowledgement related to a project. The operation generates a Project Expense View Notification message .

A Maintain Project Expense View operation receives the Project Expense View Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification In interface . The Maintain Project Expense View operation creates or cancels a project expense. The operation uses a Maintain Project Expense View inbound process agent to update a Project Expense View business object . The Project Expense View business object represents a project management view of a project related expense resulting from a business transaction.

As shown in the Project Processing process component includes the Project business object a Project Baseline business object and a Project Snapshot business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that is to be attained in a specified time frame. For example the business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk. The Project Baseline business object represents the internally approved master plan between the project sponsors and the project lead. For example the master plan can cover the planned scope costs schedule and distribution of work within a project. The Project Snapshot business object represents a snapshot of a project that documents the state of a project.

The Project business object uses a Request Project Cost Estimate from Project to Costing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Project Cost Estimate operation . The Project Baseline business object uses a Request Project Cost Estimate from Project Baseline to Costing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Project Cost Estimate operation . The Project Snapshot business object uses a Request Project Cost Estimate from Project Snapshot to Costing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Project Cost Estimate operation . The Request Project Cost Estimate operation is included in a Project Costing Out interface . The Request Project Cost Estimate operation notifies the Costing process component about the creation or change of costing relevant project elements. The operation generates a Project Cost Estimate Request message .

A Maintain Project Cost Estimate operation receives the Project Cost Estimate Request message . The operation is included in a Project Costing In interface . The Maintain Project Cost Estimate operation generates or updates a Financial Accounting View of Project business object due to the generation of or change to a project and generates or changes a Project Cost Estimate business object if costing should be performed immediately. The operation uses a Maintain Project Cost Estimate and Financial Accounting View of Project inbound process agent to update the Project Cost Estimate business object and the Financial Accounting View of Project business object . The Project Cost Estimate business object represents a statement of the costs that are calculated for carrying out a project. In some implementations the statement can contain both an overall result of the cost estimate and details of individual cost items. The cost items can be derived from material input resource input external internal services and or costs relating to a trip. The Financial Accounting View of Project business object represents an accounting view of a project and its structure.

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes a Goods and Activity Confirmation business object . The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed inventory changes that occurred at a specific time.

The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Project Expense from Confirmation to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Expense operation . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification Out interface . The Notify of Project Expense operation notifies of a project expense. The operation generates a Project Expense View Notification message .

A Maintain Project Expense View operation receives the Project Expense View Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification In interface . The Maintain Project Expense View operation creates or cancels a project expense. The operation uses a Maintain Project Expense View inbound process agent to update the Project Expense View business object . The Project Expense View business object represents a project management view of a project related expense resulting from a business transaction.

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object . The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed inventory changes that occurred at a specific time.

The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation . The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation notifies the Accounting process component about inventory changes for physical goods and activity confirmations and to trigger a valuation of the relevant inventory changes and activities. The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation notifies the Accounting process component about a cancellation of inventory changes and activity confirmations sent earlier. The operations and are included in an Inventory And Activity Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation generates an Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on inventory data received from the Inventory Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component or a Production process component. In some implementations the received data can first be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation is included in an Inventory And Activity Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation generates an Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Inventory And Activity Accounting In interface receives the Inventory Change And Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message from the Inventory Processing process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Inventory Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component or a Production process component. In some implementations the received data can be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object . The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object represents a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company.

The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object uses an Issue Bill of Exchange Receivable to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke an Issue Bill of Exchange operation . The operation is included in a Bill of Exchange Receivable Issuing Output Out interface . The Issue Bill of Exchange operation requests the issuing of a bill of exchange. The operation generates a Form Bill of Exchange Receivable Issue Request message .

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Payment Allocation business object . The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated.

The Payment Allocation business object uses a Request Clearing Maintenance from Payment Allocation to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Clearing operation or a Request Clearing Cancellation operation . The Request Clearing operation requests the clearing of payments within the Due Item Processing process component . The Request Clearing Cancellation operation cancels a previously sent clearing request from the Due Item Processing process component by reference. The operations and are included in a Clearing Out interface . The Request Clearing operation generates a Clearing Request message .

A Create Clearing operation receives the message . The Create Clearing operation creates a clearing for business partner initiated payments. The Create Clearing operation is included in a Clearing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Clearing inbound process agent to update a Tax Due Payment business object . The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Request Clearing Cancellation operation generates a Clearing Cancellation Request message . A Cancel Clearing operation in the Clearing In interface receives the Clearing Cancellation Request message from the Payment Processing process component . The Cancel Clearing operation cancels a previously sent clearing request by reference. The operation uses the Maintain Clearing inbound process agent to update the Tax Due Payment business object .

The Create Clearing operation uses the Maintain Clearing inbound process agent to update a Due Payment business object . The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or a payment confirmation for trade receivables and payables.

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Confirm Clearing from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Clearing operation . The Confirm Clearing operation sends a confirmation to the Payment Processing process component for a clearing request. The operation is included in a Clearing Out interface . The Due Payment business object uses a Confirm Clearing from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Confirm Clearing operation . The Confirm Clearing operation generates a Clearing Confirmation message .

The Clearing Confirmation message is received in a Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation operation . The Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation operation confirms the execution or rejection of a sent clearing request. The operation is included in a Clearing In interface . The Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation operation uses a Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Payment Allocation business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Time and Labor Management and Goods and Service Acknowledgement 

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes the Employee Time Calendar business object . The Employee Time Calendar business object represents a read only calendar representation of time valuation results that are derived from the recorded times of an employee.

The Employee Time Calendar business object uses a Notify of internal Acknowledgement from Employee Time Confirmation to Goods and Service Acknowledgement outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of internal Acknowledgement operation or a Notify of internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation . The Notify of internal Acknowledgement operation notifies the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component of a service provided by an external employee. In some implementations this notification can be sent when an active employee time that contains information relevant for the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component is created changed or cancelled. The Notify of internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation notifies the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component of the cancellation of an externally provided service. For example this cancellation can be sent when an active employee time that contains information relevant for the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component is cancelled. The operations and are included in an Internal Acknowledgement Out interface . The Notify of internal Acknowledgement operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Request message .

A Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation receives the message . The Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation creates a goods and service acknowledgement. The Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation is included in an Internal Acknowledgement In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Goods and Service Acknowledgement based on Internal Acknowledgement inbound process agent to update the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services or the return of goods.

The Notify of internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation Request message . A Cancel Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation in the Internal Acknowledgement In interface receives the Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation Request message from the Time and Labor Management process component . The Cancel Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation cancels a goods and service acknowledgement. The operation uses the Maintain Goods and Service Acknowledgement based on Internal Acknowledgement inbound process agent to update the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object .

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify Customer of Customer Invoice outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation is included in an Invoicing Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation informs the recipient of the customer invoice about invoicing. The operation generates an Invoice Request message .

A Create Invoice operation receives the Invoice Request message . The operation is included in an Invoicing In interface . The Create Invoice operation creates a supplier invoice that corresponds to a customer invoice that contains claims or liabilities for delivered goods or rendered services. The operation uses a Create Supplier Invoice based on Invoice Request inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Project Expense from Supplier Invoice to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Expense operation . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification Out interface . The Notify of Project Expense operation notifies project processing about a supplier invoice related to a project. The operation generates a Project Expense View Notification message .

A Maintain Project Expense View operation receives the Project Expense View Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Expense Notification In interface . The Maintain Project Expense View operation creates or cancels a project expense. The operation uses a Maintain Project Expense View inbound process agent to update the Project Expense Review business object . The Project Expense Review business object represents a project management view of a project related expense resulting from a business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Request Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoice to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out operation . The operation is included in an Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out interface . The Request Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out operation requests the creation of a customer invoice based on the data from an invoice created by evaluated receipt settlement. The operation generates an Invoice Request message and a Form Invoice Request message . The Invoice Request message is a message type to enable form based output for an invoice request. The Form Invoice Request message is a request to create a customer invoice based on the data from an invoice created by evaluated receipt settlement.

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component receives information from a Processing at Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component receives information from a Processing at Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Due Item Processing and Due Item Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Dunning business object . The Dunning business object represents a reminder or demand from a company creditor to a business partner debtor to make a payment by a certain point in time.

The Dunning business object uses a Notify of Dunning to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Dunning operation . The operation is included in a Dunning Output Out interface . The Notify of Dunning operation notifies the business partner about outstanding payments. The operation generates a Form Dunning Notification message .

As shown in the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component includes the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services or the return of goods.

The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object uses a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation or a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation . The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation notifies the Accounting process component about the creation of a goods and service acknowledgement that is relevant for accounting. The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation notifies the Accounting process component about the cancellation of a goods and service acknowledgement that is relevant for accounting. The operations and are included in a Goods and Service Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation generates a Goods And Service Acknowledgement Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document based on goods movement or resource consumption data received from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . For example the received data can first be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The Create Accounting Document operation is included in a Goods and Service Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Goods and Service Acknowledgement inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to financial accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Goods and Service Accounting In interface receives the Goods And Service Acknowledgement Cancellation Accounting Notification message from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation cancels an existing accounting document based on cancellation data received from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . For example the received data can be converted into an accounting notification from which one or more reversal accounting documents are created according to the relevant sets of books. The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Goods and Service Acknowledgement inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

