---

title: Apparatus and method for controlling a compressor
abstract: A compressor comprises a casing having an inner surface surrounding a rotor assembly, the rotor assembly having a plurality of circumferentially spaced radially outwardly extending rotor blades, each blade having leading and trailing edges and a tip, the compressor further comprising at least one plasma actuator for suppressing rotating stall inception of the compressor, the at least one plasma actuator being mounted adjacent to the blade tips.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08096756&OS=08096756&RS=08096756
owner: Polyvalor, Limited Partnership
number: 08096756
owner_city: Montreal, Quebec
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20081030
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 034 839 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A COMPRESSOR filed on Mar. 7 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The technique described below generally relates to an apparatus and method for controlling a compressor of a gas turbine engine.

Engine surge is a major limiting factor in the operating envelope of aircraft gas turbine engines and is a concern in every new engine design. It can occur at critical operating regimes such as take off manoeuvres and engine acceleration. It is characterized by the asymmetric flow oscillations across the entire engine that lead to a sudden drop in engine power and engine damage the severity of which depends on the strength of the surge. Surge is a system instability associated with the interaction of the compressor with the combustor and turbine and is usually triggered by rotating stall. The severity of the rotating stall depends on the compressor. Rotating stall is a well known compressor aerodynamic instability that occurs as the mass flow through the compressor is decreased at a certain speed. It is characterized by the formation of a cell of axial velocity deficiency that rotates at a fraction of the compressor rotation speed and it usually results in a drop in compressor pressure rise. A common practice of incorporating a safety margin against rotating stall such as casing treatment or active control using moveable inlet guide vanes often prevents the compressor from operating at peak efficiency and peak pressure ratio. In another approach micro injectors can be used to inject low mass flow jets into the compressors of gas turbine engines however the risk clogging and mechanical complexity are serious obstacles to practical implementation. Therefore there is a need for an improved technique for suppressing rotating stall inception in a compressor of gas turbine engines.

In accordance with one aspect there is provided a compressor which comprises a casing having an inner surface surrounding a rotor assembly the rotor assembly having a plurality of circumferentially spaced radially outwardly extending rotor blades each blade having leading and trailing edges and a tip the compressor further comprising at least one plasma actuator for suppressing rotating stall inception of the compressor the at least one plasma actuator being mounted adjacent to the blade tips.

In accordance with another aspect there is a method provided for suppressing rotating stall inception of a compressor the compressor including a casing having an inner surface surrounding a rotor assembly the rotor assembly having a plurality of circumferentially spaced radially outwardly extending rotor blades each blade having leading and trailing edges and a tip the method comprising actuating at least one plasma actuator disposed circumferentially around the casing near the blade tips of the rotor assembly to induce axial flow acceleration within a tip clearance gap region of the rotor assembly.

In accordance with a further aspect there is a method for suppressing rotating stall inception of a compressor the compressor including a casing having an inner surface surrounding a rotor assembly the rotor assembly having a plurality of circumferentially spaced radially outwardly extending rotor blades each blade having leading and trailing edges and a tip the method comprising actuating independent adjacent plasma actuator sections around the casing near the blade tips of the rotor assembly to induce circumferentially varying axial flow acceleration within a tip clearance gap region of the rotor assembly thereby resulting in a circumferential perturbation in pressure rise around the compressor.

Further details of these and other aspects of the technique will be apparent from the detailed description and figures included below.

In two routes to rotating stall have been identified in an axial compressor a long length scale modal and short length scale spike stall inception. Modal stall inception as illustrated in is characterized by a long length scale modal disturbance of the axial mass flow velocity Vx. It is characterized by the evolution in tens of rotor revolutions of a small full span disturbance of circumferential wavelength on the order of the annulus into a full rotating stall cell and has been shown to occur at or slightly beyond the zero slope peak of the stagnation to static pressure rise characteristics speedline of the compressor . It has been understood and successfully modeled. The associated physics can essentially be described as a growth of disturbances in the compression system as the damping goes from positive negative speedline slope to negative positive speedline slope . The relatively slow growth rate and initial low amplitude of the modal disturbance means that its individual spatial circumferential harmonic can be by suppressed separately with low power actuation that introduces corresponding low amplitude phase shifted perturbations. This is the basis of previous successful active control of modal stall inception using movable inlet guide vanes tip jet injection and full span jet injection. The effectiveness of the actuators depends on how well they can produce the circumferential sinusoidal perturbation associated with each controlled harmonic the amplitude of the perturbation they can produce and their bandwidth since the induced perturbations must rotate with the corresponding modal disturbance harmonics.

However as illustrated in many modern compressors stall at a negative slope of the speedline thus even before reaching the peak pressure rise associated with modal stall inception instead exhibiting spike stall inception as characterized by a short length scale spike disturbance of the axial mass flow velocity Vx. This other type of stall inception starts with the appearance of a sharp local disturbance spike at the rotor tip only two to three blade passages in width which grows into a fully developed rotating stall cell within roughly three rotor revolutions. The lack of understanding of spike stall inception the localized nature of the disturbance and short time scales have traditionally made practical detection and active suppression very hard to achieve. A recent numerical study proposed a plausible mechanism to explain short length scale rotating stall inception based in tip clearance flow.

As illustrated in and tip clearance flow is the flow through the clearance between the rotor blade tip and compressor casing driven by the pressure difference across the rotor blade blade loading . Due to the shear losses within and at the exit of the tip clearance this fluid which comes out almost normal to the blade camber has high entropy. It then encounters the low entropy incoming flow to form an interface that is defined by a region of high entropy gradient. The high loss low Pt tip clearance fluid also forms a region of low streamwise velocity that is equivalent to an aerodynamic blockage which reduces the pressure rise across the blade passage. The position of the incoming tip clearance flow interface results from a balance between the momentum of the incoming flow and that of the tip clearance flow . As the flow coefficient decreases the axial momentum of the incoming flow reduces. At the same time the blade loading and thus the tip clearance flow momentum increases resulting in a movement of the interface toward the rotor leading edge plane and the blockage in the tip region increases.

It is understood that two threshold flow events and corresponding criteria associated with tip clearance flow must be simultaneously present for spike disturbances to form and thus spike stall inception to occur. As illustrated in and numeral indicates the edge of the tip clearance flow region these are 

The important point to note is that the above criteria for spike stall inception can be evaluated with single blade passage computations. The converged flow solution limit equilibrium flow limit in single passage simulations due to the proposed criteria does indeed lead in equivalent multiple blade passage simulations to the formation and growth of spike disturbances as shown in for a time instant during this process. The tip clearance fluid spillage can be observed in area S and the backflow can be observed in area B. The flow behavior in has been experimentally measured on three low speed single stage axial compressors and a computational study for a transonic rotor also support the proposed spike formation criteria. Two important implications for the prediction and suppression of spike stall inception are 

The first statement means that low cost single blade passage CFD simulations could be used to evaluate and optimize the effectiveness of flow control strategies for suppressing spike stall inception before experiments are done. The second statement implies that relatively low power actuation aimed exclusively at the rotor tip region should be sufficient in suppressing spike stall inception by providing the extra incoming flow momentum needed to at least delay the leading edge spillage of the tip clearance flow spike stall criterion .

Single dielectric barrier discharge SDBD plasma actuators may be advantageously used to suppress spike rotating stall inception. As shown in an SDBD actuator essentially consists of two offset thin electrodes and one of which is exposed to the air and the other encapsulated in a dielectric material . When an AC voltage for example of several kilovolts at a frequency for example of several kilohertz is applied weakly ionized gases plasma are cyclically generated over the encapsulated hidden electrode . This plasma generation process does not involve any significant heating of the air and is sustainable at atmospheric pressure. The ionized air is subjected to an electric force in the presence of the electric field created by the electrodes. The result is an induced body force on the rest of the air in this region which creates a very thin jet adjacent to the surface. The SDBD actuators and the plasma generation and momentum induction process during the voltage input cycle are known in the prior art.

Applications of plasma actuators for flow control have been growing in the past few years. These actuators have been tested in flows with Reynolds numbers up to the 10range to suppress boundary layer separation on airfoils and diffuser walls and to alleviate turbine aerodynamic losses using actuators mounted on the blade tip to effectively reduce the tip clearance gap. Plasma actuators have also been applied at much higher flow velocity to influence boundary layer instabilities on a sharp cone at Mach 3.5.

Alternatively the SDBD plasma actuators may be replaced with dielectric barrier discharge DBD plasma actuators which are similar to SDBD plasma actuators but with more than one dielectric barrier. Also alternatively surface corona discharge plasma actuators as shown in may be used in place of SDBD plasma actuators. Electrode as a cathode has a diameter greater than electrode as an anode.

Based on the flow physics associated with rotating stall inception plasma actuators may be used on the casing to suppress stall inception. and show the proposed layout according to one embodiment which consists of two stationary thin annular full circumference electrodes with the dielectric material mounted on a casing near the rotor. The first application would be to suppress spike stall inception as depicted in and . The increase in axial velocity Vx induced by the plasma actuator implies added momentum to the incoming flow in the tip region. Since the trajectory of the interface between the incoming and tip clearance flows is determined by the balance between their momentums as explained for the interface in the proposed actuation should move this interface downstream of the leading edge plane as shown by broken line and thus suppress spillage of tip clearance flow below the leading edge blade tip spike criterion . In arrows in solid lines show the tip clearance flow when the actuation is absent and arrows in broken lines show the tip clearance flow when the induced axial flow acceleration Vx from plasma actuation is present. Moreover there may also be a positive effect on tip clearance backflow below the trailing edge blade tip spike criterion . According to the projected effect on the velocity triangles depicted in it is noted that the effect of actuation should be kept within the tip clearance flow region so as not to reduce the tip incidence and thus tip blade loading which could negatively affect the stage pressure rise. Furthermore if the proposed casing plasma actuator can induce a noticeable effect on the pressure rise characteristics modifications can be proposed for its use to also suppress modal stall inception.

The time averaged spatial body force distribution approach provides the most effective modelling of plasma actuation for flow control in complex internal flow problems as it captures the net spatial effect of the actuation on the flow near surface boundaries without adding much computational cost. A proposed approach consists of using a more accurate representative spatial body force distribution and scaling it to assess the effectiveness of plasma actuation with respect to total induced body force rather than input voltage and frequency starting from the body force level measured for conventional SDBD plasma actuators.

Among the plasma actuators models of average complexity capable of producing a body force distribution one gives the spatial body force distribution that most resembles those simulated with the most sophisticated models. This model was thus used to obtain the representative time averaged spatial body force distribution. The associated equations for the electrical potential and charge distributions were discretized in cell centered form in cylindrical coordinates. They are solved on a fine mesh for an annular plasma actuator on a surface with the casing radius of the compressor geometry to be simulated. Two empirical parameters are needed by the model the Debye length and the maximum charge density. Using the model s suggested Debye length of 0.001 m the maximum charge density is obtained by calibrating the model so that it gives a total time averaged streamwise body force for a similar actuator with a similar input voltage. This value comes out to be about 0.004 C m which is in the range of values obtained from simulations with a more sophisticated model. A representative SDBD plasma actuator is then chosen. As shown in it is composed of two 0.1 mm thick electrodes 5 mm wide for the exposed electrode and 10 mm wide for the encapsulated electrode separated by a Kapton dielectric thickness of 0.34 mm and an axial gap of 0.05 mm. shows the electric potential field solved with the model which is used with the computed spatial charge distribution not shown to give the spatial body force magnitude distribution and corresponding body force vectors. These two representations of the spatial body force distribution are presented in and for the area delimited by the dashed lines in

According to the chosen model this actuator should induce a time averaged total axial body force of about 15 mN m milli Newtons per meter of actuator length in the circumferential direction for an input sinusoidal voltage amplitude of 10 kV which is in the range of conventional SDBD plasma. With the chosen thickness of Kapton dielectric the voltage amplitude could in theory be increased by increasing the voltage and varying the input frequency. This representative body force distribution is thus scaled to obtain the total time averaged induced axial body forces of 15 76 153 and 305 mN m also referred to in this work as actuator strength .

The CFD code used for this embodiment is UNSTREST a cell centered 3 D RANS time accurate turbomachinery CFD code with a mixing length turbulence model. Since the body force distribution is resolved on a finer mesh than the CFD mesh the computed spatial body force distribution is transferred to the CFD mesh by superposing the two grids in the axial radial plane according to the procedure illustrated in . Each larger cell of the CFD grid is placed on top of the body force grid and the body force associated with the CFD cell is the sum of those from the fine mesh cells it incorporates modulated by the percentage of the area of each small cell that lies in the CFD cell. The final body force per unit depth in the circumferential direction thus obtained is multiplied by the effective depth of each cylindrical cell volume side area to obtain the total body force for each CFD control volume.

The rotor geometry on which to evaluate the proposed concept is the ERotor B the first rotor of a GE low speed constant radii four stage research compressor with inlet guide vanes. This compressor has been shown experimentally to stall via spikes originating in the first rotor. This rotor geometry is representative of modern subsonic compressor blading. It has 54 blades with a mid span solidity of 1.16. The hub to tip ratio is 0.85 with a constant casing radius of 762 mm. The design speed is 860 rpm giving a tip Mach number of 0.2 and the Reynolds number based on tip chord is on the order of 300 000. This geometry can also be simulated at 2 150 rpm for a tip Mach number of 0.5. This is the rotor geometry used in the prior art to elucidate the mechanism of spike formation.

Constant inlet stagnation pressure and temperature as well as a radial distribution of the swirl angle are prescribed at the inlet. The pitch averaged swirl angle distribution is obtained from the exit flow angle of the inlet guide vanes upstream of this rotor. The exit boundary conditions consist of a constant tip static pressure and radial equilibrium. Accordingly an inlet duct axial length of one blade pitch is provided to let circumferential potential disturbances on the length scale of the blade pitch decay to zero at the inlet plane. An exit duct of six blade pitches in axial length is provided to insure that any axially reversed flow at the trailing edge casing due to tip clearance backflow as depicted in gets fully mixed out before reaching the exit plane. The set exit static pressure boundary condition also implies that the simulations can not capture stable points which lie at a lower mass flow that the point of exit static pressure turnover zero slope peak in stagnation to static pressure rise characteristics associated with modal stall inception .

At the first rotor LE on the Ecompressor even at the low design speed the Reynolds number should already be on the order of the transition value for clean flow. Combined with the presence of the upstream inlet guide vanes a turbulent casing boundary layer can safely be assumed at the actuator location. Thus a turbulent casing boundary layer is implemented in the simulations.

For each compressor speed under study the first step of the computational simulation is to find the equilibrium flow converged solution limit of the rotor without actuation and insure that it is the predicted spike stall inception point through the fulfilment of the two criteria for spike formation depicted in and . Starting from a converged solution at high flow coefficient low pressure rise the exit tip pressure is increased to obtain a new equilibrium converged flow solution in time accurate mode . This exit tip pressure is increased incrementally until an equilibrium flow solution no longer exists. This last increment is reduced to get the last converged flow solution close to the equilibrium flow limit.

For the simulation with plasma actuation the optimum actuator location may be near the rotor leading edge according to one embodiment. Thus the nominal actuator location is set at for example 7 of axial chord upstream of the tip leading edge for which the body force distribution is shown in . The actuator location is defined here by the axial position of the axial mid gap between the two electrodes. The main intended effect of the actuator location at the leading edge is to move the incoming tip clearance flow interface downstream back into the blade passage and thus delay the onset of leading edge tip clearance flow spillage spike criterion . In addition the effect of trailing edge actuation will also be verified with the actuator placed inside the blade passage at 7 axial chord upstream of the rotor trailing edge according to another embodiment. The projected effect is to delay the onset of backflow below the blade tip at the trailing edge spike criterion .

Simulations with plasma actuation are first carried out at design speed 860 rpm with a tip Mach number of 0.2. At the exit pressure corresponding to last stable point of the reference no actuation case actuation with induced time averaged total axial body forces of 15 76 and 153 mN m are applied at the actuator location near the leading edge to assess its effects on the two spike stall criteria and pressure rise characteristics. Subsequently the most effective actuator strength is applied to the location near the trailing edge for comparison. An optimum actuator location is chosen and the exit static pressure is increased to extend the speedline and evaluate how far the predicted stalled point can be delayed.

Thereafter the above simulations are performed for the same compressor at 2.5 times the design speed for a tip Mach number of 0.5. The goal is to assess the change of actuation effectiveness to get a better idea of the actuation requirements for more realistic compressor speeds. In this higher speed case the tip clearance has to be slightly reduced from 1.8 to 1.5 of chord to get the spike formation criteria to occur prior to the exit static pressure turnover zero slope peak of stagnation to static speedline and thus be captured by the present simulations. Only the optimum actuator location is simulated with actuator strengths of 76 153 and 305 mN m.

The results from the CFD simulations are presented in though in a common form. Each of and shows the compressor stagnation to static pressure rise characteristic speedline from 25 axial chord upstream of the rotor LE plane upstream of the plasma actuator to 6 axial chord downstream of the rotor TE plane. The rotor tip circumferential velocity U is used as the reference speed for the pressure rise and flow coefficients. The symbols and names associated with the points are consistent throughout all the figures. The number in each point name corresponds to a particular exit tip static pressure setting and the remaining suffix is explained in the legend. Each of and shows the entropy contour at the blade tip radial plane for selected points to track the incoming tip clearance flow interface trajectory. This interface is seen as a region of high entropy gradient see between the low entropy incoming and high entropy tip clearance fluids. The intersection of this interface with the blade tip LE pressure side marks the onset of tip clearance flow spillage below the LE blade tip spike formation criterion . Finally each of and gives the span wise distribution of non dimensional pitch averaged mass flow essentially a pitch averaged flow coefficient involving also density at the rotor trailing edge plane. The value of this parameter at the blade tip is marked with the symbol associated with each point. A value of zero at the tip intersection with the vertical line marks the onset of backflow below the TE blade tip spike formation criterion . A negative value indicates TE backflow.

As expected applying the same actuation strength of 153 mN m near the trailing edge point does very little to the incoming leading edge interface and solely increases tip trailing edge mass flow. The associated reduction in tip blockage is responsible for an increase in pressure rise of about 2.8 . However applying the same actuation at the leading edge point has about the same effect at the trailing edge while also moving the incoming tip clearance flow interface downstream to a position near that corresponding the low loading point as well as giving a superior pressure rise increase. This indicates that the actuator location near the leading edge is more optimal.

With 153 mN m actuation near the leading edge the exit pressure is increased beyond the nominal stall value associated with points and to obtain equilibrium flow solution at points and by delaying the onset of the two spike formation threshold events as shown and . As the flow is reduced from point to the incoming tip clearance flow interface moves toward the leading edge and the trailing edge tip mass flow moves toward zero as expected and spike stall inception should eventually occur. However point which is at 6.7 below the nominal stall mass flow point does not represent a spike formation point but is an artificial limit due to fact that the exit static boundary conditions used in this CFD code cannot capture converged solutions much past the point with exit static pressure turnover around point in this case . In this case the static pressure variation along the long downstream duct allowed for the simulations to get converged solutions slightly past the zero slope peak. 

The above results show that even at the optimum location and for a low compressor tip speed of Mach 0.2 actuator strengths that are several times above those of conventional plasma actuator strength may be needed to have a significant impact on suppressing spike stall inception and a positive impact on pressure rise

Actuation at 7 axial chord upstream of the leading edge is then simulated with actuator strengths of 76 153 and 305 mN m this time at an exit pressure corresponding to the stalled points and . The actuator strength of 76 mN m result not shown could not prevent stall. Compared to the low speed case point shows that the 153 mN m actuation point has a significant reduction in effectiveness in terms of pressure rise increase only about 1 1.5 and of the incoming tip clearance flow interface and trailing edge blade tip mass flow. A doubling of the actuation strength to 305 mN m point is required to achieve similar but still lower effectiveness than achieved with 153 mN m at the lower speed case. With this actuation the exit pressure can be increased to further extend the speedline to point and beyond as shown by the remaining margin in terms of the spike formation criteria assessment in and at point .

Although it needs to be confirmed with further studies these preliminary results suggest that for increasing rotor speed the required actuation strength needs to be multiplied roughly by about the same ratio as the rotor speed.

The results from the simulations carried out according to the above embodiments have important practical implications in term of the application of the proposed plasma actuation concept for stall suppression in aircraft gas turbine engines.

First the results indicate that time averaged axial induced body forces on the order of 10N m will be required to achieve the desired effects of stall margin improvement as well as pressure rise increase especially at realistic compressor speeds. Although this is an order of magnitude higher than the actuation strength of traditional SDBD plasma actuators based on what has been published in the literature these body forces levels can be achieved in principle by increasing the applied voltage and frequency beyond the traditional range of 1 10 kV amplitude and 1 10 kHz frequency and by modifications to the actuator geometry dielectric material and the shape of the input signal.

Second although the results point to the leading edge region as the best location for a casing plasma actuator the exact position may depend on the compressor and CFD simulations may provide an inexpensive tool to find it. Based on the physics one can deduce that there should be an optimum actuator location with respect to the leading edge. If it is placed too far upstream of the leading edge the flow acceleration effect at the leading edge plane is reduced. Moreover the increase in radial extent of the flow acceleration region will reduce tip incidence and likely the tip blade loading. Although it is conceivable that the resulting reduced momentum of the tip clearance flow would be beneficial in terms of delaying the spike formation criteria and thus delay the stall point the reduction in pressure rise may not be desirable and may neutralize one major advantage that this type of actuation has over casing treatment i.e. avoid the trade off between performance and stability. On the other hand while placing the actuator downstream of the leading edge would insure that the actuation does not affect the blade tip incidence the exposed electrode may be damaged should the rotor tip rub the casing which could likely happen over the operational life of the engine. Moreover the influence of the actuation on the incoming leading edge interface diminishes with increasing actuator distance downstream of the leading edge.

Third although suppressed in one rotor of a multi stage compressor spike disturbances may occur in another rotor at a lower flow coefficient. Thus there may be a need to apply this concept to multiple rotors in a multi stage compressor. In this case power consumption is one consideration. For the proposed plasma actuation the power imparted to the flow for the full annulus computed from the induced body force and the velocity integrated over all cells in the CFD domain is on the order of 10 W for 153 mN m actuation strength at the design rotor tip speed of Mach 0.2 and 45 W for 305 mN m actuation at a rotor tip speed of Mach 0.5. Even if one were to account for the sources of loss associated with plasma actuators the required power levels would still be several orders of magnitude below that needed to drive a compressor. In addition should power requirements become a concern at higher speeds one solution would be to apply an optimized on off i.e. intermittent duty cycle to the input so as to excite the turbulent flow structures in the casing boundary layer to obtain momentum transfer from the outer higher velocity region of the boundary layer rather than from the plasma actuator alone. Alternatively past successful suppression of spike stall inception using only a few discrete micro air injectors around the annulus and directed at the blade tip region implies that a few discrete plasma actuators of limited circumferential extent placed around the annulus and operating in continuous non pulsed mode may be able to delay spike stall inception while consuming less power than a full annular plasma actuator. Such an example is illustrated in wherein the plasma actuator comprises a plurality of discrete independent plasma actuator sections of limited circumferential extent provided discontinuously around the casing inner surface in the circumferential direction . Another consideration is geometrical constraint. Due to the limited distance between blade rows one can not use multiple actuators in series which further highlights the importance of fabricating actuators with high induced body forces.

Last but not least it is noted that modal stall inception will eventually occur once spike stall inception is suppressed and the extended speedline reaches the zero slope peak as shown for the 153 mN m actuation case in . Thus a proposed plasma actuation scheme may need to be able to suppress modal stall inception as well. As mentioned earlier the simulated effects of the proposed plasma actuation on the speedline opens the door for its use to suppress modal stall inception. Indeed the observed increase in pressure rise on the order of 5 is in line with that of the jet actuators successfully used in experiments to suppress modal stall inception. The simulations results also indicate that if needed this value can be enhanced with increased actuator strength. As shown in the proposed actuator can be spilt into multiple independent adjacent sections i.e. discrete actuators of equal circumferential extent to be able to introduce circumferential perturbations in pressure rise.

The introduction of circumferential perturbations in pressure rise to suppress modal stall inception can be achieved by a plurality of discrete actuators of any type which add momentum to the airflow at the blade tips including mechanical actuators which inject airflows. However since SDBD plasma actuators are relatively simple the number of circumferentially adjacent sections can be made high enough such as 8 to 16 or even more discrete actuators depending on the particular engine to produce purer sinusoidal circumferential perturbations and up to higher spatial harmonics to control higher modes that usually grow at lower flow coefficients and thus obtain more stall margin than possible with a limited number of conventional discrete mechanical actuators.

At the same time these plasma actuator sections acting in unison may be used as a single plasma actuator as shown in to suppress spike stall inception. Another advantage of plasma actuators for modal stall suppression is that being electrical devices they should have higher bandwidths than mechanical actuators.

A concept for the suppression of spike stall inception with SDBD plasma actuators is therefore provided based on the above computational simulation. It comprises placing a circumferential plasma actuator on the casing near the compressor rotor to induce axial flow acceleration within the tip clearance gap region to suppress the tip clearance flow features responsible for spike formation and short length scale rotating stall inception. In addition the plasma actuation alters the pressure rise enough through tip blockage reduction to be used for suppression of modal stall inception. The concept may increase stall margin without affecting the performance of the compressor. Although the required total induced body force especially for the higher subsonic speeds is an order of magnitude higher than that the traditional plasma actuator in the prior art it may not be beyond what can be achieved with improved actuator design and input. The optimum location of the actuator should be very close to the leading edge and should be able to suppress the two criteria for spike stall inception with minimal power consumption. At the same time limiting the actuation region to within the tip clearance gap should result in an increase of compressor pressure rise thus not only improving performance but allow a modification of the actuator to suppress modal stall inception as well.

This concept shows very high potential for significantly improving compressor stall margin and performance with a relatively simple actuator with no moving parts. There are ongoing improvements in plasma actuator design to increase robustness and actuation strength. Furthermore lighter and more powerful power generators for plasma actuators aimed at aerospace applications are becoming commercially available. In general any plasma actuator which adds momentum to the flow near the surface of the actuators can be employed in this concept.

The above description is meant to be exemplary only and one skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made to the embodiments described without departing from the scope of the invention disclosed. For example the axial location of the plasma actuator described in the above embodiment is axially upstream of the leading edges of the blade tips of the rotor assembly advantageously avoiding damage thereto caused by blade tip rubbing against the compressor casing. However in other embodiments it may be desirable to dispose the plasma actuator substantially coincident with the vertical plane defined by the leading edges of the blade tips of the rotor assembly or desirable to dispose the plasma actuator axially downstream of the leading edges of the blade tips and upstream of the trailing edges of the blade tips of the rotor assembly. Still other modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of a review of this disclosure and such modifications are intended to fall within the appended claims.

