---

title: Hybrid water cannon
abstract: A hybrid water cannon that can be configured in either a recoil mode or recoilless mode. A first barrel is attached to a breech block. Either a second barrel or breech plug is also attached to the breech block on a side opposite the first barrel. With the breech plug attached, the water cannon is in a recoil mode. With the second barrel attached, the water cannon is in a recoilless mode. A chamber containing a propellant charge is in communication with both the first and second barrels. Upon ignition, the propellant charge pushes a charge of water from both barrels simultaneously and in opposite directions. The discharge from the first barrel is used to disable the target ordnance. The discharge from the second barrel counters the recoil. The propellant charge is ignited using an ignition charge in a port intersecting the chamber at an angle other than 90 degrees.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07997179&OS=07997179&RS=07997179
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07997179
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080401
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or thereof.

The present invention is directed to liquid disruptors and explosive disarming. In particular the present invention relates to water cannons.

Disruptors are used to disarm or to disable explosive devices. In general the disrupter is deployed remotely from an explosive device and uses a projectile to disable the explosive device without initiating the explosive material contained in the device. One type of disruptor is a water cannon which uses water as the projectile. In a water cannon a charge of water is discharged from the cannon under high pressure or velocity using for example a propellant charge contained in the water cannon. The propellant charge upon initiation expands through the barrel of the water cannon driving a plunger or similar assembly that pushes the charge of water contained in the barrel out through the end of the barrel rupturing a membrane used to close the end of the barrel to retain the charge of water within the barrel. Water cannons produce a charge of water moving at very high velocity high enough to disrupt an explosive device. This discharge of water however produces an equally forceful and violent recoil in the water cannon necessitating a mounting structure of sufficient size and strength to compensate for this recoil. Such mounting structures eliminate the use of conventional water cannon as a tripod mounted device or small robotic platform held device.

Attempts have been made to reduce the recoil associated with water cannon. The desire to reduce recoil however is not limited to water cannons and can be found in other types of guns. For example an aeroplane gun in a recoilless arrangement uses the powder gases in the gun to blow the barrel of the gun up through the top of the sleeve. The gun is expended along with the projectile at each shot. By this arrangement of having the gun and the projectile fly in opposite directions comparatively small shock will be thrown on the framework of the aeroplane. Therefore a single charge is used to produce substantially simultaneous and opposite forces to both launch a projectile and minimize the recoil associated with that launch. This device is widely known as the Davis gun and the term Davis gun is often used to refer generally to any recoilless gun arrangement.

In another example a device for firing a projectile for de arming purposes includes a chamber in communication with the barrel. The chamber has a rear outlet through which material in use is ejected so as to counteract the recoil caused by firing the projectile. The material is expelled from the chamber through the outlet as a result of the explosion caused by the detonation of the charge. The chamber includes a piston interposed between the recoil absorbing material and each port. Both the material discharged rearwardly and the projectile can be water. When water is fired the firing of the device ejects a single pulse of water followed by the projectile. The gas that expels the counteracting material is initially directed forwarded and has to be re routed rearwardly to the chamber to expel the material. Therefore an arrangement of passages to redirect the gas is required. Moreover a portion of the force of the gas will be lost as its direction is reversed.

Similarly another de armer uses a single charge to move plugs to discharge water simultaneously in different directions. The igniter is formed integral with the rear discharge system which is axially disposed around the igniter. The force from the explosion moves forward initially and is then directed to the rear through one or more ports. The arrangements of these water cannons provide for water charges that are arranged as annular rings around the main barrel or the igniter. The gas from the propellant charge moves through or toward the main barrel initially and a portion of the expanding gases are redirected through channels to a rearward direction.

The present invention is directed to a hybrid water cannon that can be interchangeably operated in either a recoil mode or a recoilless mode. In general the water cannon uses a charge of an energetic material to drive a plug and a charge of water through a barrel. In the recoilless mode the water cannon is arranged symmetrically with two barrels extending in opposite directions from a single chamber or breech ring. A charge of energetic material simultaneously drives water charges through the two barrels creating substantially equal and opposing forces that cancel each other and eliminate recoil. In the recoil mode one of the barrels is removed and a breech plug is inserted. In addition the angle of the black powder port in the chamber is not perpendicular to the main charge but is at some angle other than 90 degrees.

Exemplary embodiments of water cannon in accordance with the present invention include arrangements with and without recoil. More particularly the water cannon are hybrid water cannon or a water cannon system capable of being arranged with or without recoil. Referring initially to an exemplary embodiment of a water cannon in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. As illustrated the water cannon is arranged in a recoil mode. The water cannon includes a breech block . The breech block includes handle for holding and transporting the water cannon. In one embodiment the water cannon also includes a first barrel attached to the breech block and extending from the breech block in a first direction. Suitable lengths for the first barrel are from about 17 inches up to about 20 inches. Attached to one end of the first barrel opposite the breech block is a first nozzle . The nozzle constricts the ejecting water and forms a cohesive water jet used for disruption of the intended target or targets. Also in communication with the breech block opposite the first barrel is a breech plug . Suitable materials for the breech block breech plug barrels and nozzles include but are not limited to 4340 steel. In accordance with this embodiment the water cannon has an overall length of about 25 to about 27 inches.

Referring to the first barrel includes a first cylindrical bore running the length of the barrel. This first cylindrical bore includes a first charge of water which is the projectile that the water cannon uses to disable a bomb or ordnance. The water cannon includes a chamber in communication with the first cylindrical bore. The chamber is sized to hold the desired amount of energetic material to expel the first charge of water from the first barrel upon ignition. In one embodiment the charge of energetic material contained within the chamber is arranged as one or more powder bags. Suitable arrangements of powder bags and energetic materials include but are not limited to aluminum mylar bags containing gunpowder. The chamber can be disposed in the breech block the first barrel or both the first barrel and the breech plug . As illustrated the chamber is a portion of the first barrel and that portion is inserted within the breech block .

Also disposed within the first cylindrical bore is pusher plug assembly . The pusher plug assembly is disposed within the first cylindrical bore between the chamber and the first charge of water . Upon ignition of the energetic materials the pusher plug assembly is pushed along the length of the first barrel to expel the first charge of water from the end of the first barrel through the first nozzle . The pusher plug assembly is generally cylindrical in shape to fit the contours of the first cylindrical bore and includes an O ring to make an adequate seal between the walls of the first cylindrical bore and the pusher plug assembly. This seal is adequate to prevent the first charge of water from leaking past the pusher plug assembly. The pusher plug deformation upon ignition prevents expanding gases from the ignition of the energetic material from by passing the pusher plug assembly. Suitable materials for the pusher plug assembly include but are not limited to high elongation high density polyethylene HDPE . The pusher plug has concave elements on the leading and trailing faces that maximize the water volume and chamber volume providing good sealing and obturation and preventing plug breakup.

In order to hold the first charge of water within the first barrel a first diaphragm is provided between the first barrel and the first nozzle . Suitable materials for the first diaphragm include but are not limited to elastomers such as rubber. The first diaphragm is ruptured by the first charge of water as that charge of water is expelled from the first barrel.

Extending through the breech block from the chamber in a direction opposite the first direction is a passage . The passage extends through the breech block to an opening in the breech block opposite the first barrel . Therefore the opening is in communication with the chamber and upon ignition of the energetic material in the chamber the expanding ignition gases are expelled simultaneously and directly in opposite directions through the first barrel and through the passage to the opening. The flow of expanding ignition gases do not have to be redirected to routed through narrow passages. The breach plug is disposed within the opening to prevent the expanding ignition gases from moving through the passage and escaping through the opening. As arranged the water cannon upon ignition of the energetic charges expels the first charge of water from the first barrel producing a recoil. Therefore in this embodiment the water cannon is supported in a structure sufficient to compensate for that recoil.

In order to provide for the ignition of the energetic materials in the chamber the water cannon includes an ignition charge port disposed in the breech block . In one embodiment the ignition charge port is generally cylindrical in shape and intersects the chamber opposite the pusher plug assembly . The ignition charge port includes an ignition charge that is used to ignite the main propellant charge of energetic material within the chamber. Suitable ignition charges include black powder. In one embodiment the ignition charge port intersects the chamber at an angle other than 90 degrees. In particular the central axis of the generally cylindrical ignition charge port intersects the first central axis of the generally cylindrical chamber which in one embodiment is the central axis of the first cylindrical bore of the first barrel at an angle other than 90 degrees. These angles reduce the stress concentration in the chamber. In one embodiment the ignition charge port includes a threaded breach cap or closure .

In one embodiment in order to provide for the assembly disassembly cleaning and configuring of the water cannon the breech plug first barrel and first nozzle are all releasably attached to each other. In one embodiment a two part mechanical fastener is disposed between the opening in the breech block and the breech plug. A first part of the two part mechanical fastener for example a threaded female fitting is disposed in the opening and the corresponding second part of the two part mechanical fastener the male threads are disposed on the breech plug. Similarly a two part mechanical fastener is provided between the first barrel and the breech block. The breech block contains the first part of the two part mechanical fastener for example a threaded female fitting and the first barrel contains the corresponding second part a male thread. A two part mechanical fastener is provided between the first nozzle and the first barrel. The first barrel includes the first part of the two part mechanical fastener for example a threaded female fitting and the first nozzle contains the corresponding second part a male thread.

In order to assemble the embodiment of the water cannon shown in the pusher plug assembly is placed in the first cylindrical bore at the desired position and the first charge of water is added. The first diaphragm is added to the end of the first barrel and the first nozzle is threaded onto the end of the first barrel to hold the diaphragm in place. The charge of energetic material is then added to the other end of the first barrel and the first barrel is threaded onto the breech block . The breech plug is threaded into the opening until fully sealed. The ignition material is then added to the ignition charge port of the breech block.

Referring to another exemplary embodiment of a water cannon in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. As illustrated this embodiment is a recoilless arrangement of the water cannon. In one embodiment the recoilless arrangement is a reconfiguration of the recoil arrangement and therefore many of the same members are used in both arrangements as indicated by the same reference numerals. In this embodiment the water cannon includes a second barrel extending from the breech block in a second direction opposite the first direction of the first barrel . Attached to one end of the second barrel opposite the end attached to the breech block is a second nozzle . The overall length of the recoilless arrangement of the water cannon is from about 40 to about 42 inches.

Referring to the second barrel includes a second cylindrical bore that contains a second charge of water . The second cylindrical bore includes a second central axis that is collinear with the first central axis of the first barrel . Therefore the first and second barrels and in particular the central bores of these barrels are aligned in opposite directions. In one embodiment a second pusher plug assembly is provided in the second barrel. Suitable materials and arrangements for the second pusher plug assembly are the same as for the first pusher plug assembly in the first barrel. In addition the second pusher plug assembly is disposed at a same distance along the second barrel as the first pusher plug assembly is disposed along the first barrel taking into account the length or distance of the first barrel occupied by the chamber . In one embodiment the second barrel is releasably attached to the breech block . In another embodiment the second barrel is disposed within the opening of the breech block and is in communication with the passage in the breech block. Therefore the chamber is in communication with the first and second cylindrical bores and the charge of energetic material upon ignition simultaneously expels the first and second charges of water from the first and second barrels. A two part mechanical fastener is provided between the second nozzle and the second barrel . The second barrel includes the first part of the two part mechanical fastener for example a threaded female fitting and the second nozzle contains the corresponding second part a male thread.

In one embodiment the second barrel is releasably attached to the opening of the breech block by a two part mechanical fastener in an exemplary embodiment a threaded fastener. This two part fastener can be the same two part mechanical fastener that is used to attach the breech plug to the opening. Therefore the opening contains the first part female threads of the two part mechanical fastener and both the breech plug and the second barrel contain corresponding second parts male threads of the mechanical fastener. Using this arrangement the breech plug and the second barrel can be interchangeably attached to the opening. Therefore the water cannon can be part of a water cannon system that includes the first barrel the breech block the breech plug and the second barrel. The interchangeability of the breech plug and the second barrel give the water cannon system to ability to be configured as either a recoil water cannon or a recoilless water cannon.

The simultaneous discharge of the first and second charges of water in opposite directions provides the force balance to make the water cannon recoilless. Therefore the sizes of the first and second charges of water are preferably substantially the same. In one embodiment this is accomplished by providing that the length of the first barrel first length is substantially the same as the length of the second barrel second length . In this embodiment the chamber is disposed within the breech block . Alternatively the length of the first barrel is greater than the length of the second barrel. In one embodiment the length of the first barrel is about 20 inches and the length of the second barrel is about 17 inches. In this embodiment the chamber is disposed in the first barrel. The sizes of the first and second charges of water are equalized using the placement of the pusher plug assembly within the first barrel. Therefore the first and second pusher plug assemblies are placed within the first and second cylindrical bores at a location that provides for a chamber and that creates a first charge of water the same volume as the second charge of water.

In order to assemble the embodiment of the water cannon shown in the first pusher plug assembly is placed in the first cylindrical bore as the desired position and the first charge of water is added. The first diaphragm is added to the end of the first barrel and the first nozzle is threaded onto the end of the first barrel to hold the diaphragm in place. The charge of energetic material is then added to the other end of the first barrel and the first barrel is threaded onto the breech block . A second pusher plug assembly is inserted into the second barrel . The second barrel is then filled with the second charge of water . The second diaphragm is placed over the open end of the barrel and the second nozzle is threaded onto the second barrel to hold the second diaphragm in place. Then the second barrel is threaded into the opening of the breech block. The ignition charge is then added to the ignition charge port of the breech block.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should be at least construed in light of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

