---

title: Repairing memory arrays
abstract: A memory array comprises a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns, each row comprising at least one addressable word. The memory array comprises at least one redundant row and at least one redundant column. Error detection circuitry analyzes the memory array by addressing words and detecting errors within the addressed words. Error repair circuitry selects for a detected error either a redundant row or a redundant column to replace one of the row or column containing the error. It is determined for the detected error whether the error is a single error bit in the addressed word or whether it is one of a plurality of error bits within the word. If the error is the latter, then the error repair circuitry preferentially selects a redundant row rather than a redundant column to repair the error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321726&OS=08321726&RS=08321726
owner: ARM Limited
number: 08321726
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20080618
---
The technical field relates to data processing and in particular to storage of data in memory arrays.

In the field of data storage microelectronic storage devices such as memories are being designed to store increasing amounts of data in ever smaller devices. This has led to faults within the devices becoming more common. Memories such as SRAM memories are therefore now being designed with some redundancy. This redundancy may be in the form of additional redundant rows and or columns in each array. During testing of the array errors can be detected and the redundant rows and or columns can be used to replace the rows and or columns having the errors within them. This means that the memories are repairable and provides a way of dealing with the increasing number of errors in such devices.

As each storage element within such an array is located within both a column and a row the repair of a faulty element can be done using either a redundant row or column. Depending on the arrangement of other faulty locations in the memory it may be more efficient to repair an error with either a redundant row or a column. In order to correct the most number of errors present using the redundant rows and columns that are available various schemes for analysing the array have been devised. In one scheme a map of the whole array is made and a covering algorithm is then generated to arrange the redundant rows and columns to cover the maximum number of errors possible. This provides the best solution but is expensive in area to perform.

A simpler scheme for determining the best way of using the available redundant row and columns to cover the highest number of errors is described in A Built In Self Repair Analyzer CRESTA for Embedded DRAMs by Kawagoe et al ITC International Test Conference 2000 pages 567 574. In this paper an array having two redundant rows and two redundant columns is considered and the best repair solution is found deterministically by trying the spare rows and columns in different orders in real time RRCC RCRC RCCR CRRC CRCR CCRR and finding the solution which covers most or all of the errors. This solution is then used to repair the memory.

A drawback of the CRESTA scheme is that the area required to provide the logic to implement the scheme is still considerable. Furthermore with two redundant rows and columns the number of potential solutions is only six however with an increasing number of redundant rows and columns this will increase dramatically. An increase in the potential number of solutions will make the CRESTA scheme more and more expensive in area.

A first aspect provides a memory array comprising a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns each row comprising at least one addressable word said memory array comprising at least one redundant row and at least one redundant column error detection circuitry for analysing said memory array by addressing words within said memory array and detecting errors within said addressed words error repair circuitry for selecting for a detected error either a redundant row or a redundant column to replace one of said row or column containing said error wherein said error repair circuitry is configured to determine for said detected error whether said error is a single error bit in said addressed word or whether it is one of a plurality of error bits within said word and if said error is said one of said plurality of errors said error repair circuitry is configured to preferentially select a redundant row rather than a redundant column to repair said error.

The inventors recognized that a simple analysis of the word being addressed may provide a very good indication as to whether a row or column would be the preferred repair option for that error. Two errors within the word would indicate that a row would be a good option as it would repair both errors using a single redundant resource while if there is only one error then this may not be the preferred solution. The technology described uses the fact that as the conventional access scheme to a memory involves addressing a word that lies in a row then it is a simple matter to analyse that word to discover if it has one or multiple errors in it. If multiple errors are discovered then repairing these errors with a row replacement results in all of the multiple errors within that word being repaired by this single replacement. Thus this simple analysis can provide in some cases a dramatic improvement in allocation of repair resource and leads to a repair solution that is inexpensive in area but still very successful. It is not necessarily the best solution but it is a good solution that can be provided with few additional resources.

In some embodiments each row comprises a plurality of addressable words and said error repair circuitry is adapted to group together at least some addressed words from a same row and to determine for an error detected within said same row whether said error comprises a single error within said grouped words or whether it comprises one of a plurality of errors within said grouped words said error repair circuitry being configured to preferentially select a redundant row rather than a redundant column to repair said error if said error is one of said plurality of errors and if said error is said single error said error repair circuitry is configured to preferentially select a redundant column to repair said error.

A simple case is to analyse an addressed word however the scheme can be improved further without much additional logic by analysing several of the words in a row. As rows are repaired as a complete entity by replacing them with a redundant row then clearly it is advantgeous when determining the preferable repair scheme to analyse more than one of the words in a row to determine if the error is a single error or one of multiple errors in that row. If it is a single error then the preferred repair scheme may be to use a redundant column while if there are multiple errors a redundant row is preferable.

In some embodiments said error repair circuitry is configured to group together all words from a same row.

Analysing all the words in the row provides a good scheme for discovering multiple errors in a single row and this information can be used to decide if a redundant row is the preferred repair mechanism.

In some embodiments in response to detecting that said detected error is a single error bit in said addressed word said error repair circuitry is configured to preferentially select a redundant column rather than a redundant row to repair said error.

Generally if the error is a single error then the preferred solution is a redundant column rather than a row. The analysis of rows to find if there are multiple errors within them is straightforward given the way that memories are addressed thus it is this that is analysed and thus if there is only a single error in the row a column can be used to repair it which leaves the redundant rows to be used to repair multiple errors where possible. Clearly if there are no spare redundant columns then a redundant row could be used.

In some embodiments said error repair circuitry is responsive to detecting no available redundant row or column corresponding to said preferential selection to select an alternative available redundant column or row instead of said preferential selection to repair said error and in response to detecting no available redundant rows or columns to issue a repair failed signal.

Where no redundant row or column is detected then the fault cannot be repaired and a repair fail signal is issued.

In some embodiments said error detection circuitry is configured to analyse said memory by addressing said words within said memory array in at least one predetermined order.

The location of the errors can be detected by addressing the words in the memory array in one or more predetermined orders. The order of addressing can be selected so that the location of the errors are found efficiently. The order used will depend upon how data words are stored in the array and thus will vary between embodiments.

Although the memory array may only have one redundant row and column in some embodiments said memory array comprises a plurality of redundant rows and columns.

A further aspect provides a method of repairing a memory array comprising at least one redundant row and at least one redundant column comprising the steps of analysing said memory array by addressing words within said memory array and detecting errors within said addressed words selecting for a detected error either a redundant row or a redundant column to replace one of said row or column containing said error wherein said step of selecting a redundant row or column comprises determining for said detected error whether said error is a single error in said addressed word or whether it is one of a plurality of errors within said word and if said error is said one of said plurality of errors preferentially selecting a redundant row rather than a redundant column to repair said error.

A yet further aspect provides a means for storing data comprising a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns each row comprising at least one addressable word said means for storing data comprising at least one redundant row and at least one redundant column error detecting means for analysing said memory array by addressing words within said memory array and detecting errors within said addressed words error repairing means for selecting for a detected error either a redundant row or a redundant column to replace one of said row or column containing said error wherein said error repairing means is configured to determine for said detected error whether said error is a single error bit in said addressed word or whether it is one of a plurality of error bits within said word and if said error is said one of said plurality of errors said error repair means is configured to preferentially select a redundant row rather than a redundant column to repair said error.

The above and other objects features and advantages will be apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

There is also error repair circuitry that is associated with the array and that in response to detecting errors from the test data such as those shown in row or row of determines if they are a single error such as is the case for row or one of multiple errors in the addressed word as is the case for row . In the case of multiple errors the row in this case row is replaced with a redundant row R so that addressing of row when the memory is in use will result in row R being accessed. In the case of a single error as in row the column that this error lies in in this case column is replaced by redundant column C in future addressing of the memory.

Analysis of how the repair can be performed is then made. First it is determined whether all redundant rows and columns have already been used. If they have then an irrepair flag is generated indicating that no further repairs can be made. If all the redundancies have not been used then an analysis is performed to determine how many bits have failed within this addressed word and where they are located. The position of the failed bits are then stored. If there is one faulty bit then the redundant columns are checked to see if one is available. If a redundant column is available the column location of the error is checked and a repair position is determined and entered into a pair of registers or . That is if C is the column that is to repair the error then the column address to be repaired is input into register and the bit position of the error is input into register . Similarly if C is the redundant column to be used then the column address is input into register and the bit position into register .

If there is more than one failed bit or if no redundant column is available then a check is made to see if any redundant rows are available. If a redundant row is available then the row to be repaired is inserted into the repair row registers or corresponding to this redundant row. This faulty row is thereby replaced with the available redundant row.

The logic analysing the error data and the availability of redundant rows and columns is logic . Control signals to the repair circuitry are received and output via input output circuit .

If the error count is 2 or more or if there are no available columns then the redundant rows are considered. First the flag associated with R is looked at. If it is 0 then R is used to replace the faulty row the flag associated with R is set to 1 and the address of the row to be repaired is input to the row repair register for R. If R is already used then R is checked and a similar process performed. If no redundant rows are available then an irrepair flag is generated that tells the testing circuit that it cannot repair the memory.

If only one error has been detected then it is determined if all column redundancies have been used. If they have then the method looks at row redundancies as is set out below. If they have not all been used then the column repair value is captured in the respective column repair register and this redundant column is used to repair the error. The memory testing can then be resumed.

If there are two or more errors or if there is only one but all redundant columns have been used then a check is made to see if all the row redundancies have been used. If they have not been used then the row repair value in the respective row repair register is captured and this redundant row is used to repair the faulty row. Memory testing is then resumed. If all row redundancies have been used then an indication is given that the memory cannot be repaired and an error is generated.

In this embodiment the number of errors are counted for each bank thus if there is more than one error in either bank or then row redundancy is given priority. If there is only one in either bank or then column redundancy is given higher priority. This is shown in

In an error is detected and then it is determined if there are two or more errors in either the upper half or the lower half bits. If there are then the redundant rows R R are analysed to see if any are available and if not then an irrepair signal is generated. If one of them is available then the address of the faulty row is written into the corresponding repair register and the flag associated with the redundant row is set to 1 to show that it is no longer available for repair.

If there are less than two errors in a single half i.e. one in either or both of the upper half or the lower half then it is determined first of all if it is the upper half or the lower half that requires correction. If it is the upper half then C is used for the repair provided it is available and if it is the lower half then C is provided for repair provided it is available. If there is an error in both then they are both used for repair provided they are both still available. If any of the required redundant columns are not available for repair then the row redundancies are looked at to see if a redundant row can be used to repair the error.

Although illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the claims are not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications can be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the appended claims.

