---

title: System and method for conditioning search results
abstract: Various embodiments of a system and method for conditioning search results are described. The system and method for conditioning search results may include a search result conditioning component. The search result conditioning component may be configured to determine a search result group including multiple search results each corresponding to an item offered for sale; such search results may be results of a search query. The search result conditioning component may be configure to modify the search result group by removing one or more search results from the search result group in response to determining that a measure of similarity between the one or more search results and other search results of the search result group is greater than a requisite measure of similarity (e.g., a threshold). The search result conditioning component may be configured to output the modified search result group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463770&OS=08463770&RS=08463770
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08463770
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080709
---
The Internet sometimes called simply the Net is a worldwide system of computer networks in which a client at any one computer may with permission obtain information from any other computer. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WWW which is commonly referred to as the web. The web may be defined as all the resources e.g. web pages and web sites and users on the Internet that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or variations thereof to access the resources. A web site is a related collection of web files that includes a beginning file called a home page. From the home page the user may navigate to other web pages on the web site. A web server program is a program that using the client server model and HTTP serves the files that form the web pages of a web site to the web users whose computers contain HTTP client programs e.g. web browsers that forward requests and display responses. A web server program may host one or more web sites.

Various applications of the Internet and of the web involve marketplaces that provide goods and or services for sale. For instance consumers may visit a merchant s website to view and or purchase goods and services offered for sale by the merchant and or third party merchants . Some network based marketplaces e.g. Internet or web based marketplaces include large catalogues of items offered for sale. To assist consumers with locating items sought for purchase many network based marketplaces provide consumers with access to a product search engine. Product search engines may enable consumers to utilize keywords or other phrases to search for a particular item or type of item. For instance a user might submit a search query including the keywords winter coat. In response to the query the search engine may indicate to the consumer one or more product listings for coats or jackets suitable for cold weather. By providing a product search engine accessible to consumers network based marketplaces can enable consumers to find multiple products that relate to their search query.

While the system and method for conditioning search results is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for conditioning search results is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the system and method for conditioning search results to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for conditioning search results as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for conditioning search results are described. The system and method for conditioning search results may include a search result conditioning component configured to remove or hide duplicates or near duplicates from search results. The search result conditioning component may be implemented within an electronic marketplace configured to provide electronic sales listings to consumers. Such sales listings may be provided to consumers in the form of one or more web pages or other network based content that may include but is not limited to text images audio video multimedia and or other information about an item for sale. In various embodiments the electronic marketplace may include a web site or other network based resource for electronic commerce. The electronic marketplace may also provide a search engine that may service search requests for one or more items such as requests submitted via a consumer s computer system. For instance a search query submitted to the search engine might include the keywords flat screen television. In this case the search engine may respond to such a query with one or more sales listings for flat screen televisions e.g. a plasma or liquid crystal display television and possibly related items such as television cables home entertainment furniture accessories and other items related to flat screen televisions. In various embodiments the search result conditioning component may be configured to modify search results before such results are ultimately provided to a client e.g. the consumer s computer system . Modifying the search results may in some cases be referred to herein as conditioning the search results. Search results may be conditioned to e.g. prevent duplicate entries among search results increase the diversity of search results and or modify the search results in some other way.

In various embodiments electronic marketplaces may generate sales listings for products sold by various merchants. In various cases the entity controlling the electronic marketplace may offer items for sale through the electronic marketplace. In some cases the entity controlling the electronic marketplace may enable other entities e.g. third party merchants to offer items for sale via the electronic marketplace in some cases for a fee . In various cases merchants may provide product information for items sold via the electronic marketplace. In some cases such information may be incomplete or unstructured. For instance such information might be missing descriptive information e.g. size weight color etc. . In some cases the electronic marketplace may offer an item for sale e.g. via a website that may be provided by any of multiple merchants. Since in some cases the sales listings for the same item may differ across merchants e.g. due to the incomplete or unstructured information described above an electronic marketplace may in response to a product search query provide disparate search results for the same item or items that are nearly the same . Due to this search characteristic search results presented to a consumer e.g. the user of a web or other network based browser may be repetitive or nearly repetitive. The search result conditioning component described herein may be configured to increase the diversity of search results i.e. reduce the number of duplicate or near duplicate search results provided to a client that submits a search query.

While various embodiments largely describe search results as search results corresponding to items offered for sale the search result conditioning component as well as the various methods described herein are not limited to such search results. Indeed in various embodiments the search results described herein may include other types of search results that do not necessarily correspond to an item offered for sale. For instance in some cases search results may correspond to content sources e.g. web pages or other network based content including images audio video etc. . For example the search results described herein may in some cases by search results of a network based or web based search engine that crawls through network content e.g. web content to generate a search index.

Electronic marketplace interface may be configured to provide access to an electronic marketplace the electronic marketplace may include sales listings for a variety of items offered for sale. In various embodiments such sales listings or data representing such sales listings may be stored in a database or other data repository such as document corpus . Such items may be offered for sale by the entity controlling enterprise system . In some cases some of the items offered for sale may be offered for sale by another entity such as third party merchants. For example a merchant controlling enterprise system may for a fee host sales listings for products sold by other merchants. For instance such other merchants may have inventory for sale but may not have the necessary infrastructure to support an electronic marketplace of their own. In other cases the other merchants may provide their own electronic marketplace but may also utilize the electronic marketplace provided by enterprise system in order to increase exposure of their inventory e.g. exposure to potential consumers .

Client system may be configured to access the electronic marketplace via a browser application e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or another type of web browser running on the client system. For example electronic marketplace interface may provide sales listings for various items to client system via one or more accessible hyperlinks or other network based addresses. Electronic marketplace interface may provide shopping cart and or checkout functionality such that user may pay for items offered for sale via the electronic marketplace interface. For instance user may specify items for purchase by adding the items to an electronic shopping cart. Further the electronic marketplace interface may be configured to process credit card or electronic check payments for such items. The electronic marketplace interface may also be configured to accept other types of payment methods e.g. money order check etc. whether such methods are currently known or developed in the future.

To facilitate the retrieval of sales listings that are pertinent to a consumer s interests enterprise system may include a document search engine . Document search engine may be configured to in response to search queries generate a search result group including one or more search results. A given search result of a search result group may indicate a sales listing associated with the search query in some cases a search result may include information for accessing such a sales listing e.g. a hyperlink or other network address of the sales listing . To submit a search query a user e.g. user may specify one or more keywords via client system such as by submitting one or more keywords through a text entry field displayed in a browser application or any other suitable method of indicating a keyword to enterprise system . Document search engine may search document corpus using various search techniques e.g. indexing tokenization etc. whether such techniques are presently known or developed in the future. For example document search engine may generate and maintain one or more indices that indicate for each of one or more keywords one or more corresponding documents e.g. sales listings of document corpus . For a particular keyword a corresponding document may be a document that includes the keyword. For a given search query document search engine may order the search results of a search result group according to a variety of factors including but not limited to the relevance of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is indicated by the given search result e.g. a measure of how relevant the product is to the search query the sales rank of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is indicated by the given search result the number of views of the sales listing indicated by the given search result e.g. web page views of the sales listing and consumer ratings of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is indicated by the given search result.

In various embodiments a search result group provided by document search engine may be conditioned before being provided to client system . Conditioning of the search results may be performed by search result conditioning component and relationship engine . Relationship engine may for a given document e.g. a given sales listing of document corpus generate multiple similarity scores each of which indicate a measure of the similarity between the given document and another document of document corpus . For instance the relationship engine may generate a similarity index that includes a listing of each document of document corpus . Additionally for each e.g. any or every listed document the relationship engine may specify multiple similarity scores e.g. one similarity score for every other document of the document corpus . Each of such similarity scores may be a similarity score that indicates a measure of the similarity between the listed document and another document of the document corpus . For instance consider the simplified example where document corpus includes three documents Doc1 Doc2 and Doc3 note that in various embodiments document corpus may include any number of documents . In this example for Doc 1 the relationship engine may generate a similarity score between Doc1 and Doc2 and a similarity score between Doc1 and Doc3. For Doc2 relationship engine may generate a similarity score between Doc2 and Doc1 and a similarity score between Doc2 and Doc3. For Doc3 relationship engine may generate a similarity score between Doc3 and Doc1 and Doc3 and Doc2. Note that the generation of a similarity score may in various embodiments be bidirectional for any two given documents. For instance the similarity score between Doc1 and Doc2 may be the same as the similarity score between Doc2 and Doc1. Accordingly in some cases it may only be necessary to generate a similarity score for a particular pair of documents once.

Similarity scores may be represented in a variety of ways. In one embodiment a similarity score may be represented by a number between 0.00 and 1.00 e.g. 0.1 might indicate low similarity between two documents and 0.95 might represent high similarity between two documents . Note the scale of 0 to 1 is merely an example. In various cases any type of similarity scale e.g. 0 to 100 1 to 500 1000 to 1000 etc. could be employed while remaining within the spirit and scope of various embodiments. In some embodiments similarity scores may be represented as a binary value e.g. yes or no . For instance a similarity score of yes might indicate that two items are indeed similar. Additionally a similarity score of no might indicate that two items are not similar. In various embodiments such binary similarity scores may be derived from non binary scores such as scores of numeric scales e.g. between 0.00 1.00 1 5000 or other scales having more than two possible states e.g. low medium high etc. . For instance consider the case where the similarity scores generated by relationship engine are represented on a scale of 0.00 1.00 such as the scores 0.05 0.85 and 0.40. The relationship engine may in various embodiments be configured to apply a similarity threshold to such scores in order to generate the binary forms e.g. yes or no of the similarity scores. For example a similarity threshold 0.8 might be employed by the relationship engine such threshold may be specified by enterprise system or another entity such as a system administrator . Applying this threshold to the previously mentioned scores 0.05 0.85 and 0.40 would result in similarity scores of no yes and no respectively. As can be readily seen from the previous example scores above the threshold may be converted to yes indicating that two given items are similar and scores below the threshold may converted to no indicating that two given items are not similar .

Relationship engine may employ various methods and techniques for generating similarity scores. In some embodiments to generate a similarity score for two documents the relationship engine may access the documents from document corpus and apply one or more rules to the documents to determine the degree to which the documents are similar. The resulting similarity score may be represented in various forms as described above e.g. numerical binary etc. . Various other techniques may be employed by the relationship engine to generate a similarity score some of which are described in commonly owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 754 241 filed May 25 2007 entitled Generating Similarity Scores for Matching Non Identical Character Strings which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 953 726 filed Dec. 10 2007 entitled Comparison Engine for Identifying Documents Describing Similar Subject Matter which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As described above document search engine may provide results of a document search initiated by a search query such as a query received from client system . In many embodiments these search results may be conditioned by search result conditioning component before the search results are provided to client system . In general the manner in which the search result conditioning component conditions the search results increases the diversity of the search results. For example one way in which the diversity of search results may be increased includes the search result conditioning component identifying a class i.e. a sub group of highly similar documents e.g. sales listings within the search result group provided by the document search engine. Additionally from each identified class a representative member may be chosen based on one or more criteria by the search result conditioning component. In some embodiments for each identified class of search results each search result that is not the representative member is removed from the search result group. In various embodiments this search result group i.e. the conditioned search result group is provided to the electronic marketplace interface which then provides the conditioned search result group to client system as described in more detail below.

Search result conditioning component may submit a search request to document search engine . Such search request may include the keyword s of the search query submitted by client system . In one example the search result conditioning component might submit the keywords ACME A75 unlocked cell phone to the document search engine. Document search engine may return a search result group that includes one or more search results to the search result conditioning component. Each of such search results may indicate a document e.g. a sales listing of document corpus that matches or corresponds to the search query. For instance each of such search results may indicate a network based addressed e.g. a hyperlink of a respective document or another identifier for the respective document. A visual example a search result group is illustrated by search result group of . Additionally illustrates a corresponding example of search result group . As illustrated by the exemplary search result group indicates document identifiers or sales listing identifiers for each of the search results illustrated in . Note that the format of the identifiers is merely exemplary. Indeed in other embodiments other formats are possible and contemplated. In general search result group may include any indication of one or more documents that are results to the given search query. As described above for a given search query document search engine may order the search results of a search result group according to a variety of factors including but not limited to the relevance of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is indicated by the given search result e.g. a measure of how relevant the product is to the search query the sales rank of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is indicated by the given search result the number of views of the sales listing indicated by the given search result e.g. web page views of the sales listing and consumer ratings of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is indicated by the given search result. Such ordering may be referred to herein as search result priority. In the illustrated embodiment of the eight search results are listed in descending order of priority as indicated by the numbers 1 8 .

As indicated by request search result conditioning component may submit one or more requests for relationship information to relationship engine . In some embodiments search result conditioning component may submit a request for relationship information for each search result of search result group . In other embodiments search result conditioning component may submit a single request for all relationship information pertaining to search result group . In some embodiments a request for relationship information may include for a given search result of search result group a request for similarity scores that indicate a measure of similarity between the given search result and each other search result of search result group such as the similarity scores described above. In other cases a request for relationship information may include for a given search result of search result group a request for a listing of the other search results of search result group to which the given search result is related.

In response to request relationship engine may return relationship information to the search result conditioning component. In various embodiments this information may include relationship information for each search result of search result group . In various embodiments such relationship information may include the similarity scores described above. illustrates an example of relationship information represented as a matrix. The illustrated matrix denotes for a given search result a similarity score for every other search result of the search result group a given similarity score indicates a measure of similarity between the given search result and an other search result. For example in the illustrated embodiment the similarity score between the search results i.e. documents or sales listings identified by B000SZOOHM and B000KENT9K is 0.25.

As described above similarity scores may also be expressed in binary form. For example the relationship engine may specify for any given search result pair whether the pair are similar e.g. by indicating yes or no or some equivalent thereof . The matrix of illustrates one example of such a representation. The illustrated matrix denotes for a given search result whether the other search results of the search result group are related to the given search result e.g. yes for similar no for not similar . In some embodiments relationship engine may generate the data represented by the matrix of by applying a threshold to the data represented by the matrix of . In one example relationship engine may generate the data represented in by applying a threshold of 0.8 to the data of . In other words for a given search result pair having a similarity score equal to or greater than 0.8 the relationship engine may indicate that such search result pair is indeed similar. Likewise for a given search result pair having a similarity score that is less than 0.8 the relationship engine may indicate that such search result pair is not similar or not similar enough to be considered similar . While the data of is based on the application of a 0.8 threshold to the data of other thresholds e.g. such as a threshold specified by the relationship engine the search result conditioning component some other component or a system administrator may be employed. In some cases a data structure representing the matrix of may omit information indicating that two given search results have a similarity score below the above described threshold i.e. the no relationships . Such a data structure may be employed for various reasons including but not limited to the conservation of data storage space e.g. storing only the yes relationships of may require less data storage space than the data storage space required to store both yes and no relationships and to ensure the clarity or relevance of the data e.g. in some embodiments the analyses and methods for search result conditioning may not require knowledge of information indicating that two given search results have a similarity score below the above described threshold .

As described above document corpus may include sales listings that may be presented to client systems e.g. client system as well as various consumers e.g. user . Note that the similarity scores described herein may in some cases be a measure of the likelihood that two sales listings represent the same item or product offered for sale. If two sales listings represent the same item the sales listings may be considered duplicates even though the sales listings themselves may in some cases differ to some extent . For example two sales listings A and B with a similarity score of 0.9 are more likely to be duplicates than two other sales listings C and D that have a similarity score of 0.85. By adjusting the threshold described above the relationship engine and or the search result conditioning component may alter the structure of the matrix of and the graph of . Consider the previous example of sales listings A and B and sales listings C and D. If the relationship engine and or the search result conditioning component applies a threshold of 0.8 to the similarity scores of sales listings A and B and sales listings C and D A and B would be indicated as duplicates by the relationship engine and or the search result conditioning component . Additionally C and D would be considered duplicates by the relationship engine and or the search result conditioning component . However had a threshold of 0.87 been employed sales listings A and B would be indicated as duplicates by the relationship engine and or the search result conditioning component whereas sales listings C and D would not be indicated as duplicates. In a similar manner a threshold of 0.92 would result in neither pair of sales listings being indicated as duplicates by the relationship engine and or the search result conditioning component .

Referring again to search result conditioning component may be configured to use relationship information to condition or modify the search result group before providing the search result group to the electronic marketplace interface and subsequently to client system . Search result conditioning component may modify the search results by removing or hiding as described in more detail below search results from the search result group. Various methods may be employed by the search result conditioning component to modify or prune the search result group before subsequently providing such search result group to electronic marketplace interface and client system . Examples of such methods are described below.

One method of modifying search results such as search results provided by the document search engine includes an edge cover method which is illustrated by the flowchart of . As illustrated by block the method may include evaluating each of the search results with the techniques described below with respect to blocks and . In various embodiments each search result may be evaluated in order of priority. For instance the search results illustrated in may be evaluated in order from highest priority search result to lowest priority search result .

As illustrated by block the method may include determining search result s of the search result group that have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the search result currently being evaluated. In various embodiments such requisite measure of similarity may be a similarity score equal to or greater than a particular value. One example of such value includes the similarity score threshold described above. For instance in some embodiments the method may include determining whether the similarity score between the current search result and another search result meets a particular similarity score threshold. Note the table of and the graph of indicate for a given search result which search results have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the given search result. In such indication is provided by a yes entry. In such indication is provided by the presence of an edge between a given node and another node. In these cases an exemplary threshold of 0.8 has been utilized however any other suitable threshold may be employed in other cases.

As illustrated by block the method may include removing from the search result group the search results that are determined to have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the current search result. For instance for a given search result being evaluated the method may include removing the search results to which the given search result is connected by an edge as illustrated in . In another example the method may include removing the search results to which the given search result is similar as indicated by the table of . As indicated by block the method may include repeating the elements of the method described with respect to blocks and for each search result of the search result group. As described in more detail below with respect to the section entitled Measures of Similarity Different Degrees of Similarity measures of similarity may have various degrees.

Once each search result has been evaluated the remaining search results may be outputted as a modified search result group. For instance such modified search result group may include the conditioned search results of .

An example of the edge cover method may be described with respect to the graph of . includes graph described above with respect to . In accordance with block of the example may include evaluating the first search result of the graph. As described above the first search result may be the search result having the highest priority. As illustrated by the search result having the highest priority is B000KENT9K. In accordance with block the example may include determining the search results that are connected to B000KENT9K by an edge. In the illustrated graph B000PPLHOI is connected to B000KENT9K by edge and B000PGE8L6 is connected to B000KENT9K by edge . In accordance with block the example may include removing both B000PPLHOI and B000PGE8L6 from the search result group. In accordance with block the above techniques may be repeated for each of the other search results e.g. in order of priority . In this example the next search result to evaluate is B000SZOOHM. Applying the techniques of blocks and for B000SZOOHM may result in the removal of B000PPLHOI. However in this case B000PPLHOI has already been removed. Accordingly it is not necessary to remove B000PPLHOI again. By repeating the techniques of blocks and for the remaining nodes in the graph all nodes except B000PPLHOI and B000PGE8L6 will remain for this example. In accordance with block the search results that have not been removed may be outputted see e.g. described below .

One example of search results modified by the edge cover method is illustrated by . Note that illustrates conditioned search results after B000PPLHOI and B000PGE8L6 have been removed in accordance with the edge cover method example described above. Conditioned search results of may illustrate one example of search results provided by the search result conditioning component to electronic marketplace interface as illustrated in . Electronic marketplace interface may provide the conditioned search results to client system . In turn client system may display conditioned search results to a user e.g. user as illustrated by the browser display of .

One method of modifying search results such as search results provided by the document search engine includes a label cover method which is described in more detail below with respect to . To perform the label cover method each search result of a search result group e.g. search result group may first be labeled using various methods. One method for labeling search results is described herein with respect to . As illustrated by block the method may include evaluating each of the search results with the techniques described below with respect to blocks . In various embodiments each search result may be evaluated in order of priority. For instance the search results illustrated in may be evaluated in order from highest priority search result to lowest priority search result .

As illustrated by block the method may include determining the search result s of the search result group e.g. search result group that have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the current search result being evaluated. In various embodiments such requisite measure of similarity may be a similarity score equal to or greater than a particular value. One example of such value includes the similarity score threshold described above. For instance in some embodiments the method may include determining whether the similarity score between the current search result and another search result meets a particular similarity score threshold. Note the table of and the graph of indicate for a given search result which search results have a requisite measure of similarity with the given search result. In such indication is provided by a yes entry. In such indication is provided by the presence of an edge between a given node and another node. In these cases an exemplary threshold of 0.8 has been utilized however any other suitable threshold may be employed in other cases.

As illustrated by block the method may also include lexicographically sorting the current search result being evaluated and the search results that have been determined to have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the current search result. For example each of such search results may be lexicographically sorted according to its respective identifier. As indicated by block the method may also include labeling the current search result with the identifier of the search result appearing earliest in the lexicographical sort. As indicated by block the portion of the method described with respect to block is repeated for each search result of the search result group.

The table of illustrates an example of the application of the method illustrated in to a search result group such as search result group illustrated at column rows . In accordance with block of the example may include determining the search result s of the search result group that have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the search result of column row B00KENT9K . In this example the information represented by the table of or the graph of may be used to determine the search results having a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the search result identified by B000KENT9K. As illustrated by row of column such search results are identified by B000PPLHOI and B000PGE8L6. In accordance with block of the example may include lexicographically sorting the search result B000KENT9K and the search results B000PPLHOI B000PGE8L6 having a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the search result. As illustrated by row column lexicographically sorting such search results yields B000KENT9K B000PGE8L6 B000PPLHOI. In accordance with block the example may include assigning a label to the search result being evaluated such label may include the identifier of the search result appearing earliest in the lexicographical sort. As indicated by column of row B000KENT9K is the identifier appearing first in the lexicographical sort. Accordingly B000KENT9K is the label assigned to the search result identified by B00KENT9K as indicated by column of row . In this example similar techniques are applied to each row of the table to determine the additional labels of column .

As indicated by block the portions of the method described with respect to block and may be repeated for each search result of the search result group. For a given search result the method may include sorting based on degree the current search result and each other search result of the search result group having a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the current search result block . As indicated by block once sorted the method may include labeling the current search result with the identifier of the search result having the highest degree according to the sort performed with respect to block . As indicated by block blocks and may be repeated for each search result of the search result group.

The table of illustrates an example of the application of the method illustrated in to a search result group such as search result group illustrated at column rows . In accordance with block of the example may include determining the degree of each search result. For example each of rows of column may represent the degree of the corresponding search result. In some embodiments this degree may represent the number of edges to which the search result is coupled as illustrated in the graph of . In accordance with block for a given search result the example may include performing a degree based sort on the given search result and other search results having a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the given search result. For instance consider the given search result identified by B000KENT9K. In the illustrated example the search results identified by B000PPLHOI and B000PGE8L6 have a requisite degree of similarity with respect to the given search result. For instance as indicated by the graph of edges couple B000KENT9K and B000PPLHOI as well as B000KENT9K and B000PGE8L6. As indicated by column B000KENT9K has a degree of 2 B000PPLHOI has a degree of 6 and B000PGE8L6 has a degree of 5. Accordingly column of row illustrates each of such search results sorted by degree with B000PPLHOI being the search result having the highest degree. Accordingly column of row indicates that the label assigned to the given search result B000KENT9K is B000PPLHOI. In a similar manner the method of may be applied to each row of the table to generate the illustrated results.

After labels have been generated for the search results of the search result group such as described above with respect to the lexicographical and degree based labeling techniques the label cover method may be performed as described herein. Note that in various embodiments the generation of labels may be performed offline e.g. in some cases well before the application of the label cover method . For instance labels may be generated and stored in a data store the search result conditioning component may access such labels from the data store. Alternatively in some cases labels may be generated by the search result conditioning component while performing the label cover method e.g. in real time or on the fly . Note that in some embodiments other components may be tasked with generating labels for the label cover method the search result conditioning component may utilize such labels for the label cover method described herein.

As illustrated by block the method may include determining whether the label of the current search result has been previously added to a set of covered labels. Such set of covered labels may be a record generated or managed by the search result conditioning component described herein. As indicated by the negative output of block if the label of the current search result has not been previously added to the set of covered labels the method may include adding the label of the current search result to the set of covered labels block . If the label of the current search result has not been previous added to the set of covered labels the method may also or alternatively include indicating that the search result is to be displayed as a search result. For instance the method may include indicating that the current search result is to be displayed in a listing of search results provided to client system . As indicated by the positive output of block if the label of the current search result has been previously added to the set of covered labels the method may include removing the search result from the search result group block and or indicating that the search result is not to be displayed as a search result block . For instance the method may include indicating that the current search result is not to be displayed in a listing of search results provided to client system . As indicated by block the method may be repeated for each of the search results of the search result group e.g. search result group .

The label cover example described herein may be performed in conjunction with any method of labeling search results such as the lexicographical sorting and degree sorting methods described above. In other cases other methods of labeling search results may be employed whether such methods are currently known or developed in the future. In the illustrated example the labels derived using the lexicographical sorting method will be utilized to illustrate the label cover method. Note that the use of such labels is merely exemplary in other cases other labels such as those derived from the degree sorting method or some other labeling method may be utilized. In accordance with block the label cover method may be applied to each search result of the search result group as illustrated by the search results of column of rows . In accordance with block the illustrated example may include determining whether the label B000KENT9K row column of the first search result B000KENT9K row column has been previously added to the set of covered labels. Since this is the first iteration of the method in this example no labels may have been previously added to the set of covered labels. Accordingly the example may include adding the search result identifier s label B000KENT9K column of row to the set of covered labels as indicated at column of row in accordance with block of . In accordance with block of the example may also include indicating that the search result is to be displayed column of row e.g. displayed on client system .

In accordance with block the example may evaluate the next search result B000SZOOHM in the search result group. In accordance with block the illustrated example may include determining whether the search result label B000PPLHOI column of row was previously added to the set of covered labels column of row . In the illustrated case the label has not been previously added to the set of covered labels e.g. B000PPLHOI is not a member of set indicated at column of row . Accordingly the example may include adding the label to the set of covered labels as indicated at column of row in accordance with block of . The example may also include indicating the search result is to be displayed column of row e.g. displayed on client system .

In accordance with block the example may evaluate the next search result B000PPLHOI in the search result group. In accordance with block the illustrated example may include determining whether the search result label B000KENT9K column of row was previously added to the set of covered labels column of row . In the illustrated case the label has been previously added to the set of covered labels e.g. B000KENT9K is a member of set indicated at column of row . Accordingly the example may include removing the search result from the search result group e.g. search result group in accordance with block of . The example may also include indicating the search result is not to be displayed column of row . The label cover method described herein may be applied to the remaining search results column rows to obtain the additional results of the illustrated table.

In this example the resulting modified or conditioned search results are illustrated as modified search result group of . Such search result may be provided from the search result conditioning component to the electronic marketplace interface and or client system as is illustrated in . Additionally illustrates such modified search results as search results presented to a user e.g. user of the client system. In various embodiments electronic marketplace interface may provide the conditioned search results to the client system e.g. conditioned search results of according to a variety of data formats. In one embodiment the search results are provided to the client system as part of a network based document such as a web page. For instance electronic marketplace interface may provide conditioned search results to the client system in response to search query such search results may be provided as part of a web page as illustrated in the exemplary display of .

In the illustrated example of the labels derived using the degree sorting method will be utilized to illustrate the label cover method. In accordance with block the label cover method may be applied to each search result of the search result group as illustrated by the search results of column of rows . In accordance with block the illustrated example may include determining whether the label B000PPLHOI row column of the first search result B000KENT9K row column has been previously added to the set of covered labels. Since this is the first iteration of the method in this example no labels may have been previously added to the set of covered labels. Accordingly the example may include adding the search result identifier s label B000PPLHOI column of row to the set of covered labels as indicated at column of row in accordance with block of . In accordance with block of the example may also include indicating that the search result is to be displayed column of row e.g. displayed on client system .

In accordance with block the example may evaluate the next search result B000SZOOHM in the search result group. In accordance with block the illustrated example may include determining whether the search result label B000PPLHOI column of row was previously added to the set of covered labels column of row . In the illustrated case the label has been previously added to the set of covered labels e.g. B000PPLHOI is a member of set indicated at column of row . Accordingly the example may include removing the search result from the search result group e.g. search result group in accordance with block of . The example may also include indicating the search result is not to be displayed column of row . The label cover method described herein may be applied to the remaining search results column rows to obtain the additional results of the illustrated table.

In this example the resulting modified or conditioned search results are illustrated as modified search result group of . Such search result may be provided from the search result conditioning component to the electronic marketplace interface and or client system as is illustrated in . Additionally illustrates such modified search results as search results presented to a user e.g. user of the client system. In various embodiments electronic marketplace interface may provide the conditioned search results to the client system e.g. conditioned search results of according to a variety of data formats. In one embodiment the search results are provided to the client system as part of a network based document such as a web page. For instance electronic marketplace interface may provide conditioned search results to the client system in response to search query such search results may be provided as part of a web page as illustrated in the exemplary display of .

In some embodiments the methods including the edge cover method and label cover method described herein may include determining e.g. as described above with respect to block and removing e.g. as described above with respect to block and block search results of a given search result group that have a requisite measure of similarity having multiple e.g. 1 n degrees with respect to a given search result being evaluated as used herein the term degree may correspond to separation by one edge . For instance consider search result B000SZOOHM of . In some embodiments a requisite measure of similarity may correspond to a single degree of similarity. In this case B000PPLHOI would be the only search result to be determined to have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to search result B000SZOOHM. Accordingly when evaluating B000SZOOHM B000SZOOHM may be the only search result removed from the search result group. However in other embodiments a requisite measure of similarity may correspond to multiple e.g. two or more degrees of similarity. For example in one embodiment the requisite measure of similarity may correspond to two degrees of similarity. In this case B000PXNLK8 B000KENT9K B000PGE8L6 B000PMJ23E and B000P7XQ40 in addition to B000PPLHOI would also be determined as having a requisite measure of similarity with respect to B000SZOOHM since each of such search results are within two degrees of similarity with respect to B000SZOOHM.

In some embodiments the methods including the edge cover method and label cover method described herein may include determining e.g. as described above with respect to block and removing e.g. as described above with respect to block and block search results of the search result group that have a requisite measure of similarity having any degree of similarity with respect to the search result being evaluated. Such search results may be referred to as a connected search result group. A given connected search result group may include one or more search results that are connected whether directly or via intermediate search results by an edges. For instance as illustrated in search results B000SZOOHM B000PPLHOI B000PXNLK8 B000KENT9K B000PGE8L6 B000PMJ23E and B000P7X040 may form one connected search result group. Since B000UO66TK is not connected to any of B000SZOOHM B000PPLHOI B000PXNLK8 B000KENT9K B000PGE8L6 B000PMJ23E and B000P7XQ40 i.e. no edge exists between B000UO66TK and the other search results of B000UO66TK is not a member of the same connected search result group. Since B000UO66TK is not connected to any other search result group of i.e. no edge exists between B000UO66TK and the other search results of B000UO66TK may be a member of its own connected search result group that includes only one search result.

Note that in embodiments where connected search result groups are utilized as the basis for determining similarity between search results the search result conditioning component may select a representative search result of the connected search result group and remove or hide all other search results of the search result group. Such a representative may be chosen based on one or more factors including but not limited to relevance of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is a candidate to be the representative e.g. a measure of how relevant the product is to the search query the sales rank of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is a candidate to be the representative the number of views of the sales listing that is a candidate to be the representative e.g. web page views of the sales listing and consumer ratings of the product corresponding to the sales listing that is a candidate to be the representative.

In various embodiments the size of the connected search result groups may be manipulated by varying the threshold applied to relationship information e.g. varying the threshold applied to the similarity scores . For instance a low threshold may yield larger connected search result groups than a higher threshold. For instance with respect to had a threshold of 0.10 been applied to the relationship information of utilizing any of the various techniques described above the graph of would instead illustrate a single connected search result group. Likewise had a threshold of 0.90 been applied to the relationship information of utilizing any of the various techniques described above the graph of would instead illustrate more than two connected search result groups. In this way manipulating the threshold may change the composition and number of connected search result groups of various similarity data representations.

In the various embodiments described herein some search results of a search result group e.g. search result group may be removed to create a modified or conditioned search result group e.g. search result groups and or . In some embodiments instead of generating modified search result groups by removing search results from a search result group the search result conditioning component may be configured to indicate that search results be hidden from view. For instance for any given search result determined to be removed from a search result group the search result conditioning component may instead of completely removing the search result indicate that such search result is to be hidden. For instance conditioned search results which are provided to electronic marketplace may include one or more search results indicated as hidden by the search result conditioning component . Accordingly electronic marketplace may be configured to provide conditioned search results including hidden search results to client system . illustrate two instances of browser display that may be utilized to provide hidden search results to a user. may illustrates search results A which is similar to the browser display described above with respect to . However the display of includes a hidden search result toggle control . By selecting hidden search result toggle control a user e.g. user may view hidden search results that have a requisite measure of similarity with respect to the visible search result. illustrates an expanded view of the search result display e.g. subsequent to the selection of toggle control . The expanded view includes search results B which includes search results previously indicated as hidden by the search result conditioning component described herein.

Various embodiments of a system and method for conditioning search results as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by . Computer system may be capable of implementing search result conditioning component such as search result conditioning component . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing search result conditioning component such as search result conditioning component described above are shown stored within system memory as search result conditioning component . In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems e.g. client system and or other components of enterprise system illustrated as item of or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement a search result conditioning component such as search result conditioning component . In one embodiment search result conditioning component may implement the methods described above such as the methods illustrated by and . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly various embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of the blocks of the methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The various embodiments described herein are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

