---

title: System for collecting computer application usage data of targeted application programs executed on a plurality of client devices
abstract: A system and method for collecting computer application usage data from a plurality of client devices. The system may include a monitoring program executable on each of the plurality of client devices. The monitoring program may be configured to receive from a server via a computer network monitoring data including one or more application identifiers, and to identify one or more target application programs executed on the client device as matching one of the identifiers. The monitoring program may further be configured to gather usage data for the target application program over a period of time, and send a message back to the server including the usage data. Reports may be generated based on the usage data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713157&OS=08713157&RS=08713157
owner: Interpret, LLC
number: 08713157
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081114
---
The popularity of computer gaming has increased with the rise of the Internet and the development of online games. Many of these games require significant gaming time for gamers to complete and a new genre of massively multiplayer online games has emerged which do not have a defined ending but rather are played in so called persistent worlds that continue indefinitely. As a result gamers are spending increasing amounts of time engaged in the pursuit of computer gaming. To reach this audience of gamers in game advertising technologies have been developed that present in game advertisements to gamers during game play.

One drawback with current computer games and in game advertising technologies is that it is difficult to determine usage statistics for various games played by gamers which could aid in effectively targeting advertising as well as providing feedback to game developers. While the operator of a particular online game may collect access statistics at its own game servers no mechanism exists for the assemblage of usage data from a wide variety of different games from different game operators and developers which are played on different user computers and game servers. This can result in ineffective advertising or misplaced development efforts both of which can degrade the user experience in a computer game.

A system and method for collecting computer application usage data from a plurality of client devices are provided. The system may include a monitoring program executable on each of the plurality of client devices. The monitoring program may be configured to receive from a server via a computer network monitoring data including one or more application identifiers and to identify one or more target application programs executed on the client device as matching one of the identifiers. The monitoring program may further be configured to gather usage data for the target application program over a period of time and send a message back to the server including the usage data. Reports may be generated based on the usage data.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The monitoring program may be configured to be executed on each client device for example from the time of download or thereafter upon start up of the client device while a user of the computing device interacts with various other computer applications on the client device. The data cannot instruct the program the program is designed to look through the data and monitor all programs listed in this data set . The monitoring data may instruct the monitoring program to monitor for computer application usage of one or more target computer programs on the client device as described in detail below. In some embodiments the target application programs may be computer games.

A login procedure may be initiated in response to execution of the monitoring program . The login procedure may include prompting the client for login information such as a username and password. If the login fails the use of the monitoring program may be terminated. However if the login is successful execution of the monitoring program continues. In some configurations login information may be saved allowing subsequent logins to occur automatically. During periods of offline use the monitoring program may collect usage data for each user login as described below and upload the usage data to the server when a network connection is established.

After performing the requested monitoring the monitoring program may be configured to send usage data reporting the usage of the target application programs on the client device back to the server via the network . The server may be configured to receive and store the usage data from the plurality of clients in a related database . The server may further be configured to generate a report based on the usage data that has been received from the plurality of client devices .

Turning initially to the hardware configuration of client device the client device may be configured with a processor linked by a bus to a video controller sound card memory such as random access memory and a mass storage device. An input output interface may be provided via which one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse game controller and a display may be connected to the client device . Various application programs may be stored in mass storage device for execution by processor using portions of memory including the monitoring program and one or more in use applications . An application programming interface API may be provided to enable the monitoring programs and other application programs executed on the client device to communicate with the operating system of client device and ascertain various information about the hardware and software configuration of the client device .

Turning now to the communication between the server and the client device a server side communication module of the server may be configured to receive a request for monitoring data from the monitoring program and in response send the monitoring data to the client device via the computer network . The monitoring data may include a target application program list including one or more application identifiers which have been generated by and or stored on server . The monitoring data may also include predetermined identification rules which also have been generated by and or stored on server . After an initial monitoring data is sent it will be appreciated that the predetermined identification rules and or the target application program list may be updated periodically either at regular or varying intervals via the server through the issuance of subsequent monitoring data over time. The monitoring program and server may be configured to determine whether updated monitoring data is to be downloaded to the monitoring program for example by tracking the version of the monitoring data for example and deciding to transmit the monitoring data only if the monitoring program and or server determine that the monitoring data saved on the client device is out of date.

The monitoring program may include a client side communication module configured to request the monitoring data from the server and to receive the monitoring data sent in response and pass the monitoring data along to other modules within the monitoring program . For example the monitoring program may further include an identification module configured to receive the monitoring data and identify one or more target application programs executed on the client device as matching one of the identifiers and or one of the predetermined identification rules .

The identification module of the monitoring program is configured to identify one or more target computer application programs from among in use applications for monitoring in at least two ways. First the monitoring program may query via API to determine in use applications that are currently being executed on the client device and may compare these applications against a target application program list to identify one or more target application programs that match application identifiers in the target application program list . The target application program may for example be a computer game that is configured to be executed on the client device and which may also connect to an online third party game server via computer network for example.

In addition the identification module of the monitoring program may be configured to apply identification rules to determine whether any of the applications that are currently executed on the client device and which do not match any application identifiers in the target list and thus may be referred to as unknown applications match the predetermined identification rules . Such a matching unknown application may be inferred to be a target application program such as a computer game for example. In this manner the monitoring program can be used to monitor even usage of application programs that are not included in the target application program list giving a more complete picture of aggregate gaming behavior.

The monitoring program may further include a data collection module configured to gather usage data for the one or more target application programs over a period of time. Once an application is identified as a target application program the data collection module is configured to begin collecting usage data related to the target application program. The usage data may include application title duration of use start time of use end time of use idle time during which the application was executed but no user activity was detected and a usage ranking etc. Where the target application program is a computer game the usage data may further include gaming application usage data such as player name rank score game achievements advertisements spending habbits peripheral software and hardware usage etc.

Once the usage data is gathered by the data collection module the client side communication module of the monitoring program may be further configured to send a message back to the server side communication module of the server including the usage data . In some examples usage data may be transmitted to the server in response to start up of the monitoring program and at regular or programmatically varied intervals. The usage data may be stored in a database accessible to the server and aggregated with usage data from other client devices . A report module executed on the server may generate a report from the usage data received and aggregated from the plurality of clients. An exemplary report is shown in illustrating computer game usage. The depicted report includes the following data for each targeted application game title administrator gamer start time end time change in time idle time as well as total rank. It will be appreciated that the illustrated report is exemplary in nature and that a wide variety of other usage data may be presented in report .

Turning now to the content of the predetermined identification rules the predetermined identification rules may be based on a variety of factors relating to hardware or software executed on the client device . For example the predetermined identification rules may instruct the monitoring program to monitor a hardware configuration of the client device . The hardware configuration may be monitored by monitoring hardware parameters such as processor attributes e.g. processor name and speed and processor usage video controller attributes e.g. video controller name model number and adapter RAM size and video controller usage memory attributes e.g. graphics adapter RAM cache RAM and main RAM size and memory usage sound card attributes and sound card usage network connection attributes and network connection usage user input device attributes e.g. type and number of input devices and user input device usage and display attributes e.g. monitor screen height and monitor screen width and display usage.

The predetermined identification rules may also instruct the monitoring program to monitor a software configuration of the client device . The software configuration may be monitored by monitoring software parameters such as operating system attributes and or network communications attributes. The operating system attributes may include operating system name build number major service pack version and or minor service pack version for example. The network communications attributes may include the presence and bandwidth of a network connection and or a network communications history of uniform resource locators or domains browsed by target application programs on the client device for example.

In one embodiment monitoring of the hardware and software configuration of the client device may be implemented via a software and hardware profiling module . The software and hardware profiling module may be executed at initial execution of the monitoring program and login and upon subsequently detecting an upgrade in software or hardware configurations or at other suitable times. In another embodiment the software and hardware configuration of the client device may be stored on the client device and or sent to the server for inclusion in statistical reports. In addition to the configuration of software and hardware the usage of the software and hardware of the client device may also be monitored and may be used to determine whether unknown application programs are for example computer games. Typically this usage data used in target application program detection is not transmitted to the server to conserve bandwidth and memory resources. However in other embodiments this usage data could be transmitted to the server. Other usage data such as data indicating usage of a target application program is typically transmitted to the server as described herein.

It will be appreciated that numerous other hardware parameters and software parameters may be monitored by the monitoring program and the above parameters are merely illustrative.

In another embodiment the predetermined identification rules may further include threshold values against which the software attributes in the software configuration and hardware attributes in the hardware configuration of the client device are compared and actions to take if the thresholds values are met. For example an unknown application program might be determined to be a computer game application program if the video controller usage and or sound card usage are above a threshold value when executing the computer game application program.

The monitoring program may be configured to implement such predetermined identification rules by monitoring hardware components such as a processor video controller sound card random access memory RAM a mass storage device input output interface configured to interface with one or more user input devices and a display and or a network interface through which internet communications are sent etc. These hardware components may be monitored by the monitoring program by making appropriate calls to the API of the operating system of the client device or by other suitable mechanisms. Similarly API calls may be used by the monitoring program to query various software attributes of the client device when applying the predetermined identification rules . In other examples the hardware components may not be monitored to decrease the processor usage and storage requirements of the monitoring program.

Although server is depicted as a single server in it will be appreciated that the server may be embodied by a plurality of servers in a server farm. Further the functions of server may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices. Thus the functions related to generating target application program list and identification rules and communicating these in the monitoring data to the client device may be carried out by a server side communication module executed on a first computing device and the report generation tasks of the report module may be carried out on a second computing device. Typically the server does not also execute a computer gaming server such as third party game server although in some embodiments this may be possible.

As illustrated at the method includes sending a request from a server to each of a plurality of client devices over a network. The request may prompt the user of each client device to consent to monitoring of computer application usage on the client device and transmission of usage data to server .

At the method may further include determining if each client has consented to monitoring. If a user of a client device has not consented the method ends and monitoring is not performed for that client device. However assuming consent is received for each of the plurality of client devices then at the method includes transmitting or downloading a monitoring program from a server to each of the plurality of client devices via a computer network.

At the method further includes sending monitoring data from the server to each of the plurality of client devices via a computer network the monitoring data including one or more application identifiers and or predetermined identification rules as described above. The monitoring program of each client device is configured to interpret the monitoring data to identify one or more target application programs executed on the respective client device as matching one of the identifiers and or one of the predetermined identification rules and to gather usage data for the one or more target application programs over a period of time.

In some embodiments the method may be applied to identify target application programs that are computer games. In addition it will be appreciated that the application identifiers may be included in a target application program list sent from the server to the client devices in monitoring data for example as described above.

As described above the predetermined identification rules may instruct the monitoring program to monitor a hardware configuration and or a software configuration of the client device. For example the hardware configuration may be monitored by monitoring hardware parameters such as processor attributes and processor usage video controller attributes and video controller usage memory attributes and memory usage sound card attributes and sound card usage network connection attributes and usage user input device attributes and usage and display attributes and display usage. The software configuration may be monitored by monitoring operating system attributes and or network communications attributes as described above.

As shown at the method may include executing the monitoring program for example at the time of initial download of the monitoring program to the client device or in response to a start up of the client device.

At the method includes determining the applications in use i.e. executed by the client device. If no applications are in use the method may loop to continue determining at until monitoring program is exited for example when the client device is shut down. If one or more applications are determined to be in use then the method includes at identifying one or more target application programs executed on the respective client device from among the in use applications as matching one of the identifiers and or one of the predetermined identification rules.

At the method includes gathering usage data for the one or more target application programs over a period of time which may be specified by the monitoring data received from the server. The usage data may include the types of usage data described above.

At the method may include sending the gathered usage data to the server from each of the plurality of clients. At the method may include receiving the gathered usage data at the server from each of the plurality of clients. At the method may include aggregating usage data received from each of the plurality of clients and at the method may include generating an analysis report based on the gathered and aggregated usage data received from each of the plurality of clients.

The above described systems and methods may be used to efficiently gather usage data reflecting usage of different application programs such as computer games on a plurality of client devices connected to a server via a computer network through the use of a downloaded monitoring program and monitoring data that includes a target application program list and or identification rules from which the application programs may be identified for monitoring. The method may be utilized even where the different application programs are offered by different manufacturers utilize different third party game servers or even in some cases where the identity of the application programs is not known before hand. In this manner rich information about gaming behavior may be gained which may inform both game development and in game advertising efforts.

It will be understood that various types of computing devices may be used for the client devices and servers described herein such as personal computers laptop computers mainframe computers web enabled mobile communications devices mobile telephones etc. These computing devices may be connected by a variety of interconnected networks including local area and wide area networks. Each computing device may include a processor non volatile and volatile memory mass storage a display and one or more user input devices. The various programs described herein are typically stored in mass storage and executed by the processor using portions of volatile and non volatile memory of each computing device. It will be understood that the term program refers broadly to one or more executable files libraries stored data application programming interfaces and or other software components that may interact together to perform the functions described herein.

It will be understood that the embodiments herein are illustrative and not restrictive since the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims rather than by the description preceding them and all changes that fall within metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds thereof are therefore intended to be embraced by the claims.

