---

title: Fiber optic optical subassembly configuration
abstract: A fiber optic optical subassembly configuration for monitoring fibers. The configuration includes a hollow container, a laser for emitting laser signals towards the fibers being monitored, a photodetector for monitoring reflected laser signals from the fibers being monitored and for monitoring laser output power, a beam splitter and an optical fiber. The optical fiber, disposed within the hollow container, has a coated end face surface, the laser emits signals toward and through the beam splitter, whereby a portion of the laser signal illuminates the photodetector, and another portion traverses down the optical fiber toward the coated end face surface and reflects off the coated end face surface toward the fibers that are being monitored, and reflects back from the fibers being monitored to the photodetector such that faults on the fibers can be detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07714991&OS=07714991&RS=07714991
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07714991
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081021
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The above listed invention is hereby cross referenced and related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 789 120 filed Apr. 25 2007 entitled Transceiver Optical Subassembly by inventor Mark W. Beranek U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 789 121 filed Apr. 25 2007 entitled Hybrid Fiber Optic Transceiver Optical Subassembly by inventor Mark W. Beranek and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 900 143 filed Sep. 5 2007 entitled Optical Bench Fiber Optic Transmitter by inventor Mark W. Beranek. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 789 120 11 789 121 and 11 900 143 are not admitted to be prior art with respect to the present invention. The applications are hereby incorporated by reference. All inventions are assigned to the same assignee and have a common inventor.

The present invention relates to a fiber optic optical subassembly configuration. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates to a micro optic based fiber optic beam splitter for reflectometry that can be used for monitoring fibers.

The present invention is directed to a transmitter or subassembly that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a fiber optic optical subassembly configuration for monitoring fibers. The configuration includes a hollow container a laser for emitting laser signals towards the fibers being monitored a photodetector for monitoring reflected laser signals from the fibers being monitored and for monitoring laser output power a beam splitter and an optical fiber. The container has an axis and an outer circumference. The laser is disposed along or outside the outer circumference of the container and the photodetector is disposed along or outside the outer circumference of the container. The photodetector is disposed in a position that is substantially diametrically opposed or opposite to the laser. The beam splitter is disposed within the container and the optical fiber is embedded in the container and substantially parallel to the axis of the container. The optical fiber is disposed perpendicularly to the laser signal emitted by the laser. The optical fiber has a coated end face surface the laser emits signals toward and through the beam splitter whereby a portion of the laser signal illuminates the photodetector and another portion traverses down the optical fiber toward the coated end face surface and reflects off the coated end face surface toward the fibers that are being monitored and reflects back from the fibers being monitored to the photodetector such that faults on the fibers can be detected.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a fiber optic optical subassembly configuration that allows vertical cavity surface emitting laser power monitoring and or edge emitting laser diode power monitoring.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a fiber optic optical subassembly configuration that can accurately locate and isolate faults in fiber optic cables and or fiber optic transceivers.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As seen in the fiber optic optical subassembly configuration for monitoring fibers includes a hollow container a laser for emitting laser signals towards the fibers being monitored a photodetector for monitoring reflected laser signals from the fibers being monitored and for monitoring laser output power a beam splitter and an optical fiber . The container has an axis and an outer circumference . The laser is disposed along or outside the outer circumference of the container and the photodetector is also disposed along or outside the outer circumference of the container . The photodetector is disposed in a position substantially diametrically opposed to the laser disposed opposite from each other along the outer circumference of the container . The beam splitter is disposed within the container preferably on or within the optical fiber and the optical fiber is embedded in the container and substantially parallel to the axis of the container . In one of the embodiments of the invention the optical fiber and the container are axially aligned. The optical fiber is disposed substantially perpendicular to the initial laser signal emitted by the laser . The optical fiber has a coated end face surface the laser emits signals toward and through the beam splitter whereby a portion of the laser signal illuminates the photodetector the photodetector portion signal and another portion traverses down the optical fiber toward the coated end face surface the coated end face surface portion signal and reflects off the coated end face surface along or substantially parallel to the axis of the optical fiber toward the fibers that are being monitored the reflected coated end face surface portion signal and reflects back from the fibers being monitored along the optical fiber and via the beam splitter to the photodetector the fiber reflected portion signal such that faults on the fibers can be detected. Micro optic lenses or any other type of lenses may be placed between the photodetector and the container and between the laser and the container to maximize light coupling efficiency between the laser photodetector and optical fiber .

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in an avionic or aircraft fiber link environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of need that requires use of a optical subassembly configuration. The configuration may be used but without limitations in military operations communications and various other electronic uses. Additionally the same techniques and or subassembly described here for laser diodes can be applied to surface emitting and edge emitting LEDs as well as other types of lasers.

The container may be a cylinder a tube a rectangular box or any type of shape practicable. The hollow container may be a container with lenses disposed at its ends. The container may be manufactured from glass or quartz or may be a cylindrical GRIN lens. A GRIN lens is but without limitation a lens whose material refractive index varies continuously as a function of spatial coordinates in the medium. In another embodiment of the invention the entire container may be a lens with the elements disposed within the lens itself as described above in a GRIN lens . In another embodiment of the invention a portion of the photodector may be swapped with a fiber.

A laser may be defined but without limitation as a light source producing through stimulated emission coherent near monochromatic light or light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. One embodiment of the invention includes a laser that is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL . A vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL is typically but without limitation a specialized laser diode a laser diode also known as an injection laser or diode laser may be defined but without limitation as a semiconductor device that produces coherent radiation in which the waves are all at the same frequency and phase in the visible or infrared IR spectrum when current passes through it . The configuration may also include a laser driver circuit . The laser driver circuit provides current to the laser such that the laser emits signals specifically optical signals or light.

A photodetector may be defined but without limitation as a device capable of sensing light and converting it to electricity. The photodetector may be a positive intrinsic negative p i n photodetector either front illuminated or back illuminated a metal semiconductor metal MSM or an avalanche photodiode or photodetector. However any type of photodetector can be utilized as practicable.

A beam splitter is an optical device that splits a beam of light in two. The beam splitter may be a polished plane that is angled or oblique to the axis of the optical fiber and acts as a beam splitter. However any type of conventional beam splitter may be utilized.

An optical fiber may be defined but without limitation as a waveguide medium used to transmit information via light impulses rather than through the movement of electrons. The preferred optical fiber is a multimode optical fiber transmitting in the about 800 to about 1600 nm range. The coated end face surface may be defined but without limitation as a polished plane that is a reflective thin film material.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to a certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

