---

title: Medical electrical lead
abstract: A medical device lead. The lead includes one or more jacketed conductive elements. The jacket comprises one or more covers. A first cover of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) is in direct contact with the at least one conductive element. The at least one conductive element and the PTFE cover are coiled. The coiled conductive element can substantially retain its original coiled shape.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09402989&OS=09402989&RS=09402989
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 09402989
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080915
---
The present application claims priority and other benefits from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 973 479 filed Sep. 19 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The present application also claims priority and other benefits from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 972 114 filed Sep. 13 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure relates to implantable medical devices and more particularly to implantable medical leads.

The human anatomy includes many types of tissues that can either voluntarily or involuntarily perform certain functions. After disease injury or natural defects certain tissues may no longer operate within general anatomical norms. For example after disease injury time or combinations thereof the heart muscle may begin to experience certain failures or deficiencies. Certain failures or deficiencies can be corrected or treated with implantable medical devices IMDs such as implantable pacemakers implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD devices cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator devices or combinations thereof.

IMDs detect and deliver therapy for a variety of medical conditions in patients. IMDs include implantable pulse generators IPGs or implantable cardioverter defibrillators ICDs that deliver electrical stimuli to tissue of a patient. ICDs typically comprise inter alia a control module a capacitor and a battery that are housed in a hermetically sealed container with a lead extending therefrom. It is generally known that the hermetically sealed container can be implanted in a selected portion of the anatomical structure such as in a chest or abdominal wall and the lead can be inserted through various venous portions so that the tip portion can be positioned at the selected position near or in the muscle group. When therapy is required by a patient the control module signals the battery to charge the capacitor which in turn discharges electrical stimuli to tissue of a patient through via electrodes disposed on the lead e.g. typically near the distal end of the lead. Typically a medical electrical lead includes a flexible elongated body with one or more insulated elongated conductors. Each conductor electrically couples a sensing and or a stimulation electrode of the lead to the control module through a connector module. It is desirable to develop implantable medical electrical leads with new lead body subassemblies.

The present disclosure relates to a medical electrical lead that includes a lead body. The lead body comprises at least one elongated conductive element such as a cable surrounded by an elongated jacket. The jacket can include one or more covers. The jacket can be formed through an extrusion process directly over the conductive element which reduces or eliminates diametrical expansion of the coiled conductive element which can occur due to elastic springback or stress relaxation of the coiled composite structure. A first cover comprises ethylene tetraflouroethylene ETFE extruded directly over the conductive element. In one embodiment the conductive element and the jacket is then formed into a coil.

In one embodiment the PEEK undergoes a molecular mobility process prior to or during introduction of the ETFE over an elongated conductive element. Exemplary molecular mobility processes can include thermal annealing stress relieving or other suitable means for a material to achieve a more flexible molecular structure.

Thermal processing can involve exposing the composite structure to a controlled heating and cooling schedule. Suitable temperatures can depend upon the type of polymeric material and or number of covers or layer s employed to form a jacket a composite jacket or one or more longitudinal elements that can house conductive elements. ETFE for example can be thermally processed at about 130 200 degrees Celsius C. . Thermal processing of ETFE onto an elongated conductive element causes the conductive element to substantially maintain a controlled pitch and diameter after coiling. For example a conductive element such as a cable in a coil shape can substantially maintain up to about 99 percent of its original coil shape after the conductive element has been released from for example a mandrel which is after a thermal processing has been performed. The final diameter and pitch of a coil shape is generally based upon the coil composite structure and its elastic springback or coil expansion from stress relaxation the winding diameter pitch and the processing parameters used to set the coil shape. In one embodiment a coiled cable is more resistant to flex fatigue compared to a linear or straight cable. Additionally smaller coiled cable diameters are achieved through application of the principles described herein. In one embodiment about 10 percent or more of a diameter reduction in the coiled conductive element is achieved through the principles described herein. In another embodiment about 5 percent or more diameter reduction is achieved in the coiled conductive element through the principles described herein. In still yet another embodiment about 2 percent or more diameter reduction is achieved in the coiled conductive element through the principles described herein. Smaller coiled cable diameters allow for smaller sized leads to be produced. Smaller sized leads can include 7 French or smaller. In another embodiment smaller sized leads can include 6 French or smaller. In still yet another embodiment smaller sized leads can include 5 French or smaller.

The principles described herein are applicable to all types of medical electrical leads. For example the disclosure applies to cardiovascular leads e.g. high voltage leads low voltage leads etc. neurological leads or other suitable applications.

Electrically conductive elements can include coils wires coil wound around a filament cables conductors or other suitable members. Conductive elements can comprise platinum platinum alloys titanium titanium alloys tantalum tantalum alloys cobalt alloys e.g. MP35N a nickel cobalt alloy etc. copper alloys silver alloys gold silver stainless steel magnesium nickel alloys palladium palladium alloys or other suitable materials. Electrically conductive element is covered or substantially covered longitudinally with a jacket also referred to as a liner a longitudinal element a longitudinal member a coating a tubular element a tube or a cylindrical element . In yet another embodiment each conductive element is surrounded by a tubular element which can possess a circular or a non circular cross section. An outercover or outerjacket in a lead body can exhibit a non circular cross section.

Typically the outer surface of electrodes such as the ring electrode the tip electrode and the defibrillation coils are exposed or not covered by a jacket or liner so that electrodes can sense and or deliver electrical stimuli to tissue of a patient. A sharpened distal tip not shown of tip electrode facilitates fixation of the distal end of helically shaped tip electrode into tissue of a patient.

Referring to lead body can include one or more jackets and one or more conductive elements . In one embodiment lead body comprises one or more jackets disposed in another jacket . In still yet another embodiment lead body comprises one or more jackets with an outer cover that surrounds the one or more jackets .

Each jacket can include one or more covers as depicted in with cross sectional segment . Each cover and can comprise one or more layers of polymeric compounds. Numerous embodiments of jacket or liner are summarized in Table 1 and described in greater detail below. The first embodiment listed in Table 1 involves a single cover or first cover of PEEK such that the inner lumen of first cover is adjacent to a conductive element a delivery device not shown such as a guide wire or stylet or a lumen without a delivery device or a conductive element such as a conductor coil. PEEK is commercially available as Optima from Invibio located in Lancashire United Kingdom. The first cover of PEEK can be formed in a variety of ways. In one embodiment the single cover or first cover of PEEK may be introduced or applied directly over a conductive element through extrusion. Extrusion is the process of forming a continuous shape by applying force to a material through a die. Polymer extrusion is described for example in Chris Rauwendaal pp. 1 30 155 205 4ed. 2001 which is incorporated by reference in relevant part. Generally the polymeric material is heated in a barrel of the extruder until it attains or exceeds its melt temperature. Thereafter the polymeric material is simultaneously extruded through a die of the extruder over the conductive element while the conductive element continues to move away from the extruder and or the conductive element moves radially. The polymeric material then forms into a first cover also referred to as first longitudinal element over the conductive element . After formation of first cover the polymeric material is allowed to cool. There are numerous ways to cool the polymeric material. For example the first cover can be air cooled which is a slow cooling process. Alternatively the first cover can be placed in a cool water bath. In yet another embodiment the first cover and the conductive element can be placed into a cooler such as a refrigeration unit to quickly cool the polymeric material. The process of extruding polymeric material and allowing the polymeric material applies to each embodiment listed below.

The cover of PEEK can have a thickness of about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches. In another embodiment the cover of extruded PEEK can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.0012 inches. In yet another embodiment the cover of PEEK has a thickness of about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0020 inches. The PEEK in combination with the conductive element forms a composite structure.

The composite structure is then formed into a coil shape. In one embodiment the composite structure is formed into a coil through for example winding the conductive element over a mandrel a cylindrically shaped element exemplarily depicted in . In particular the mandrel can be a high tensile strength wire that is held under tension i.e. both ends of the mandrel are clamped while the filars of the coil are wound around the diameter of the mandrel . While the mandrel continues to rotate or move radially filars of the coil are being wound or served around mandrel . The filars are simultaneously translated along mandrel while being wound about mandrel . An exemplary amount of winding tension applied is about 15 grams however it is appreciated that other amounts of winding tensions can be used The amount of tension used can depend upon the geometry and or the mechanical characteristics e.g. break load or strength of the cable filars yield strength of the cable filars etc. of the cable filars that are to be formed. Coil winding equipment is commercially available from Accuwinder Engineering Company located in San Dimas Calif.

The coiled conductive element can be mechanically constrained to minimize or eliminate diametrical and or axial expansion of the coiled conductive element . Exemplary methods for mechanically constraining the conductive element can include clamping or bonding the proximal and distal ends of to a mandrel or other suitable fixture or component. The clamp s or clamp mechanism s can mechanically constrain or secure the coiled conductive element against the mandrel as depicted for example in such that coiled conductive element will not rotate or expand diametrically and or axially. Exemplary clamping mechanisms can take the form of a mechanical clamp toggle s or heat shrink tubing s . The clamping mechanism can mechanically constrain the coil conductive element on the mandrel and hold the coiled conductive element in place during subsequent operations.

In one embodiment after the extrusion coating process and the coiling process no thermal processing is performed on the coiled conductive element . In another embodiment after the extrusion coating process and the coiling process thermal processing is performed on the coiled conductive element . In still yet another embodiment after the extrusion coating process thermal processing is performed on the conductive element which is thereafter followed by a coiling process to coil the conductive element . In yet another embodiment after the extrusion coating process the coiled conductive element is thermal processed and can then undergo a coiling process. After coiling process the coiled conductive element undergoes a second thermal process.

The composite structure can then undergo a thermal process however it is appreciated that a thermal process may be unnecessary to form for example a coiled cable assembly. In one embodiment the composite structure is placed or run through a chamber. For example a chamber or oven commercially available from Despatch Industries Minneapolis Minn. can be used to process the composite structure. In one embodiment the temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. In one embodiment the temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. The composite structure remains at this temperature for about 30 seconds to about 45 minutes and then is cooled to form the ETFE polymeric material and conductive element in its coiled shape. The mechanical constraint is then removed such as through de clamping or cutting the proximal and distal ends of the conductive element from the mandrel.

The first embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first cover . First cover of ethylene tetrafluoroethylene ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.003 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first cover over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The second embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first and second covers . First cover of ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.003 inches. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of ETFE is formed by extruding the ETFE over a conductive element . After the first cover of ETFE has been formed a second cover of ETFE is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first and second covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The third embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first second and third covers . First cover of ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of ETFE is formed by extruding the ETFE over a conductive element . After the first cover of ETFE has been formed a second cover of ETFE is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A third cover of ETFE is introduced over the second cover in which the third cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first second and third covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The fourth embodiment listed in Table 1 involves a first cover of ETFE followed by a second cover of fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP . First cover of ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. After the first cover of ETFE has been formed a second cover of FEP is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. In another embodiment second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.003 inches. The composite structure comprised of the first and second covers over the conductive element is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained.

Thereafter the composite structure undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber as previously described. The temperature of the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket over conductive element after which time the mechanical constraint is removed.

The fifth embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first second and third covers . First cover of ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of ETFE is formed by extruding the ETFE over a conductive element . After the first cover of ETFE has been formed a second cover of ETFE is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A third cover of FEP is introduced over the second cover in which the third cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first second and third covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The sixth embodiment listed in Table 1 involves a first cover of ETFE followed by a second cover of FEP. First cover of ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. After the first cover of ETFE has been formed a second cover of perfluoroalkoxy PFA is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. In another embodiment second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.003 inches. The composite structure comprised of the first and second covers over the conductive element is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained.

Thereafter the composite structure undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber as previously described. The temperature of the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket over conductive element after which time the mechanical constraint is removed.

The seventh embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first second and third covers . First cover of ETFE can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of ETFE is formed by extruding the ETFE over a conductive element . After the first cover of ETFE has been formed a second cover of ETFE is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A third cover of PFA is introduced over the second cover in which the third cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first second and third covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The eighth embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first cover . First cover of polyflourotetraethylene PTFE such as PTFE extruded and nonporous can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded ETFE. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.003 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first cover over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The ninth embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first and second covers . First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of extruded PTFE extruded and nonporous . Unlike other polymers PTFE is not melt processable. Fully dense or non porous PTFE can be produced via a paste extrusion process. With this process a very fine PTFE resin is mixed with a hydrocarbon extrusion aid e.g. mineral spirits etc. and compressed to form a billet called a preform which is ram extruded at high pressures. The resulting extruded form is then thermally treated to remove the extrusion aid and sinter the fine particles of PTFE together.

In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.003 inches. In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is formed by extruding the PTFE extruded and nonporous over a conductive element . After the first cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous has been formed a second cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first and second covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The tenth embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first second and third covers . First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of PTFE extruded and nonporous . In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is formed by extruding the PTFE extruded and nonporous over a conductive element . After the first cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous has been formed a second cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A third cover of fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP is introduced over the second cover in which the third cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first second and third covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The eleventh embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first second and third covers . First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of PTFE extruded and nonporous . In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is formed by extruding the PTFE extruded and nonporous over a conductive element . After the first cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous has been formed a second cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A third cover of PFA is introduced over the second cover in which the third cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first second and third covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The tenth embodiment listed in Table 1 relates to a jacket formed of a first second and third covers . First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.0005 inches to about 0.0015 inches of PTFE extruded and nonporous . In another embodiment first cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. First cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is formed by extruding the PTFE extruded and nonporous over a conductive element . After the first cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous has been formed a second cover of PTFE extruded and nonporous is introduced over the first cover . Second cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A third cover of ethylene tetraflouroethylene based copolymer EFEP is introduced over the second cover in which the third cover can possess a thickness that ranges from about 0.00020 inches to about 0.001 inches. A composite structure is composed of the first second and third covers respectively over the conductive element . The composite structure is formed into a coil shape and then mechanically constrained as previously described.

The composite structure then undergoes thermal annealing or stress relieving in a chamber. The temperature in the chamber is about 130 C. to about 210 C. for about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes to allow the polymeric material to form jacket around conductive element . Thereafter the mechanical constraint is removed.

The insulated conductive element formed through jacket over conductive element can be helically wrapped around a mandrel not shown . After winding the insulated cable onto the mandrel and mechanically restraining this composite structure the polymeric material over the conductive element e.g. cable etc. can be annealed to minimize springback and allow the conductive element e.g. cable etc. to retain its coiled shape. After being removed from the mandrel the conductive element e.g. cable etc. retains its coiled shape.

Insulated conductive element is depicted in . Insulated conductive element includes a conductive element i.e. cable coiled cable etc. with a thin polymeric material or cover that has been thermally processed e.g. annealed etc. to conductive element . Polymeric material comprises a first and second covers . Conductive element has an outer diameter of about 0.09 inches or less. In one embodiment conductive element can be a 1 19 cable construction with filaments composed of MP35N Ag core.

Referring to an insulated conductive element is depicted that comprises a set of conductors i.e. three conductors and an insulative layer or cover . Conductive element such as a 1 19 cable MP35N Ag core and has an outer diameter of about 0.055 inches. Insulative layer comprises a layer of PEEK and a layer of ETFE. In one embodiment each layer of PEEK and ETFE is about 0.0008 inches or less. In another embodiment each layer of PEEK and ETFE is about 0.002 inches or less.

Referring to insulated conductive element comprises a set of conductors i.e. five conductors and an insulative layer or cover . Conductive element has an outer diameter of about 0.060 inches and is a 1 19 cable. Insulative layer comprises a layer of PEEK and a layer of ETFE. In one embodiment each layer of PEEK and ETFE is about 0.0008 inches or less. In another embodiment each layer of PEEK and ETFE is about 0.002 inches or less.

Referring to jacketed conductive element is shown as retaining its coiled shape despite being stretched. Conductive element comprises a 1 19 cable construction with filaments composed of MP35N Ag core with an insulative or jacketed layer coating or cover. The insulative layer comprises a layer of PEEK and a layer of ETFE. In one embodiment each layer of PEEK and ETFE is about 0.0008 inches or less. In one embodiment each layer of PEEK and ETFE is about 0.002 inches or less. Referring to insulated conductive element is depicted in a relaxed position over a mandrel. While over the mandrel conductive element is thermally annealed. Referring to insulated conductive element is depicted in a stretched position. Thereafter insulated conductive element moves to a relaxed position after being stretched . The insulated conductive element retains 99 or more of its original coiled shape. In another embodiment insulated conductive element comprises 95 or more of its original coiled shape.

Referring to insulated conductive element is helically wrapped around a coil liner . Insulated conductive element comprises a set of jacketed conductors i.e. five conductors cable coil . Referring to insulated conductive element is helically wrapped around a mandrel . Insulated conductive element comprises a set of conductors i.e. five conductors and an insulative layer or cover.

At block the counter X is incremented by adding 1 to the previous value of X. At block a determination is made as to whether a sufficient number of polymer covers have been formed over the conductive element. In this embodiment a determination is made as to whether X N where N equals the number of pre selected covers to be added to the conductive element. If X does not equal N the process control returns to block to extrude the same or different polymer over the previous polymer cover. If x does equal N then the process goes to block where the jacketed conductive element undergoes coiling as previously described. If x does not equal N the process returns to introducing another polymeric cover over the conductive element . If x does equal N no additional polymer covers are introduced over the conductive element . At block the jacketed conductive element is formed into a coil. At block the coiled jacketed conductive element can undergo an optional thermal process. If the method is implemented on a computer the number of polymeric covers formed over the conductive element and or the types of polymeric material used for each cover can be displayed on a graphical user interface of a computer. The computer implemented instructions are executed on a processor of a computer.

Co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 211 093 entitled MEDICAL ELECTRICAL LEAD filed by Gregory A. Boser and Kevin R. Seifert and assigned to the same Assignee as the present invention. This co pending application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 211 065 entitled MEDICAL ELECTRICAL LEAD filed by Gregory A. Boser and Kevin R. Seifert and assigned to the same Assignee as the present invention. This co pending application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 211 092 entitled MEDICAL ELECTRICAL LEAD filed by Gregory A. Boser and Kevin R. Seifert and assigned to the same Assignee as the present invention. This co pending application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and thus variations that do not depart from the gist of the invention are intended to be within the scope of the invention. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention.

