---

title: Parachute opening and shock emulator
abstract: A parachute opening shock emulator including a seat structure and a catching mechanism. The seat structure includes a seat for holding a manikin, the seat is movable such that the manikin can be pulled from the seat simulating the parachute opening shock phase of an ejection. The catching mechanism is for catching the manikin after it is pulled from the seat.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07819031&OS=07819031&RS=07819031
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07819031
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080327
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a parachute opening shock emulator. More specifically but without limitation the present invention is an ejection seat simulator that simulates the parachute opening shock phase of an ejection.

Aviators and or aircrew may have to eject from an aircraft especially in combat situations at high speed and or in adverse conditions. High speed ejection can be characterized by several phases. High speed ejection phases include initiation catapult under seat rocket motor drogue stabilization parachute opening and parachute landing. Each of these phases has inherent dangers and is capable of resulting in injury to the aircrew member. Typically expensive component and system level testing is conducted on escape and man mounted equipment systems to try to improve performance and to identify and mitigate safety risks to the aircrew member during high speed ejection. Under many ejection conditions the most hazardous phase to the aircrew member is parachute opening shock. It is during this time that the aircrew member is rapidly separated from the relative protection of the aircraft and the aircraft seat. Currently this event may only be examined during system level testing that is highly chaotic difficult to obtain adequate data and video and very costly. Due to the unpredictable nature of such testing manikins have recorded large variations in measured accelerations and neck and head loads even when attempting to regulate such variables. Currently there is no system capable of reproducing the parachute opening shock phase repeatably in a controlled and cost effective manner.

With the expansion of the military aviator and aircrew population to include smaller males and females an unknown level of risk has been introduced into high speed ejections. Additionally helmets have changed to include night vision capabilities head up displays and target acquisition devices. The effect of these systems increases head supported weight and shifts the center of gravity of the head region forward a weaker condition for the neck physiologically. In order to quantitatively determine the overall effects on system performance and occupant safety extensive system level testing is required.

During ejection there is an abrupt deceleration of the body during line stretch and inflation of the aircrew s personal parachute. Peak acceleration during this phase is a function of aircrew mass properties barometric and dynamic pressures recovery parachute type drag area and opening aids. Examples of opening aids include spreader guns and pull down vent lines which decrease the time it takes to open a parachute and thus increase the resultant acceleration on the aircrew member. Lighter aircrew typically experience higher snatch forces and opening shocks due to their lesser mass. Depending on their initial position of the body the linear and angular deceleration may be aggravated as the body is twisted and pulled into alignment with the parachute s opening vector. Additionally currently used human tolerance limits for torso accelerations were derived specifically for the automotive industry. These tests were performed with subjects such as humans and primates in rigid seats with rigid head rests and specific restraint systems. This data has limited application to parachute opening shock in which the body is completely unrestrained and loading may be applied in any direction.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for a system capable of reproducing the parachute opening shock phase repeatedly regardless of other conditions.

The present invention is directed to a parachute opening shock emulator that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a parachute opening shock emulator which includes a seat structure and a catching mechanism. The seat structure includes a seat for holding a manikin and the seat is movable such that the manikin can be pulled from the seat simulating the parachute opening shock phase of an ejection. After being pulled the manikin is caught by the catching mechanism.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a parachute opening shock emulator that provides a highly repeatable method of replicating parachute opening shock.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a parachute opening shock emulator that enables comprehensive analysis spanning the entire ejection airspeed envelope at a much lower cost and in a more controlled environment.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . The parachute opening shock emulator includes a seat structure and a catching mechanism . The seat structure includes a seat for holding a manikin and the seat is movable such that the manikin can be pulled from the seat such that the seat manikin separation simulates the parachute opening shock phase of an ejection and the manikin is caught by the catching mechanism .

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military aircraft environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a large mass being rapidly accelerated from a stationary position.

The seat structure may include a seat and a frame . The seat is rotatably attached to the frame such that the seat may pivot and or rotate and be pinned to a desired pitch orientation in relation to the frame .

As shown in in one of the embodiments of the seat the seat is shaped like a standard type aircraft seat specifically a military pilot aircraft seat. The seat includes an adjustable head box a pivot bar and a counter balance undercarriage with counter balance weights . The pivot bar is movable and may be bolted in various locations along the bottom of the seat or seat pan area where aircrew member sits . The pivot bar is used to replicate the kinematics of the force reaction mass during decoupling of the manikin and the seat . The counter balance weights are used to shift the center of gravity of the seat to the center of the pivot bar . The counter balance weights may be disposed on the bottom of the seat . The counter balance weights can be moved to different locations along the counter balance undercarriage . The counter balance undercarriage may be disposed under the seat and may include one or more undercarriage bars A as shown in and the counter balance weights may be moved along locations of the undercarriage bars A. The counter balance weights may be a combination of weights or as shown in a weight bar with two weights disposed on opposite ends of the weight bar . The counter balance weights may also include a pin attachment apparatus and the counter weight undercarriage particularly each undercarriage bar A may include counter weight bar holes A. The pin attachment apparatus may communicate with the counter weight bar holes A such that the counter weights may be moved along the counter balance undercarriage or undercarriage bar A and then attached via the counter weight bar holes A and pin attachment apparatus . If there are multiple undercarriage bars A there may be multiple pin attachment apparatuses that correspond to each undercarriage bar A. In the preferred embodiment the undercarriage bars A are substantially parallel to each other. The seat is pinned to the desired pitch orientation and the pivot bar location and the counter balance weights are adjusted according to pre calculated measurements.

As shown in the frame may be an A frame type structure. The frame may include two substantially parallel A sections and a cross bar . The A sections may each include two side bars A connected at each others ends at an oblique angle creating an A section apex C and an A section cross bar B. The A section cross bar B is disposed below the A section apex C and is connected to both side bars A. In the preferred embodiment the cross bar B is substantially parallel with the ground. The A sections may be disposed and attached at the opposite ends of the cross bar . As shown in each end of the cross bar may be attached to a corresponding side bar A of each of the A sections . The A sections may also include several supporting sections or supporting beams or bars in addition to the A section cross bar B. On top of the supporting beam s ballast weights may be placed. At the end of each A section side bar A opposite from the A section apex C there are feet . The ballast weights on each side of the frame and the feet keep the frame securely placed during testing. The feet also aid in absorbing the energy transmitted by the frame during testing. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the feet are manufactured from sorbothane however any type of material deemed practicable may be utilized. Each A section may include a seat bar which is disposed at the A section apex C of the A section . At one end of the seat bar the seat bar communicates with the apex of the A section while at the other end a platform is disposed. Each seat bar is disposed such that both seat bars are substantially axially aligned. The seat may be in communication with each of the platforms particularly the pivot bar may be rotatably communicating with each platform . The frame is designed to be stationary however the frame may also include pneumatically driven casters that can be lowered such that the frame can be easily moved the casters communicating with the floor or lifted such the casters are not touching the floor and cannot easily be moved along the floor especially during testing.

The frame may be manufactured from an aluminum alloy. The preferred material is 6061T6 aluminum however any material deemed practicable may be utilized.

The catching mechanism may be a net . As shown in the catching mechanism may include a net and a net frame . The net may be mounted on the net frame and disposed at an appropriate position to catch the manikin as it is being pulled from the seat . The net may be nylon webbing used in conjunction with seat belt adjusters. The net frame may be manufactured from an aluminum alloy or any other material practicable.

As shown in the manikin may also be attached to back up webbing which is attached to a solenoid and a Mobile Aircrew Restraint System MARS . The solenoid can retract the slack to the back up webbing such that the manikin does not exceed the vertical height of the catching mechanism particularly the net . A Mobile Aircrew Restraint System is typically defined but without limitation as a restraint system that is characteristically used to prevent a gunner or a crew member from falling out of an aircraft but still allow the crew member to move around the inside of the aircraft. The solenoid in conjunction with the Mobile Aircrew Restraint System via a solenoid controller and a computer configuration controls the timed retraction of the back up webbing . The manikin may also be attached to a parachute riser rope to ensure the manikin is pulled toward the net as well as caught by the net .

In the preferred embodiment as shown in the parachute riser may be communicating with a load cell which is communicating with an A D board and a computer that analyzes the load via the load cell in real time and sends a signal to the A D board and a relay switch which communicates with the solenoid controller which activates the solenoid .

The parachute opening shock emulator may also include a horizontal accelerator . A horizontal accelerator may be defined but without limitation as an apparatus that can make an object move along a track at various speeds and can be used to create acceleration forces and pulse shapes typically seen in crashes and other types of accelerated environments. The horizontal accelerator may include a sled track which includes two substantially parallel rails and a hydraulically controlled linear actuator to move and or accelerate the objects along the track. The preferred horizontal accelerator operates at a 50 G maximum acceleration with a 5 000 pound maximum payload at 20 G s. The catching mechanism may rest on or be attached to a sled that moves along the tracks . In the preferred embodiment the controlled linear actuator couples to the front of the sled and pushes the sled along with the catching mechanism away from the seat structure . The A sections of the frame may straddle the rails of the sled track . In the preferred embodiment the distance between the A sections is greater than the width of the catching structure as well the distance between the rails of the sled track .

In operation of one of the embodiments the manikin is lowered into the seat typically through use of an overhead crane. The location of the frame relative to the catching mechanism is dependent upon the position of the seat . The casters of the frame are lowered can be done by shop air to position the frame . Once the frame is properly positioned the casters are raised and the frame is now stationary on the ground. Parachute rise ropes particularly dynamic climbing ropes are connected to a torso harness on the manikin . The parachute riser ropes are routed over the A frame where they are tied to the floor of the sled and communicating with the load cell . As shown in the parachute riser ropes may be directed toward the floor by a low friction cylinder or pulley type system. The catching mechanism is communicating with the horizontal accelerator such that the catching mechanism can be moved along the rails of the horizontal accelerator at various speeds. The horizontal accelerator is engaged and pushes the sled . The sled along with the catching mechanism moves away from the seat structure pulling the manikin toward and to the net . During this time frame loads accelerations and high speed video are taken to be analyzed in order to study parachute opening shock.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

