---

title: Hermetically packaged MEMS G-switch
abstract: A hermetically packaged G-switch includes a MEMS structure having a bottom substrate layer, a top device layer and an intermediate oxide layer. A mass disposed in the top device layer is connected to one, two or three anchor portions using spring arms. One end of a spring arm is connected to the mass and another end to an anchor portion. The connection to the anchor portion includes a T shaped arrangement, which has a torsional spring cross piece connected to the spring arm. A cap containing a conductive pad is hermetically sealed to the MEMS structure. When a predetermined acceleration is attained, the mass makes electrical contact with the conductive pad to close the G-switch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07956302&OS=07956302&RS=07956302
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07956302
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080116
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates in general to acceleration sensors and in particular to MEMS type acceleration sensors.

Acceleration sensors and switches are used in various commercial and military applications for example projectiles that carry explosives. Acceleration sensors that close an electrical circuit upon impact of a projectile are often called impact sensors or G switches Gravity switches or PD point detonating switches. Micro electro mechanical systems MEMS are used in the fuzes and safe and arm systems of some projectiles. MEMS devices are small lightweight accurate reliable and often cheaper than conventional devices. The MEMS G switches shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 737 979 and 6 619 123 move only in the plane of the substrate and are not able to filter out large cross axis accelerations that may be induced by spin.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 765 160 and 7 038 150 show MEMS type acceleration switches designed for movement out of the plane of the substrate. As these devices use folded springs to support the mass the mass is also able to move in the plane of the substrate which can lead to binding of the mass during spinning of the projectile. In addition the mass has a relatively large surface area that contacts the contact pad resulting in high contact resistance and switch bounce. Furthermore the device in U.S. Pat. No. 7 038 150 uses a mass that is 8 to 300 times thicker than the springs thereby complicating the manufacturing process.

Another object is to provide a MEMS type G switch that is exceptionally small and will operate during high spin rates.

A MEMS G switch structure is provided having a bottom substrate layer a top device layer and an intermediate oxide layer joining the bottom and top layers. At least one anchor portion is defined in the device layer. The device layer includes a mass moveable out of the plane of the device layer and at least one spring arm having a first end connected to the mass and a second end connected to the anchor portion. The connection of the spring arm to the anchor portion includes a T arrangement having a torsional spring cross piece connected to the second end of the spring arm to provide for greater flexibility of the mass and spring arm. A cap is provided with the cap being hermetically sealed to the MEMS structure. The cap includes a conductive pad and the top of the mass also includes a conductive pad which engages the conductive pad of the cap when a predetermined acceleration of the switch is attained.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the exemplary embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention comprises a MEMS type acceleration switch. In some embodiments the switch is non latching. One of many exemplary applications for the invention is an impact detection sensor in a 25 mm ordnance round.

The device layer includes a moveable mass connected to an anchor portion by means of a spring arm . Also included in the device layer are a feedthrough pad and a seal portion . The substrate includes a first spaced apart cavity and a second spaced apart cavity which are both filled with electrically conductive materials and respectively.

An electrically conductive layer is applied to various portions of the device. More particularly the bottom of substrate includes a first electrically conductive layer and a second electrically conductive layer which are both attached to a base such as circuit board . Electrically conductive layers and which are in the same plane on the circuit board form electrical extensions of the electrically conductive layers and respectively. In an exemplary embodiment these electrically conductive layers may be comprised of a thin adhesion layer such as chromium or the like on which is deposited a thicker layer of gold.

The device layer has an electrically conductive layer around the periphery thereof and the cap has a similar layer on the peripheral ridge . These two electrically conductive layers form a hermetic seal for switch . Electrically conductive layer is applied to the undersurface of cap wafer and includes a conductive pad portion on the ceiling of cavity . Conductive pad makes electrical contact with electrically conductive layer on top of mass when the switch is in a closed position as in . To ensure good adhesion of the conductive material and in cavities and these cavities are lined with electrically conductive layers and respectively.

When the ordnance round in which the switch is located strikes a target the mass attains a predetermined acceleration and moves from the position illustrated in to that of to complete an electrical circuit. The current flow path includes electrically conductive layer electrically conductive layer conductive material feedthrough pad electrically conductive layer conductive pad conductive pad mass spring arm anchor portion conductive material electrically conductive layer and electrically conductive layer or vice versa.

In an exemplary embodiment the switch may be formed by a DRIE deep reactive ion etching process that removes unwanted portions of layer and substrate . The DRIE process is a well developed micromachining process used extensively with MEMS devices and in particular silicon based MEMS devices. For this reason in an exemplary embodiment silicon is a material for the switch of the present invention although other materials are possible.

To operate as a switch the mass and spring arm must be free to move and therefore must be free of any underlying silicon dioxide insulating layer . One way to accomplish the removal of the underlying insulating layer and as illustrated in is by applying an etchant such as hydrofluoric acid which will dissolve the silicon dioxide. To shorten the time for dissolving the silicon dioxide under mass and as will be subsequently illustrated the mass is provided with a series of apertures which extend from the top surface down to the insulating layer thereby allowing the etchant direct access to the silicon substrate. Although some of the etchant dissolves the insulation under the seal portion feedthrough pad and anchor portion the process of freeing the mass is completed before these components are completely freed so that they remain immovable.

In the electrically conductive layers and are applied to the feedthrough pad and mass respectively and in the remainder of the electrically conductive layers and are applied to the bottom of substrate and to the interior of both the first cavity and the second cavity . Switch is one of a multitude of similar switches fabricated on the same wafer with all of the switches being separated after fabrication for use as individual switches.

The fabrication of the cap is illustrated in . As illustrated in the fabrication starts with a wafer of a material such as Pyrex or silicon conductive or non conductive by way of example which may have a thickness of about 300 m. In the wafer is etched down around 10 m to form cavity . The electrically conductive layer deposition is illustrated in and includes electrically conductive layers which are bonded with electrically conductive layer to form the hermetic seal and electrically conductive layer . The caps may be formed on a wafer containing a multitude of such caps and then bonded to the wafer containing the multitude of structures illustrated in resulting in the packaging of hundreds of switches which may then be separated for individual use.

Extending from the back on either side of mass are first contact arm and second contact arm at the ends of which are respective contact points and . When the switch is accelerated sufficiently to move the mass toward the contact pad and as illustrated in the contact points and will touch the contact pad prior to the mass . With this arrangement the contact points establish a very low resistance which is maintained even after the mass engages the contact pad . Further the arrangement reduces if not eliminates any contact bounce.

Referring once again to the device layer in an exemplary embodiment is composed of an electrically conducting silicon. Accordingly a series of grooves extending down to the oxide layer is provided to maintain electrical isolation among the various components.

The mass includes four contact arms. First contact arm and second contact arm are connected to a first end of mass and have respective contact points and at the ends thereof. A third contact arm and a fourth contact arm have respective contact points and for the purpose previously stated and the third contact arm and the fourth contact arm are connected to a second end of mass . These contact arms and are connected to the ends of mass by means of respective torsional springs and . These torsional springs allow the contact arms to rotate out of the plane of the mass as opposed to the embodiment of where the arms remain in the plane of the mass .

SOI structure in an exemplary embodiment of includes a device layer from which is formed the apertured mass and which includes electrical isolation grooves . The mass has two spring arms and connected to respective anchor portions and . The spring arm connection is via T arrangements and which include respective torsional springs and to provide flexure to the structure.

Additional flexure is provided by the connection of the mass to the spring arms and . More particularly mass is connected to spring arm by means of a folded or serpentine that is S shaped spring and is connected to spring arm by means of folded or serpentine that is S shaped spring .

There has been described a G switch which responds to a relatively low impact acceleration while undergoing several hundred or thousand lateral Gs from the spinning round in which it is mounted. Although the invention has been described with respect to use in an ordnance round it may be used in other embodiments. For example the device is a low power alternative to accelerometers and may be used in sports helmets and the shipping industry by way of example.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

