---

title: Electrically conductive and anti-corrosive coating, a method for preparing the same and an article coated with the same
abstract: The present invention relates to a coating composition having excellent electro-conductivity and corrosion resistance, a method of preparing the coating composition, and an article coated with the coating composition. More particularly, the present invention relates to a coating composition having excellent surface electro-conductivity and corrosion resistance, comprising: one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin, an epoxy resin, a polyurethane resin, an acrylic resin, a polyolefin resin, a fluorine resin, a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin; a melamine-based curing agent; one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes; metal powder; and organo clay, a method of preparing the coating composition, and an article coated with the coating composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08329313&OS=08329313&RS=08329313
owner: Korea Institute of Industrial Technology
number: 08329313
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081223
---
The present invention relates to a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance a method of preparing the coating composition and an article coated with the coating composition. More particularly the present invention relates to a coating composition having excellent surface electro conductivity and corrosion resistance comprising one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin a melamine based curing agent one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes metal powder and organo clay a method of preparing the coating composition and an article coated with the coating composition.

Generally polymer materials are widely used in space aviation industries automobile industries construction industries and household appliance industries and the like because they have high strength and hardness excellent durability and formability in spite of low density and weight. With the advancement of industry demands for the polymer materials are increasing and thus conventional industrial materials are being replaced by the polymer materials. Since a polymer is a typical insulator research into a polymer composite material having excellent electro conductivity is being made in various directions.

An electro conductive polymer composite material which is formed by adding an electro conductive filler to a polymer resin is a highly functional material which can replace metals because it is lighter and more flexible than them. Further the electro conductive polymer composite material is frequently used as a thermal interface material TIM requiring low electric resistance and dielectric constant because its formation of thermal and electrical conductive networks is feasible and material properties can be easily adjusted according to the shape and amount of a filler.

Electromagnetic radiation comes from natural or artificial sources. The natural sources include lightning sunspots auroras and the like and the artificial sources include all digital electronic equipment including integrated circuits microprocessors timers and the like. That is electromagnetic radiation is caused by an induced current formed on a conductor. Electronic parts malfunction because they confuse this induced current with a normal current and such a phenomenon is called electromagnetic interference EMI . EMI shielding reduce the electromagnetic interference EMI by reflecting or absorbing electromagnetic waves by using electronic parts made of conductive materials or coating the electronic parts with the conductive materials. A coating process for shielding the electromagnetic interference EMI can be used for coating whole equipments electronic circuits and devices respectively. An electrostatic dissipation ESD coating process is well known to be used to treat electronic parts. For example the electrostatic dissipation ESD coating process is applied to a disk drive head. This disk drive head depends on giant megnetoresistive effect GMR and is configured to be easily broken by electrostatic sparks. As the speed of a disk drive increases electrostatic dissipation ESD is more strongly required. In the electrostatic dissipation ESD coating process an electro conductive additive must be sufficiently dissipated exact conductivity must be realized and sloughing must not occur. The electrostatic dissipation ESD coating process is frequently used even in the field of packaging. It is quite possible for an ESD market in which carbon nanotubes are used as an electro conductive additive to be enlarged according to the expansion of the disk drive market. In particular as computers miniaturize it is expected that the ESD market will become larger.

A steel sheet which is surface treated with a polymer coating material is frequently used as a structural member such as a electronic equipment a household appliance a case of an OA device sash frame and the like. Hence Japanese steel manufacturers are developing a coating agent for a steel sheet including a conductive additive and a heat dissipative additive. However when a heat dissipative additive such as carbon black and a conductive additive such as metal powder which are currently used mainly are dispersed in a polymer coating resin the corrosion resistance of the steel sheet becomes poor. Therefore it is a very important task to impart corrosion resistance to a steel sheet.

Recently as electronic appliances are more highly functionalized and miniaturized the internal temperature of the electronic appliance is increased by the heat generated therein so that devices installed therein such as ICs CPUs components and the like may break down and the lifespan of the electronic appliance may be decreased. Therefore in the electronics industry it is very imminent to discharge heat to the outside of the electronic appliance. In particular carbon black carbon nanotubes CNTs and the like can be used to increase both the electrical conductivity and thermal conductivity of a polymer and thus it is very important to systematically research such materials.

Further the interest in electrostatic dissipation materials is increasing because there is a possibility of a monitoring chip exploding and a danger of the monitoring chip being damaged by electricity. Since a coating agent having an electrostatic dissipation function can solve such problems it is expected that such a coating agent will play an important role in the automobile market in the future.

Carbon black which is generally used to prepare a coating agent is advantageous from the economical point of view but is disadvantageous in that it is difficult to control the conductivity of a coating agent. Meanwhile when a coating agent needs to be strongly conductive carbon steel fibers are used and when the coating agent needs to be effectively conductive metallicized particles are used effectively. However there is a disadvantage in that the carbon steel fibers or metallicized particles are expensive.

It is known that when migrating antistatic agents or polymers are used to prepare a coating agent the coating agent has a surface electric resistance of 1012 1014 ohms square and is thus used for insulation and that when inherently conductive polymers ICPs or inherently dissipative polymers IDPs are used to prepare a coating agent the coating agent has a surface electric resistance of 104 1010 ohms square and is thus used for dissipation and that when carbon black based compounds are used to prepare a coating agent the coating agent has a surface electric resistance of 102 104 ohms square and is thus used for conduction and that when electromagnetic interference compounds or metals are used to prepare a coating agent the coating agent has a surface electric resistance of 101 10 6 ohms square and is thus used for high conduction.

Referring to documents related to conventional coating agents Korean Patent Registration No. 10 0764340 discloses a heat dissipative coating agent which is applied on one or both sides of a metal substrate to form a coating layer and thus can be applied to information storage and display devices such as compact discs CDs laser discs LDs digital versatile discs DVDs compact disc read only memory CD ROM compact disc random access memory CD RAM plasma display panels PDPs liquid crystal displays LCDs and the like. The heat dissipative coating agent includes a polyester resin as a binder. When the metal substrate coated with the heat dissipative coating agent is heated to a temperature of 100 C. the integral emissivity of infrared rays wavelength 4.5 5.4 um is 0.6 or more. Further 15 50 of metal powder such as nickel Ni powder and the like is added to this coating agent to reduce the electric resistance of the coating agent to a level of 10 100 square thus imparting electromagnetic wave shielding properties to the coating agent. However in this patent document the corrosion resistance of a coating agent is not described at all.

Currently in most Korean patents related to the practical application to CRT coating antistatic coating active matrix liquid crystal display component coating or the like using a conductive polymer such as polyethylene dioxythiophene PEDT polyaniline or the like which has electro conductivity without the aid of additives. In this case surface electric resistance was mostly measured within the range of 100 1000 square.

It is known that conductive coating agents including conductive particles are being studied by paint companies. Examples of the conductive particles may include metal particles such as aluminum particles zinc particles and the like carbon black particles carbon nanotube particles and the like.

The present inventor developed a method of preparing a nanocomposite material by dissipating an inorganic plate like compound in a thermosetting resin and then exfoliating the dissipated compound and produced a nanocomposite coating agent having excellent shielding ability and corrosion resistance using the method Korean Patent Registration No. 10 0604984 . Specifically this method is a method of preparing an anticorrosive coating agent using nanosize dispersed plate like clay MMT instead of alumina sol used to prepare a conventional coating agent prepared by adding a cross linking agent and an anticorrosive agent such as alumina sol to a water dispersible polymer.

Further the present inventor developed a nanocomposite coating agent having improved corrosion resistance by adding a monomer or polymer including organic nanosize dispersed plate like clay MMT and a curing agent to a conventional anticorrosive coating agent prepared by adding other additives to main components including a monomer for an organic solvent a polymer having reaction groups and a curing agent Korean Patent Registration No. 10 0872833 .

However a coating agent for a steel sheet having both conductivity and corrosion resistance has not yet been disclosed.

Therefore in consideration of the above problems the present inventor has attempted to prepare a coating composition for a steel sheet which can exhibit both conductivity and corrosion resistance. As a result the present inventor prepared a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance by mixing organo clay metal powder and carbon black with a base resin and a melamine based curing agent using ultrasonic waves to form a mixture uniformly dispersing the mixture and then adding other additives to the dispersed mixture. Thus the present invention was completed.

Accordingly the present invention has been made keeping in mind the above problems occurring in the prior art and an object of the present invention is to provide a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance prepared by mixing organo clay metal powder and carbon black with a base resin and a melamine based curing agent.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of preparing a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance by mixing organo clay metal powder and carbon black with a base resin and a melamine based curing agent using ultrasonic waves.

A further object of the present invention is to provide an article coated with the coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance.

An aspect of the present invention provides a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance including one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin a melamine based curing agent one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes metal powder and organo clay.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a method of preparing a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance including the step of uniformly dispersing using ultrasonic waves one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin a melamine based curing agent one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes metal powder and organo clay.

A further aspect of the present invention provides an article having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance coated with the coating composition.

The coating composition of the present invention which is prepared by mixing organo clay metal powder and carbon black with a resin composition using ultrasonic waves can exhibit excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance. Further the coating composition of the present invention can be used to produce an article having improved electro conductivity and corrosion resistance because it can be advantageously applied on the surface of other metals or materials as well as a zinc plated steel sheet.

The present invention provides a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance including one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin a melamine based curing agent one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes metal powder and organo clay.

That is the present invention provides a coating composition having both electro conductivity and corrosion resistance and the coating composition is prepared by mixing one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes metal powder and organo clay with a base resin and a melamine based curing agent.

Preferably the coating composition of the present invention includes 100 parts by weight of one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin 1 20 parts by weight of a melamine based curing agent 1 20 parts by weight of one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes 1 40 parts by weight of metal powder and 0.001 20 parts by weight of organo clay.

More preferably the coating composition of the present invention includes 100 parts by weight of one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin 1 20 parts by weight of a melamine based curing agent 1 10 parts by weight of one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes 1 20 parts by weight of metal powder and 0.001 10 parts by weight of organo clay.

Still more preferably the coating composition of the present invention includes 100 parts by weight of one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin 5 15 parts by weight of a melamine based curing agent 3 7 parts by weight of one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes 10 20 parts by weight of metal powder and 1 10 parts by weight of organo clay.

In the present invention the coating composition may further include remaining solvent in order to adjust the concentration of the coating composition.

In the present invention remaining solvent may be one or more selected from the group consisting of xylene toluene cellosolve cellosolve acetate and butyl cellosolve.

The coating composition of the present invention may be applied to form a dry coating film having a thickness of 0.1 100 m but the present invention is not limited thereto.

In the coating composition of the present invention the metal powder may be one or more selected from the group consisting of Al Cu Ni Zn Fe2P Fe Mn Co Ti and Sn.

As the organo clay used in the coating composition of the present invention organo clay brand name Cloisite 30B commercially available from Southern Clay Corp. may be used or organo clay formed by organizing general clay using a method well known in the related field may be used.

Since a nanocomposite material of a polymer and clay has excellent mechanical properties like a tensile strength heat resistance and prevents moistures and gases such as oxygen from infiltrating into the nanocomposite material research into the nanocomposite material is being conducted on various fronts. Clay is generically referred to as an inorganic compound including silicate having a layered structure. Here each layer has an irregular disc shape and has a thickness of about 1 nm and a diameter of about 0.1 100 m.

In the present invention the organo clay may be selected from among kaolin serpentine mica vermiculite smectite phyllosilicate and combinations thereof. Examples of the smectite may include bentonite montmorillonite MMT saponite armargosite metabentonite hectorite beidellite stevensite halloysite nontronite and the like.

The coating composition of the present invention may further include an additive which is commonly added in the preparation of the coating composition in addition to the above constituents. In this case it is preferred that the amount of the additive be 1 50 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin.

Specifically examples of the additive may include a quenching agent wax for providing lubricity a dispersant for preventing the coagulation of pigment a defoaming agent a curing accelerator and the like.

The present invention can provide an environment friendly coating composition because harmful chromium Cr which is used to improve corrosion resistance is not used at all. Further the present invention provides a method of preparing a coating composition having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance including the step of uniformly dispersing using ultrasonic waves one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin a melamine based curing agent one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes metal powder and organo clay.

Preferably the method of preparing a coating composition according to the present invention may include the step of uniformly dispersing using ultrasonic waves one or more base resins selected from the group consisting of 100 parts by weight of one or more resins selected from the group consisting of a polyester resin an epoxy resin a polyurethane resin an acrylic resin a polyolefin resin a fluorine resin a polycarbonate resin and a phenol resin 1 20 parts by weight of a melamine based curing agent 1 20 parts by weight of one or more selected from among carbon black and carbon nanotubes 1 40 parts by weight of metal powder and 0.001 20 parts by weight of organo clay.

The method of preparing a coating composition according to the present invention may further include the step of adding remaining solvent to the coating composition.

Preferably the present invention provides an article having excellent electro conductivity and corrosion resistance which is coated with the coating composition. Here the article may be a steel sheet but is not limited thereto. The article may be made of metals or other materials in addition to steel.

More preferably the steel sheet may be a zinc plated steel sheet but is not limited thereto. Specific examples of the article may include small sized or high integrated electronic parts such as hard disk drives exterior panels for a PC LCD cases PDP cases and the like small sized or high integrated electronic finished products such as mobile phones PNP plug and play electronic navigators an MP3 MPEG 1 Layer 3 player a notebook computer and the like wood plastic ceramic and the like.

Hereinafter the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the following Examples. A better understanding of the present invention may be obtained through the following examples which are set forth to illustrate but the scope of the present invention is not limited thereto.

As shown in Table 1 organo clay carbon black and aluminum powder were mixed with each of a polyester resin and an epoxy resin each of which is a base resin for a predetermined time using a general stirrer a high speed mixer or an ultrasonic mixer to form a coating composition and then the dispersion degree of the coating composition was measured. Dispermat VMA GETZMANN D 51580 was used as the high speed mixer and the ultrasonic mixer VCX750 Sonic Materials was used at a power of 300 W. An organized smectite based layered compound available from NANOCOR USA was used as the organo clay. The carbon black was manufactured by Degussa Corp. and had an average particle size of 2 m. The aluminum powder had an average particle size of about 3 m.

The maximum particle size of the coating composition not dispersed was measured using a Hegman particle size meter. In the method of preparing a coating composition using each of the two base resins the maximum particle size of the coating composition prepared by using the ultrasonic mixer for 10 minutes was 10 m or under but the maximum particle sizes of the coating compositions prepared by using the general stirrer or the high speed mixer were 100 m and 50 m respectively. Therefore it was found that the coating composition prepared by using the ultrasonic mixer was more effective than the coating composition prepared by using the general stirrer or the high speed mixer.

A polyester resin hereinafter referred to as resin A having a molecular weight of 9 000 10 000 g mole which is a base resin was mixed with a melamine based curing agent at a weight ratio of 10 1 to form a first mixture and then carbon black was added to the first mixture and then stirred using a general stirrer at a rotational velocity of 1000 rpm for about 3 minutes to form a second mixture. Subsequently aluminum powder and organo clay a smectite based layered compound available from NANOCOR USA were added to the second mixture and then mixed using an ultrasonic mixer for 10 minutes to prepare a coating composition. As shown in Table 2 the coating composition was adjusted to have proper viscosity Ford cup 4 60 seconds using a xylene as remain solvent and was then bar coated on one side of a steel sheet having a thickness of 0.5 T and a size of 75 150 m to form a dry coating film having a thickness of 8 m. The steel sheet bar coated with the coating composition was cured in a hot air drier under the conditions of hot air of a frequency of 20.3 Hz a peak metal temperature PMT of 230 C. and a curing time of 18.1 seconds to prepare steel sheet samples treated with the coating composition.

The steel sheet samples treated with the coating compositions given in Table 2 were evaluated as follows. The surface electric resistance of the steel sheet samples was measured by a 4 point probe method using a LORESTA GP MCP T600 manufactured by Mitsubishi Corp. Further the corrosion resistance thereof was measured every 120 hours through SST evaluation. The SST evaluation was performed according to ASTM B 117 standards using a saline water spray test apparatus Q FOG CCT 1100 Q PANEL under the conditions of 5 wt of sodium chloride NaCl in saline water a temperature of 35 C. and a relative humidity of 99 .

The corrosion resistance of the steel sheet samples was evaluated by the following standards after a saline water spray test was performed according to the ASTM B 117 standards 

The measured surface electric resistance and corrosion resistance of the steel sheet samples are given in Table 2. As given in Table 2 the surface electric resistance of the steel sheet sample coated with a coating composition including no aluminum was 680 square but the surface electric resistance of the steel sheet sample coated with a coating composition prepared by adding 7.5 parts by weight of aluminum powder to 100 parts by weight of a polyester base resin resin A was 0.91 square which was greatly decreased and the surface electric resistance of the steel sheet sample coated with a coating composition prepared by adding 10 parts by weight of aluminum powder to 100 parts by weight of a polyester base resin resin A was about 0.025 square which was greatly decreased. However the surface electric resistance of the steel sheet sample was not decreased any more even when the amount of aluminum powder was increased to 12.5 parts by weight and 15 parts by weight. Like this according to the results of measuring the corrosion resistance of the steel sheet samples it can be seen that the corrosion resistance of the steel sheet samples become poor as the amount of aluminum powder was increased.

5 parts by weight of carbon black 15 parts by weight of aluminum powder 10 parts by weight of a curing agent and 5 parts by weight of organo clay smectite A brand name 1.28E NANOCOR USA or B brand name 1.33M NANOCOR USA were mixed with a resin A and a resin B a polyester resin having a molecular weight of 5 000 6 000 g mol respectively to form a mixture and then the mixture was stirred for about 3 minutes using a general stirrer and then dispersed for about 10 minutes using an ultrasonic mixer to prepare a coating composition. Subsequently the coating composition was applied on steel sheets and then cured using the same method as in Example 2 and then the surface electric resistance and corrosion resistance of the steel sheets coated with the coating composition were measured and the results thereof are given in Table 3.

As a result it can be seen that the surface electric resistance of the steel sheet coated with the coating composition was maintained at a low surface electric resistance of 0.0003 0.02 square when 5 parts by weight of the organo clay A or B was added and that the corrosion resistance thereof was improved from poor or insufficient to good or excellent.

Organo clay A and B were respectively dispersed in a resin A and then analyzed using X rays. As a result it can be seen that the interlayer spacing d spacing of the organo clay A was remarkably increased from 2.2 nm to 7.1 nm and the interlayer spacing d spacing of the organo clay B was remarkably increased from 2.4 nm to 6.0 nm. This means that molecules of the resin A infiltrated between the layers of the organo clay A or B. Therefore it can be seen that the organo clay A or B was sufficiently dispersed in the resin A. Equally even when the organo clay A and B were respectively dispersed in a resin B it can be seen that the interlayer spacing d spacing of the organo clay A was remarkably increased from 2.2 nm to 6.0 nm and the interlayer spacing d spacing of the organo clay B was remarkably increased from 2.4 nm to 4.2 nm.

As given in Table 4 carbon black aluminum powder and a curing agent were mixed with a resin A using the same method as in Examples 3 while the amount of organo clay was changed to 2.5 5 or 7.5 parts by weight thus preparing a coating composition. The prepared coating composition was applied on steel sheets and then cured using the same method as in Example 3 and then the surface electric resistance and corrosion resistance of the steel sheets coated with the coating composition were measured. Due to the addition of the organo clay the surface electric resistance of the steel sheet was not greatly changed but the corrosion resistance thereof was remarkably improved. Further when the amount of the organo clay was 2.5 7.5 parts by weight the surface electric resistance and corrosion resistance of the steel sheets coated with the coating composition were hardly changed.

