---

title: Methods for engineering polypeptide variants via somatic hypermutation and polypeptide made thereby
abstract: Methods using somatic hypermutation (SHM) for producing polypeptide and nucleic acid variants, and nucleic acids encoding such polypeptide variants are disclosed. Such variants may have desired properties. Also disclosed are novel polypeptides, such as improved fluorescent proteins, produced by the novel methods, and nucleic acids, vectors, and host cells comprising such vectors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08932859&OS=08932859&RS=08932859
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08932859
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080521
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant No. NS27177 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and Grant NO DE FG03 01ER63276 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to the fields of chemistry and biology more particularly to the fields of novel proteins and nucleic acids methods of producing novel proteins and nucleic acids.

Directed evolution is one of the most powerful tools for engineering proteins especially when a significant number of mutations have to be iteratively accumulated to achieve the desired phenotype Minshull J. Stemmer W. P. C. Protein evolution by molecular breeding. 3 284 290 1999 Petrounia I. P. Arnold F. H. Designed evolution of enzymatic properties. 11 330 2000 . In vitro methods for creating genetic diversity are very powerful but laborious to apply iteratively when selection has to be done on transfected cells or organisms. In vivo mutagenesis avoids repetitive transfection and re isolation of genes but normally randomizes the entire genome wastefully rather than focusing on the gene of interest Greener A. Callahan M. Jerpseth B. An efficient random mutagenesis technique using an mutator strain. 7 189 95 1997 .

Polypeptide variants may provide polypeptides having improved properties as compared to the parent polypeptides. For example a variety of GFP related fluorescent proteins having useful excitation and emission spectra have been engineered by modifying the amino acid sequence of a native sequence GFP from see Prasher et al. 111 229 233 1992 Heim et al. 91 12501 12504 1994 U.S. Pat. No. 5 625 048 International application PCT US95 14692 now published as PCT WO96 23810 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . However there is need for further methods for providing polypeptide variants and for improved polypeptides including further need for fluorescent protein variants having improved properties.

B lymphocytes B cells can specifically mutate immunoglobulin chains through a process called somatic hypermutation SHM . SHM uses activation induced cytidine deaminase AID and error prone DNA repair to introduce point mutations into the rearranged V regions of immunoglobulin in a rate of 1 10mutations per base pair per generation 10times higher than that in the rest of the genome Rajewsky K. Forster I. Cumano A. Evolutionary and somatic selection of the antibody repertoire in the mouse. 238 1088 94 1987 .

Our understanding of SHM has been further advanced by more recent work see e.g. Papavasiliou F. N. Schatz D. G. Somatic hypermutation of immunoglobulin genes merging mechanisms for genetic diversity. 109 Suppl. S35 S44 2002 Martin A. Scharff M. D. AID and mismatch repair in antibody diversification. 2 605 14 2002 Neuberger M. S. Harris R. S. Di Noia J. Petersen Mahrt S. K. Immunity through DNA deamination. 28 305 12 2003 Bachl J. Carlson C. Gray Schopfer V. Dessing M. Olsson C. Increased transcription levels induce higher mutation rates in a hypermutating cell line. 166 5051 7 2001 Wang C. L. Harper R. A. Wabl M. Genome wide somatic hypermutation. 101 7352 7356 2004 . Somatic hypermutation has not been used for polypeptide mutagenesis to provide polypeptide variants or improved polypeptides.

The methods discovered by the present inventors permit one to use the somatic hypermutation SHM process and to evolve polypeptides having desired properties. For example using the novel methods the inventors have developed monomeric fluorescent proteins with increased photostability and the longest wavelength emissions e.g. 649 nm yet observed for a red fluorescent protein. The inventors have developed methods reagents and kits that allow proteins unrelated to immunoglobulin chains to be bred directly in mammalian cells providing engineered polypeptide variants via somatic hypermutation. Mutation of target proteins and nucleic acids by the present methods including mutation of completely foreign genes encoding fluorescent proteins is effective to produce new and desirable phenotypes difficult or impossible to find by conventional mutagenesis.

The present disclosure provides methods for developing novel polypeptides such as polypeptide variants. Such methods include for example methods for engineering a fluorescent protein variant. A polypeptide variant may be a polypeptide having desired properties such as for example a fluorescent protein variant having desired fluorescent properties. Methods for developing nucleic acids encoding novel polypeptides e.g. polypeptide variants are also provided.

The present invention further provides novel polypeptides and nucleic acids nucleic acids encoding them. The present invention also provides vectors and cells comprising such nucleic acids and polypeptides. For example a polypeptide variant provided by the methods disclosed herein may be a variant or fragment of a fluorescent protein e.g. a variant or fragment of a red fluorescent protein such as mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 or of other fluorescent proteins.

A variant of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 may have 80 or 90 or 95 or greater sequence identity with SEQ ID NO 1 and may comprise one or more amino acid substitutions with respect to the amino acid sequence of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 . For example such amino acid substitutions may be selected from amino acid substitutions at positions 16 17 45 65 71 124 127 161 166 and 191 and may include one or more substitutions selected from the substitutions V16E R17H K45R F65C I A71G L124V T127S I161M K166R and G191D. Such variants may include additions such as e.g. terminal amino acid additions and may include deletions. In some embodiments the polypeptide variant may be mPlum SEQ ID NO 3 or may be mRaspberry SEQ ID NO 5 .

An aspect of the methods disclosed herein provides a method for engineering a variant of a target polypeptide comprising introducing polynucleotide message encoding a target polypeptide into a cell capable of supporting somatic hypermutation said target polypeptide comprising a polypeptide other than an immunoglobulin chain polypeptide whereby said message encoding said target polypeptide in said cell is mutated by somatic hypermutation effective to provide a variant of said target polypeptide. A cell capable of supporting somatic hypermutation may comprise activation induced cytidine deaminase AID and may be capable of error prone DNA repair. Cells capable of supporting somatic hypermutation include B cells and include cells selected from the group consisting of a Ramos cell ATCC No. CRL 1596 a chicken DT40 cell ATCC No. CRL 2111 a BL2 cell a BL41 cell a CL 01 cell and an 18 81 cell.

In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein the polynucleotide message encoding a target polypeptide comprises a promoter. For example a promoter may be a cytomegalovirus CMV promoter. The promoter may be an inducible promoter. An inducible promoter may be for example a doxycycline dependent TET ON promoter. The methods disclosed herein may include inducing a high level of expression of the target polypeptide. A high level of expression of a target polypeptide may be effected for example by providing doxycycline to a cell transfected with message including a doxycycline dependent TET ON promoter. High levels of expression of a target polypeptide are expression levels that are greater than corresponding rates of expression in the absence of inducing expression of the polypeptide. Such high level of expression may be effective to provide a high mutation rate of the message e.g. a mutation rate greater than the corresponding rate in the absence of inducing expression of the polypeptide .

Methods disclosed herein may include determining whether a cell or a population of cells exhibits a desired property and or selecting a cell or population of cells if it exhibits a desired property such as for example expression of a polypeptide variant that has a desired property. Methods of determining and or of selecting a cell or population of cells may include using a fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS .

In embodiments the methods disclosed herein may be applied to the selected cell and its progeny. For example further application of the methods may be applied e.g. iteratively to a selected cell or population of cells expressing a desired property and further determination and or selection performed on the selected cell or population of cells exhibiting a desired property or on the progeny of such cells.

Further aspects of the methods for engineering a variant of a target polypeptide disclosed herein comprise a introducing polynucleotide message encoding a target polypeptide into at least one cell of a population of cells capable of supporting somatic hypermutation wherein said target polypeptide comprises a polypeptide other than an immunoglobulin chain polypeptide b actively inducing a high level of expression of said target polypeptide in said at least one cell of said population of cells whereby said message encoding said target polypeptide in at least one cell of said population of cells is mutated by somatic hypermutation effective to provide a variant of said target polypeptide c selecting a cell which expresses a variant polypeptide comprising a desired property and d allowing proliferation of said selected cell or expansion of a population of selected cells without active induction of expression of said target polypeptide effective to provide a population of selected cells. A polynucleotide message encoding a target polypeptide may include a promoter such as an inducible promoter as discussed above.

Steps b and c may be repeated and applied to a population of selected cells that was expanded during step d . Such selecting may include for example the use of a FACS. A target polypeptide may be for example a fluorescent polypeptide.

Messenger ribonucleic acid mRNA may be isolated from a selected cell or population of cells e.g. by methods including amplification by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction RT PCR and or sequencing of the isolated mRNA which sequencing may include deoxyribonucleic acid DNA sequencing. Methods disclosed herein may include isolating nucleic acid encoding a variant of a target polypeptide from a selected cell or selected population of cells. A polypeptide variant of a target polypeptide may be isolated from a selected cell or population of cells.

Aspects of the methods disclosed herein include methods for engineering a fluorescent protein variant having a desired fluorescence property comprising a introducing a polynucleotide message encoding a fluorescent protein under the control of an inducible promoter into at least one cell of a population of cells capable of supporting SHM b inducing a high level of expression of said fluorescent protein whereby said message encoding said fluorescent protein in at least one cell of said population of cells is mutated by somatic hypermutation effective to provide a variant of said target polypeptide and c selecting a cell expressing a fluorescent protein variant having said desired fluorescent property. Fluorescent proteins suitable for the practice of the methods include for example a fluorescent protein selected from a Green Fluorescent Protein GFP a GFP variant a Red Fluorescent Protein RFP and a RFP variant. In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein the fluorescent protein is a RFP such as for example mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 . Further aspects of the methods may include d allowing proliferation of said selected cell or expansion of a population of selected cells without active induction of expression of said target polypeptide effective to provide a population of selected cells. In yet further aspects of the methods disclosed herein a step e may be included comprising repeating steps b and c on said population of selected cells of step d .

A method for engineering a variant of a target polypeptide disclosed herein comprises a transfecting Ramos cells with exogenous nucleic acid encoding a target polypeptide under the control of a doxycycline dependent TET ON promoter b providing doxycycline effective to contact said transfected cells with doxycycline effective to induce a high level of expression of said target polypeptide in said Ramos cells c selecting Ramos cells expressing said target polypeptide d allowing cell proliferation in the absence of further providing of doxycycline and e selecting Ramos cells expressing a variant or variants of said target polypeptide. A further step comprising f repeating steps b c and d on said population of selected Ramos cells of step e may be included. In addition in embodiments further steps may include isolating mRNA performing RT PCR and performing DNA sequencing on material derived from said Ramos cells effective to characterize said polypeptide variant or to provide desired quantities of said polypeptide variant.

As disclosed herein the novel methods are effective to provide novel polypeptide variants such as for example a polypeptide produced from a cell or progeny of a cell that was selected from a population of cells transfected with polynucleotide encoding an exogenous polypeptide subjected to Somatic Hypermutation and selected for desired polypeptide properties.

For example provided herein are red fluorescent protein variants of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of said modified form of an mRFP1.2 polypeptide is at least 90 homologous or at least 95 homologous to mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 and comprises the amino acid methionine M at a position corresponding to position 161 of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 and a variant amino acid at a position corresponding to position 65 replacing the phenylalanine F at position 65 of mRFP said variants selected from cysteine C and isoleucine I . Such red fluorescent protein variants may further comprise at least one further substitution selected from A71G V16E R17H K45R L124V and K166R and may still further comprise at least one substitution selected from T127S and G191D. For example a novel fluorescent protein provided by methods disclosed herein may comprise the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 3 mPlum the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 5 mRaspberry or variants thereof and a novel nucleotide provided by the methods disclosed herein may encode an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO 3 mPlum may encode an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO 5 mRaspberry or variants thereof.

In other embodiments kits are provided that include at least one polynucleotide sequence encoding a novel fluorescent protein variant. Alternatively or in addition the kits can provide a novel fluorescent protein variant itself. Also provided are vectors that encode the fluorescent protein variants described or taught herein. Such vectors can encode these variants. Also provided herein are suitable expression vectors. In other embodiments or the methods and compositions disclosed herein host cells comprising any of these vectors are provided.

The methods and kits disclosed herein are useful for engineering improvements in polypeptides such as e.g. improved fluorescent proteins thereby providing variants having improved features and properties. The compounds disclosed herein may be used for imaging tagging and other purposes. For example the methods disclosed herein have been used to develop fluorescent proteins based on an initial fluorescent protein sequence having longer emission wavelengths than the original fluorescent proteins. Such far red wavelengths are desirable for improving optical imaging in intact mammals Ray P. De A. Min J. J. Tsien R. Y. Gambhir S. S. Imaging tri fusion multimodality reporter gene expression in living subjects. 64 1323 1330 2004 . Further uses and advantages will be evident from the disclosure herein.

Unless specifically indicated otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. In addition any method or material similar or equivalent to a method or material described herein can be used in the practice the present invention. For purposes of the present disclosure the following terms are defined with the following meanings unless stated otherwise.

The terms nucleic acid nucleic acid molecule polynucleotide and the like refers to a deoxyribonucleotide or ribonucleotide polymer in either single stranded or double stranded form and unless specifically indicated otherwise encompasses polynucleotides containing known analogs of native sequence nucleotides that can function in a similar manner as native sequence nucleotides. It will be understood that when a nucleic acid molecule is represented by a DNA sequence this also includes RNA molecules having the corresponding RNA sequence in which U uridine replaces T thymidine .

Reference to a nucleic acid or a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide means that upon transcription of the polynucleotide and translation of the mRNA produced therefrom a polypeptide is produced. The encoding polynucleotide is considered to include both the coding strand whose nucleotide sequence is identical to an mRNA as well as its complementary strand. It will be recognized that such an encoding polynucleotide is considered to include degenerate nucleotide sequences which encode the same amino acid residues. Nucleotide sequences encoding a polypeptide can include polynucleotides containing introns as well as the encoding exons.

The term polypeptide or protein refers to a polymer of two or more amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical analogue of a corresponding native sequence amino acid as well as to native sequence amino acid polymers. The term recombinant protein or recombinant polypeptide refers to a protein that is produced by expression of a nucleotide sequence encoding the amino acid sequence of the protein from a recombinant DNA molecule.

The term isolated or purified refers to a material that is substantially or essentially free from components that normally accompany the material in its native state in nature. Purity or homogeneity generally are determined using analytical chemistry techniques such as polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis high performance liquid chromatography and the like. A polynucleotide or a polypeptide is considered to be isolated when it is the predominant species present in a preparation. Generally an isolated protein or nucleic acid molecule represents greater than 80 of the macromolecular species present in a preparation often represents greater than 90 of all macromolecular species present usually represents greater than 95 of the macromolecular species and in particular is a polypeptide or polynucleotide that purified to essential homogeneity such that it is the only species detected in significant amounts when examined using conventional methods for determining purity of such a molecule.

The term native sequence is used to refer to a polypeptide nucleic acid molecule cell or other material that occurs in nature. For example a polypeptide or polynucleotide sequence that is present in an organism including in a virus. A native sequence material can be in its form as it exists in nature and can be modified by the hand of man such that for example is in an isolated form.

The terms immunoglobulin and immunoglobulin chain refer to a polypeptide substantially encoded by an immunoglobulin gene or immunoglobulin genes or antigen binding fragments thereof which specifically bind and recognize an analyte antigen . Immunoglobulin chain polypeptides include antibodies and antibody fragments and may be a polypeptide derived from an antibody or antibody fragment. For example each of an immunoglobulin light chain or an immunogobin heavy chain are immunoglobulin polypeptides see e.g. Schultz et al. 41 4427 4437 2002 . The recognized immunoglobulin genes include the kappa lambda alpha gamma delta epsilon and mu constant region genes as well as the myriad immunoglobulin variable region genes. Antibodies exist as intact immunoglobulin chains and as well characterized antigen binding fragments of an antibody which can be produced by digestion with a peptidase or can using recombinant DNA methods. Such antigen binding fragments of an antibody include for example Fv Fab and F ab fragments. The term antibody as used herein includes antibody fragments either produced by the modification of whole antibodies or those synthesized de novo using recombinant DNA methodologies. An immunoglobulin chain polypeptide is a polypeptide derived from an antibody or antibody fragment. For example each of an immunoglobulin light chain or animmunogobin heavy chain are immunoglobulin polypeptides.

The term conservatively modified variation when used in reference to a particular polynucleotide sequence refers to different polynucleotide sequences that encode identical or essentially identical amino acid sequences or where the polynucleotide does not encode an amino acid sequence to essentially identical sequences. Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code a large number of functionally identical polynucleotides encode any given polypeptide. For instance the codons CGU CGC CGA CGG AGA and AGG all encode the amino acid arginine. Thus at every position where an arginine is specified by a codon the codon can be altered to any of the corresponding codons described without altering the encoded polypeptide. Such nucleotide sequence variations are silent variations which can be considered a species of conservatively modified variations. As such it will be recognized that each polynucleotide sequence disclosed herein as encoding a fluorescent protein variant also describes every possible silent variation. It will also be recognized that each codon in a polynucleotide except AUG which is ordinarily the only codon for methionine and UUG which is ordinarily the only codon for tryptophan can be modified to yield a functionally identical molecule by standard techniques. Accordingly each silent variation of a polynucleotide that does not change the sequence of the encoded polypeptide is implicitly described herein. Furthermore it will be recognized that individual substitutions deletions or additions that alter add or delete a single amino acid or a small percentage of amino acids typically less than 5 and generally less than 1 in an encoded sequence can be considered conservatively modified variations provided alteration results in the substitution of an amino acid with a chemically similar amino acid. Conservative amino acid substitutions providing functionally similar amino acids are well known in the art including the following six groups each of which contains amino acids that are considered conservative substitutes for each another 

Two or more amino acid sequences or two or more nucleotide sequences are considered to be substantially identical or substantially similar if the amino acid sequences or the nucleotide sequences share at least 80 sequence identity with each other or with a reference sequence over a given comparison window. Thus substantially similar sequences include those having for example at least 85 sequence identity at least 90 sequence identity at least 95 sequence identity or at least 99 sequence identity.

The term identical when used in reference to two or more polynucleotide sequences or two or more polypeptide sequences refers to the residues in the sequences that are the same when aligned for maximum correspondence. When percentage of sequence identity is used in reference to a polypeptide it is recognized that one or more residue positions that are not otherwise identical can differ by a conservative amino acid substitution in which a first amino acid residue is substituted for another amino acid residue having similar chemical properties such as a similar charge or hydrophobic or hydrophilic character and therefore does not change the functional properties of the polypeptide. Where polypeptide sequences differ in conservative substitutions the percent sequence identity can be adjusted upwards to correct for the conservative nature of the substitution. Such an adjustment can be made using well known methods for example scoring a conservative substitution as a partial rather than a full mismatch thereby increasing the percentage sequence identity. Thus for example where an identical amino acid is given a score of 1 and a non conservative substitution is given a score of zero a conservative substitution is given a score between zero and 1. The scoring of conservative substitutions can be calculated using any well known algorithm see for example Meyers and Miller 4 11 17 1988 Smith and Waterman 2 482 1981 Needleman and Wunsch 48 443 1970 Pearson and Lipman 85 2444 1988 Higgins and Sharp 73 237 244 1988 Higgins and Sharp 5 151 153 1989 Corpet et al. 16 10881 10890 1988 Huang et al. 8 155 165 1992 Pearson et al. 24 307 331 1994 . Alignment also can be performed by simple visual inspection and manual alignment of sequences.

Amino acid substitutions insertions deletions and other changes in amino acid sequence with respect to a parent polypeptide s amino acid sequence are typically indicated by amino acid number. These and other modifications are defined herein with reference to the amino acid sequence the first amino acid identified is the one found at the indicated location in the parent sequence while the second indicates the substitution found in the modified form e.g. A71G indicates a substitution of the amino acid alanine at position 71 in the parent sequence by glycine at the position corresponding to 71 in the variant sequence .

Where a variant amino acid sequence includes insertions or deletions for example the variant amino acids may be numbered to correspond to the corresponding positions along the parent amino acid sequence. Thus for example where a GFP variant includes an amino acid insertion following the initial methionine of the parent amino acid sequence the inserted amino acid may be numbered 1A so that the serine in the GFP variant the third amino acid counting from the initial methionine is numbered 2 corresponding to serine 2 of the parent GFP.

The term expression control sequence refers to a nucleotide sequence that regulates the transcription or translation of a polynucleotide or the localization of a polypeptide to which to which it is operatively linked. Expression control sequences are operatively linked when the expression control sequence controls or regulates the transcription and as appropriate translation of the nucleotide sequence i.e. a transcription or translation regulatory element respectively or localization of an encoded polypeptide to a specific compartment of a cell. Thus an expression control sequence can be a promoter enhancer transcription terminator a start codon ATG a splicing signal for intron excision and maintenance of the correct reading frame a STOP codon a ribosome binding site.

A promoter is an expression control sequence that regulates or affects expression e.g. transcription or translation of a polynucleotide operably linked to that promoter typically by increasing the transcription or translation of the polynucleotide.

An inducible promoter is a promoter the activity of which may be enhanced activated or otherwise increased by an external factor agent or event. For example a promoter whose activity may be increased by contact with a certain compound or class of compounds is an inducible promoter. Providing that compound or a compound of the class of compounds that activate the promoter acts to induce that promoter. For example a doxycycline dependent TET ON promoter whose activity is increased by contact with doxycycline is an inducible promoter. A CMV promoter such as the pl promoter of Promega is another example of an inducible promoter Fukita et al. 9 105 114 1998 .

The terms actively inducing actively induced active induction and the like as applied to expression of a polypeptide or of nucleic acid message encoding a polypeptide indicate an active step taken by an actor such as a person to induce the subject expression. For example providing doxycyline to a cell comprising a doxycycline dependent promoter to induce expression of message encoding a polypeptide so as to induce expression of that polypeptide is actively induced expression of that polypeptide. However the constituitive expression of a polypeptide that is not the result of addition of additional factors or of activation of an inducible promoter is not actively induced expression.

High levels of expression of a target polypeptide are expression levels that are greater than baseline or typical levels of expression e.g. rates of expression in the absence of actively inducing expression of the polypeptide . Such a high level of expression may be effective to provide a high mutation rate of the message e.g. a mutation rate greater than the corresponding rate in the absence of inducing expression of the polypeptide . For example the expression level of a polypeptide that is expressed at high levels may be 1.5 2 3 5 10 or more times than the corresponding rate of expression found in the absence of induced expression. High levels of transcription or of expression may be provided by promoters such as e.g. a CMV promoter Fukita et al. 9 105 114 1998 .

The term progeny when applied to a cell includes daughter cells derived from a parent cell by cell division whether by mitosis or meiosis and includes other cells containing nucleic acids derived from a parent cell and introduced into the other cells by natural e.g. conjugation or other form of gene transfer or artificial e.g. recombinant methods means.

The term variant means a compound sharing many often nearly all but not all of the chemical features of another compound which may be termed a parent compound . For example a variant of a polypeptide will have an amino acid sequence that differs in at least one amino acid from the amino acid sequence of the parent polypeptide. Similarly a variant of a nucleic acid will have a nucleic acid sequence that differs in at least one nucleic acid from the nucleic acid sequence of the parent nucleic acid. The term mutant or variant also is used herein in reference to a fluorescent protein that contains a mutation with respect to a corresponding wild type fluorescent protein. In addition reference is made herein to a spectral variant or spectral mutant of a fluorescent protein to indicate a mutant fluorescent protein that has different fluorescence properties with respect to the corresponding wild type fluorescent protein.

As used herein the term brightness with reference to a fluorescent protein is measured as the product of the extinction coefficient EC at a given wavelength and the fluorescence quantum yield QY .

The term determining as used for example in a phrase such as e.g. determining whether a cell has a desired property refers to observing and or measuring and or testing and or characterizing or otherwise evaluating a target such as e.g. a cell or polypeptide or nucleic acid in order to detect whether the target exhibits or possesses as particular property or feature or characteristic.

The term selecting as used for example in a phrase such as e.g. selecting a cell that exhibits a desired property refers to choosing and or segregating e.g. separating and or isolating a target such as e.g. a cell or polypeptide or nucleic acid in order to identify and or collect those targets which exhibit or possess as particular property or feature or characteristic.

The term somatic hypermutation SHM refers to a process of enhanced mutation of a gene thought to require activation induced cytidine deaminase AID and error prone DNA repair. SHM was initially described from observations of the increased mutation of immunoglobulin gene regions encoding variable regions of the light and heavy chains in B lymphocytes following antigen stimulation. AID is discussed for example in Smith et al. 20 224 227 2004 .

SHM can operate on non immunoglobulin genes provided they are being transcribed at a high enough rate Bachl J. Carlson C. Gray Schopfer V. Dessing M. Olsson C. Increased transcription levels induce higher mutation rates in a hypermutating cell line. 166 5051 7 2001 Wang C. L. Harper R. A. Wabl M. Genome wide somatic hypermutation. 101 7352 7356 2004 .

Cells capable of supporting SHM include B cells e.g. a bone marrow derived lymphocyte or a cell of a cell line derived from such a lymphocyte and include such B cells as cells of the cell lines Burkitt lymphoma cell line Ramos cells ATCC No. CRL 1596 BL2 cells and BL41 cells Sale et al. 9 859 869 1998 chicken DT40 cells ATCC No. CRL 2111 Sale et al. 412 921 926 2001 CL 01 cells Zan et al. 162 3437 3447 1999 and pre B cells such as cells of the pre B cell line 18 81 Bachl et al. 166 5051 5057 2001 .

A polynucleotide message encoding a target polypeptide may include an inducible promoter. For example activity of an inducible promoter may be a induced by or dependent upon a compound that may be provided such as doxycycline lactose or other compound. For example an inducible promoter suitable for the practice of the inventive methods may be a doxycycline dependent TET ON promoter Landis et al. 158 1167 1176 2001 . An inducible promoter provides high levels of expression of the target polypeptide encoded by nucleic acid operatively linked to or under the influence of the promoter under inducing conditions e.g. in the presence of an inducing agent yet also provides for lower expression levels if desired e.g. at times where expansion of a population of cells may be desired with lower expression rates lower expression rates providing lower SHM mutation rates .

In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein a method for engineering a nucleic acid encoding a desired protein may comprise a introducing a polynucleotide encoding a target polypeptide into a cell capable of supporting somatic hypermutation e.g. a cell having activation induced cytidine deaminase AID and error prone DNA repair b inducing expression of mutant target protein variations c selecting for cells with desired property or properties d optionally inducing expression of mutant target protein variations in selected cells e optionally selecting for cells with desired property or properties f isolating desired polynucleotide produced by selected cells and or isolating nucleic acid encoding desired target protein from selected cells and optionally other steps.

Engineering a polypeptide may be desirable where a target property may be improved or enhanced or where reduction or elimination of a non desirable target property is sought. In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein a method for engineering a method of engineering a polypeptide having desired properties may comprise a introducing a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having a detectable target property into a cell capable of supporting somatic hypermutation b inducing expression of mutant target polypeptides variations c selecting for cells having a desired property or properties based on said detectable property d optionally inducing expression of mutant target protein variations in selected cells e optionally selecting for cells having a desired property or properties based on said detectable property f isolating desired polypeptides produced by selected cells and or isolating nucleic acid encoding desired target protein from selected cells and optionally other steps.

A desired property may be fluorescence which is also a detectable property. Thus the methods disclosed herein may be used to provide a variant fluorescent protein related to a parent fluorescent protein the variant fluorescent protein having improved properties as compared to the parent fluorescent protein. As used herein reference to a related fluorescent protein to a fluorescent protein variant or the like refers to a fluorescent protein that has a substantially identical amino acid sequence when compared to a reference fluorescent protein e.g. a parent fluorescent protein . In general a related fluorescent protein when compared to the reference fluorescent protein sequence has a contiguous sequence of at least about 150 amino acids that shares at least about 85 sequence identity with the reference fluorescent protein and particularly has a contiguous sequence of at least about 200 amino acids that shares at least about 95 sequence identity with the reference fluorescent protein. For example an related fluorescent protein an related fluorescent protein variant a GFP related fluorescent protein a GFP variant and the like may be exemplified by the various spectral variants and GFP mutants that have amino acid sequences that are substantially identical to GFP see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 625 048 5 777 079 6 066 476 6 319 669 6 800 733 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein . Similarly a related fluorescent protein a related fluorescent protein variant a DsRed related fluorescent related protein a DsRed variant and the like which is exemplified by the various mutants that have amino acid sequences substantially identical to that of DsRed see e.g. United States Patent Application Publication Nos. 20030032088 20030059835 and 20030170911 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein and the like for example a related fluorescent protein or a related fluorescent protein.

A useful parent fluorescent protein is the red fluorescent protein mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 and useful fluorescent protein variants may be variants of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 . In some embodiments a useful protein variant is selected from the group of variants including mPlum SEQ ID NO 3 and mRaspberry SEQ ID NO 5 .

Some of the aspects and embodiments disclosed herein may be better understood with reference to the accompanying examples which are intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed as in any sense limiting the scope of the disclosure as claimed in the claims appended hereto.

The use of SHM to generate useful genetic diversity into a foreign gene is illustrated in this Example. A general scheme for the use of SHM to generate polypeptide variants is illustrated in . A target gene is included in a nucleic acid message also including at least one promoter shown are CMV and TET ON promoters . Cells capable of supporting SHM shown here as Ramos cells are transfected with the message and induced to express the target gene at high levels induction is shown here by addition of doxycycline . Induction of high levels of gene expression induces or enhances SHM. Cells are screened for a selected phenotype such as the presence of a variant target gene product or variants of the target gene product having desired properties and cells meeting selection criteria are selected. Selected cells are allowed to proliferate in non inducing conditions shown here as the absence of doxycycline . Mutants having desired properties may be harvested at this point. Alternatively or in addition selected cells including a population of selected cells after the proliferation step may again be Subjected to induction of high levels of gene expression as indicated by the arrow in returning to the position above the phrase Add doxycycline to induce high level gene expression and SHM. As indicated by the method may be an iterative one allowing multiple repetitions of steps to allow for further refinement of variant gene products or for selection of one or more gene products having multiple desired properties.

mRFP1.2 gene was amplified with primer LW5 5 CGCGGATCCGCCACCATGGTGAGCAAGGGC 3 SEQ ID NO 7 and LW3 5 CCATCGATTTAGGCGCCGGTGGAGTGGCG 3 SEQ ID NO 8 digested with Bam HI and Cla I and ligated into a precut pCL NCX Imgenex San Diego Calif. derivative retroviral vector in which the CMV promoter was replaced with the inducible TET ON promoter. The nucleic acid sequence of mRFP1.2 is given by SEQ ID NO 2. The resultant plasmid pCLT mRFP was cotransfected with pCL Ampho Imgenex into 293 cells to make the retrovirus which was subsequently used to infect Ramos cells CRL 1596 AMERICAN TYPE CULTURE COLLECTION ATCC Manassas Va. together with another retrovirus harbouring the reverse Tet controlled transactivator. Doxycycline 2 glmL was added to induce the expression of mRFP and infected cells were sorted with FACS for 6 rounds to enrich red fluorescent cells. In the initial sort 

Ramos cells were grown in modified RPMI 1640 medium as suggested by ATCC. Doxycycline 2 g mL was added 24 hours before FACS sorting. For ratio sorting the cells were excited at 568 nm and two emission filters 660 40 and 615 40 were used. The ratio of intensity at 660 nm to that at 615 nm was plotted against the intensity of 660 nm. Cells having the highest ratio and sufficient intensity at 660 nm were collected . Usually 1 million cells were collected each time and they were grown in the absence of doxycycline until 24 hours before the next round of sorting.

Doxycycline 0.1 glmL was added to amplified cells for 10 hours. Total mRNA was extracted from these cells and used as template for RT PCR to clone mRFP mutant DNA with primer pCL5 5 AGCTCGTTTAGTGAACCGTCAGATC 3 SEQ ID NO 9 and pCL3 5 GGTCTTTCATTCCCCCCTTTTTCTGGAG 3 SEQ ID NO 10 . These mutant mRFP genes were subcloned into a pBAD vector Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and expressed in . A His6 tag was added to the G terminus to facilitate protein purification using Ni NTA chromatography Qiagen Valencia Calif. . Spectroscopic measurements were as described previously Baird et al. 97 11984 11989 2000 except that concentrations of mRFPs were determined by assuming an extinction coefficient after denaturation in 0.1M NaOH of 44 000 M cmat 452 nm the same value as for similarly denatured GFP Ward W. W. in Green Fluorescent Protein Properties Applications and Protocols. Chalfie M. Kain S. eds. pp. 45 75 John Wiley Sons New York 1998 Gross L. A. Baird G. S. Hoffman R. C. Baldridge K. K. Tsien R. Y. The structure of the chromophore within DsRed a red fluorescent protein from coral. 97 11990 11995 2000 .

Microdroplets of aqueous protein pH 7.4 typically 5 10 m diameter were created on a microscope cover slip under mineral oil and bleached using a Zeiss Axiovert 200 microscope at 14.3 W cmusing a 75 W xenon lamp and a 540 595 nm excitation filter. Reproducible results required pre extraction of the mineral oil with aqueous buffer shortly before microdroplet formation.

The Burkitt lymphoma Ramos was used in the experiments described in this Example. Methods used in this Example are described in Examples 1 5 and in the present Example. Ramos is a human B cell line that hypermutates its immunoglobulin V genes constitutively during culture Sale et al. 9 859 869 1998 CRL 1596 AMERICAN TYPE CULTURE COLLECTION ATCC Manassas Va. . The gene for a monomeric red fluorescent protein mRFPI.2 SEQ ID NO 1 Campbell et al. 99 7877 7882 200 was expressed as a single copy in Ramos under the control of a doxycycline inducible promoter TET ON so that SHM could be controlled by varying the transcription level. First fluorescent cells were enriched using 6 rounds of fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS of cells to which 2 glmL of doxycycline was added to induce Mrfp expression starting 24 h before each sort. A fluorescent cell population was established with more than 96 cells fluorescent. Sequencing of different clones revealed many mutations with features of SHM scattered throughout the target gene round 0 . Among 20 samples sequenced 12 of them had 1 to 3 mutations. Starting from this fluorescent population more than 15 of cells lost fluorescence when doxycycline was added for 120 hours whereas less than 5 lost fluorescence when doxycycline was present for only 24 hours suggesting that more transcription generated more mutations. In control HEK293 cells lacking SHM a similarly established fluorescent population did not change its fluorescence significantly upon such treatment.

Next whether an mRFP with red shifted emission could be evolved directly in Ramos was tested. The parental mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 fluoresces with a peak at 612 nm. A longer wavelength emission would confer greater tissue penetration and spectral separation from autofluorescence and other fluorescent proteins. In each sort a population of cells collected comprising about 5 of the population with the highest ratio of 660 nm to 615 nm emissions yet maintaining at least a minimum brightness at the former . Over 23 rounds of sorting and regrowth the emission maxima shifted to longer wavelengths in several steps . After each major step mutant mRFP genes were isolated sequenced B C and transferred to a standard bacterial expression system so that mutant proteins could be purified in larger quantities and characterized .

Typical fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS criteria for ratio sorting is illustrated in showing cell populations of round 1 10 and 20 in blue green and yellow respectively collected cells are highlighted in red . illustrates fluorescence emission maxima of the Ramos cell population in each cell sorting round. illustrates nucleotides mutated by somatic hypermutation SHM in different rounds evolution pathway of the mutant proteins twenty random samples were sequenced in round 0 8 in round 10 8 in round 14 and 12 in round 23 . Amino acid mutations quantum yields QY and extinction coefficients EC of different mutants are shown in . R10F5 represents mutant F5 from round 10. We named R10D6 as mRaspberry and R23H6 as mPlum . The amino acid and DNA sequences of mplum SEQ ID NO 3 and SEQ ID NO 4 and of mRaspberry SEQ ID NO 5 and SEQ ID NO 6 are shown in respectively.

A stereo view of mutation loci in mPlum based on the crystal structure of DsRed is shown in with the chromophore of RFP shown in red. Residues are highlighted in yellow for emission shift mutations and gray for neutral mutations.

The mutant with the longest emission wavelength dubbed mPlum SEQ ID NO 3 in view of its monomeric nature purplish appearance by reflected light and deep red glow peaked at 649 nm emission 37 nm longer than that of the starting mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 and 12 nm beyond the previous furthest red emitter the tandem dimer t HcRed1 Fradkov et al. 368 17 21 2002 . The absorbance and excitation maxima of mPlum SEQ ID NO 3 remain at 590 nm surprisingly unchanged from that of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 and identical to that for t HcRed1. The 59 nm Stokes shift is unusually large. The fluorescence quantum yield of 0.10 for mPlum SEQ ID NO 3 is somewhat lower than the fluorescence quantum yield of 0.25 of mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 but still well above that of t HcRed 0.04 . The largest wavelength of excitation 598 nm extinction coefficient 86 000 Mcm and quantum yield 0.15 were found in a round 10 mutant mnRaspberry SEQ ID NO 5 whose emission maximum was 625 nm. Furthermore all evolved mutants were considerably more resistant to photobleaching than the parental mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 . When exposed to a 14.3 W cmbeam around 568 nm light on a microscope stage microdroplets under oil of mPlum SEQ ID NO 3 and mRaspberry SEQ ID NO 5 respectively took 80 and 14 s to bleach to 50 of initial intensity 30 and 5.2 fold longer than mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 . The repeated FACS selection for cells exceeding a minimum brightness might have promoted photostability by discriminating against mutants that bleached significantly during the passage through the intense laser excitation spot.

DNA sequences of these mutants revealed the evolution pathway. Each round generated new mutations including silent ones . Within a round different clones share common mutations such as F65C and I161M in round 10 . Beneficial mutations were preserved from round to round such as I161M and V16E. Though thymine is not favored for SHM Martin et al. 2 605 614 2002 it was mutated to guanine or adenine in the F65 codon to generate Cys and Ile respectively indicating that beneficial mutations are not limited to those most frequent in SHM. Comparison of mutations with phenotypes indicates that alterations at position 16 and 65 gave rise to the dramatic red shift of the emission peak whereas mutations at position 124 and 161 mainly narrowed the emission width by shrinking the short wavelength side of the peak. The latter is a subtle beneficial effect which is usually difficult to achieve. When mapped on the crystal structure of DsRed Yarborough et al. 98 462 467 2001 from which mRFP1.2 SEQ ID NO 1 was derived residue 65 just precedes the chromophore. Residue 16 and 161 are located at the opposite ends of the chromophore with side chains facing it. Residue 124 also faces inward the helix bearing the chromophore. Mutation of these residues could directly perturb the chromophore s microenvironment resulting in emission shift. In contrast residues 17 45 and 166 face away the chromophore and thus their major contribution is to improve protein folding and brightness.

Parallel experiments using random mutagenesis or rational design based on crystal structure have not yet generated m RFP mutants with emission maxima beyond 632 nm suggesting that SHM can solve challenging problems in global searching. In addition traditional in vitro saturation mutagenesis at each locus identified by SHM produced no further increase in emission wavelengths. Instead most mutations resulted in either fluorescence loss or blue shift. For example the emission spectra in show that SHM found the optimum substitutions at position 65 and 124. Furthermore several residues such as T127 and K166 were mutated in some but not all SHM clones. Saturation mutagenesis at these loci indicated that they are neutral i.e. do not affect emission wavelength . These results suggest our method is able to identify and locally optimize critical residues to cope with the selection pressure.

Saturation mutagenesis analysis of positions identified by SHM in mPlum is shown in showing fluorescence emission spectra of mutants with different mutations at position 65. All mutations different from the SHM identified Ile dramatically blue shift the emission. illustrates fluorescence emission spectra of mutants with different mutations at position 124 and 127. Mutations at position 124 different from the SHM identified Val broaden the emission peak to the short wavelength side. Regardless of the mutations at position 127 mutants with Leu or Cys at position 124 overlap and mutants with Val at position 124 also overlap.

SHM in vivo is believed to focus on just the V region of immunoglobulin genes. How this locus specificity is achieved is under debate Smith et al. 20 224 227 2004 . Sequences from immunoglobulin introns and enhancers have been proposed to facilitate the targeting Betz et al. 77 239 248 1994 . The absence of any such cis elements in our construct suggests that these elements are not required for SHM in Ramos cells. In analogous experiments we find that a GFP from the copepod Shagin et al. 21 841 850 2004 also undergoes SHM in chicken DT40 cells a different hypermutating B cell line Sale et al. 412 921 926 2001 . SHM in a pre B cell line supplemented with AID can repair a deliberately crippled mutant of GFP integrated anywhere in the genome remote from Ig elements Wang et al. 101 7352 7356 2004 . Thus three B cell related lines can mutate completely foreign genes encoding fluorescent proteins from three different species in the present case producing new and desirable phenotypes difficult or impossible to find by conventional mutagenesis. Catalytic antibodies Schultz et al. 41 4427 4437 1992 have been the showcase for using the immune system to evolve functions remote from immunology but the repertoire of B cell creativity has now expanded outside immunoglobulins. SHM mediated protein evolution in live cells obviates labor intensive in vitro mutagenesis and screening samples a large protein space and directly links genotype to cell phenotypes. An engineered error prone DNA polymerase I can perform somewhat analogous targeted mutagenesis on multicopy colE1 plasmids in bacteria Camps et al. 100 9727 9732 2003 but SHM works on single copy integrants in well established mammalian cell lines. SHM should provide a general strategy to evolve many other proteins especially those whose function is best assessed in live mammalian cells.

All publications GenBank Accession Number sequence submissions patents and published patent applications mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. Various modifications and variations of the described compositions and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with various specific embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in protein chemistry or molecular biological arts or related fields are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

