---

title: Method and apparatus for providing pulses inhalation of Ofor magnetic resonance imaging of cerebral metabolism
abstract: Prior approaches have delivered Oto a subject by inhalation, but the relationship between local signal changes and metabolism has been complicated by HO created in non-cerebral tissues. During a brief pulse of Oinhalation, this arterial input function for HO is negligible due to convective transport delays. Additional delays in the arterial input function due to restricted diffusion of water makes pulsed inhalation of Oeven more effective. Accordingly, ventilator system are provided to deliver Oas a brief pulse to a subject. Subsequent MR imaging demonstrates delayed appearance of HO in the cerebral ventricles, suggesting that the arterial input function of HO is delayed by restricted water diffusion in addition to convective transit delays. Delivery as a brief pulse therefore offers significant advantages in relating MR signal changes directly to metabolism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554305&OS=08554305&RS=08554305
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08554305
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2008 070411 filed Jul. 18 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 951 118 filed Jul. 20 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention was supported in part by Grant Nos. R01EB004349 02 R Reddy PI and RR02305 from the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to methods and apparatuses for magnetic resonance imaging MRI as well as methods and apparatuses for delivery of gases by inhalation.

Recently several investigators have explored the use of O for magnetic resonance NMR imaging of the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen consumption CMRO . For example see Arai et al. in 17 169 153 8 1990 Fiat et al. in 1726 803 8 2004 Hopkins et al. in 17 7 222 9 1988 Ogawa et al. in 14 68 78 1990 Pekar et al. in 1721 313 9 1991 Reddy et al. in 171 108 276 9 1995 and Zhu et al. in 1718 83 103 2005. Of the three naturally occurring isotopes of oxygen only O a stable non toxic isotope is NMR active. This nucleus has a 0.037 natural abundance is relatively NMR insensitive and has short relaxation times due to the quadrupolar interactions of the spin 5 2 nucleus. Gaseous O whether dissolved in plasma or tissue or bound to hemoglobin is invisible to NMR detection. The HO that is produced from Ometabolism however is detectable by NMR and can be measured either directly around the O Larmor frequency or with greater sensitivity by measuring the changes in Tor T weighted proton NMR signal caused by O H scalar coupling and proton chemical exchange. In contrast to other methods for imaging CMRO therefore O approaches can detect metabolically generated labeled water without any contributions to the signal from labeled molecular oxygen.

The simplest way to deliver Ogas is by inhalation as reported previously by Arai et al. in 17 179 954 61 1991 Fiat et al. in 172. 2 172 1715 7 22 1993 Fiat et al. in 171. 14 303 11 1992 Tailor et al. in 2 17172 22 611 8 2004 Zhang et al. in 17172 24 840 8 2004 and Zhu et al. in 17 99 13194 9 2002. For quantitative measurement of CMRO gas mixtures enriched with Ohave been administered typically as a pulse over a time period ranging from 2 minutes to 40 minutes. During this period of inhaling gas enriched in O the O is delivered to all tissues and metabolized in the mitochondria to produce HO. The change in local MRI signal is directly proportional to the amount of labeled water and the rate of HO production is in turn directly related to oxygen metabolism in the region of interest. The HO however does not just accumulate at the site of its production in the mitochondria but also diffuses out of the local tissue to the venous circulation. Additionally HO produced in tissues outside of the region of interest ROI diffuse to their local venous circulations and are then convectively transported to arterial blood. This HO produced in other tissues enters the ROI in the arterial circulation and also diffuses into tissue in the local ROI. The resulting signal is therefore a complex combination of the water production from the local CMROof interest along with water migration into and out of the tissue. Interpreting the MRI signal in terms of local CMROspecifically therefore can be difficult.

The present invention is directed to an alternative approach that delivers the Oin a very brief pulse on the order of 1 minute or less. Owing to time lags for both convection and diffusion HO produced outside of the ROI should not have time to enter the ROI before local production of HO has commenced. During a short enough delivery interval therefore the regional signal should be much simpler to interpret primarily determined by water formed locally from the O. However systems for mechanical ventilation are not usually designed to make a sharp step change in gas concentration for example the pulse of Odesired in the CMROapplication. Additionally ventilator circuits are not usually provided with a way to selectively recover parts of exhaled gas which is enriched with very expensive Oduring the pulsed administration. The present invention is directed to these needs in the art.

Provide are inter alia systems for mechanical ventilation that is capable of making rapid step changes in gas concentration. Methods of using such systems for the use of O to image regional CMROis also described.

According to one aspect of the present invention methods of delivering O for the purpose of MRI imaging are provided. A pulse of Ois administered by inhalation to a patient. The pulse comprises a step increase in Oconcentration. The step increase may be performed such that the patient is administered non enriched oxygen followed by a step increase to approximately 100 O enriched oxygen. The duration of the pulse may be selected to be less than the diffusion time of metabolized HO to the region of interest to be imaged. If the pulse has a properly chosen duration then owing to time lags for both convection and diffusion HO produced outside of the ROI should not have time to enter the ROI before local production of HO has commenced. During a short enough delivery interval therefore the regional MR imaging signal should be much simpler to interpret primarily determined by water formed from the Ometabolized in the ROI. Accordingly the duration of the pulse may be relatively short for example on the order of 30 to 60 seconds. MR imaging may be performed during this 30 to 60 second period in order to provide a regional NMR signal free of the effects of convection and diffusion. In addition the need to measure the input function for Ocan be eliminated by monitoring exhaled breath.

According to another aspect of the present invention apparatuses are provided to enable a pulse of Oto be delivered by inhalation to a patient. Systems for mechanical ventilation are not usually designed to make a sharp step change in gas concentration for example the pulse of Oused in the described method. Creating a sharp step in gas concentration at the airway imposes several restrictions on the ventilator and the breathing circuit. Tubing diameters should be small to minimize transit times and minimize diffusive slurring of concentration fronts. Sudden expansions and contractions in tubing diameter such as might be found in typical one way valves are to be avoided. Flow should be unidirectional with no rebreathing of exhaled gas. An exhalation pump is preferably used to maintain the exhaled gas at a pressure and adjusting the pump speed of the exhalation pump to maintain the output pressure. Additionally ventilator circuits are not usually provided with a way to selectively recover parts of exhaled gas. Recovery of exhaled gas is desired for instance when the exhaled gas is enriched with very expensive Oduring the pulsed administration. A sampling bag that receives the exhaled gases after COscrubbing may be used for this purpose. The apparatus for mechanical ventilation provided according to an aspect of the present invention is thus capable of making rapid step changes in gas concentration and therefore may be used with O to image regional CMRO. It should be understood that the ventilation system described herein may be used with other gases and for other applications in which rapid step changes in gas concentration are desired and to provide recovery of exhaled gas such as functional residual capacity FRC determination from inert gas washout.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific products methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention.

In the present disclosure the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to an pulse is a reference to one or more of such pulses and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. When values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment.

The disclosures of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Pulsed delivery of Ogas in large animals and humans requires a system for mechanical ventilation that has the capability to produce rapid step changes in gas concentration to prevent rebreathing of exhaled gases that could slur step changes in gas concentrations to provide maximal recovery of exhaled gas that is partially enriched in O to provide minimal circuit priming volume to switch from one gas mixture to another to provide long tubing between the ventilator mechanical apparatus outside an MRI scanner and the subject inside the scanner to provide switching between gases with no stimulatory cues to the subject to provide comfortable support of spontaneous breathing in awake subjects the to provide controlled mechanical ventilation in anesthetized subjects.

During operation of the system of gases are pumped to and from the subject by two large peristaltic pumps and Cole Parmer Chicago Ill. Masterflex I P digital drive with dual standard pump heads and silicone I P tubing with pump for assisting or controlling inhalation and pump for assisting or controlling exhalation. The pumps outside of the MRI scanner are connected to the subject inside the MRI scanner by for example 25 feet of 0.25 inch ID Tygon tubing Cole Parmer L S 17 . Pressure at the subject s airway is transmitted by 0.125 inch ID nylon tubing to pressure transducer Freescale Semiconductor Chandler Ariz. MPX2010DP with signal amplification by a custom op amp circuit not shown . Information on airway pressure is transmitted by pressure transducer via a multifunction DAQ device National Instruments Austin Tex. USB 6008 to computer which uses feedback control to adjust the pump speeds for both pumps during assisted spontaneous ventilation and for the exhalation pump during volume controlled mechanical ventilation Inhaled gases are chosen via computer controlled stream select valve VICI Valco Instruments Houston Tex. Model C45 to select air regular 100 O or oxygen with enriched O. The oxygen gases are sealed in Tedlar gas sampling bags Cole Parmer . Exhaled air can be directed via stream select valve to either waste or to recovery of the partially enriched Ogas sampling bag during and after an administered pulse. Carbon dioxide absorbent removes COfrom the recovered exhaled gas.

The long tubing connections between the mechanical components and the subject required a significant departure from prior approaches to mechanical ventilation. Although a wide variety of ventilator modes are available from conventional ventilators exhalation is almost universally passive i.e. the exhalation pressure at the ventilator is set to a prescribed value and the lungs exhale passively against that exhalation pressure. Ventilator exhalation tubing is usually sized in a large enough diameter to make expiratory flow resistance negligible thus keeping the pressure at the airway equivalent to the set exhalation pressure in the ventilator. For the system of however large bore exhalation tubing would greatly increase the circuit priming volume and would also tend to slur any sharp concentration fronts in the exhalation limb making clean recovery of partially enriched Omore difficult. Passive exhalation therefore leads to design requirements for the exhalation tubing that are fundamentally at odds with the requirement for efficient use and recovery of the expensive Ogas. The system depicted in approaches these problems by actively assisting exhalation as well as inhalation. Pressure at the airway is monitored and fed back to the control system which then adjusts the exhalation pump speed. The target exhalation pressure at the airway can then be specified at any given level and for the subject it appears they are exhaling passively at that pressure even though the pressure required at the end of the exhalation tubing varies markedly according to expiratory flow rate.

At the inspiratory side mechanical ventilators typically have a gas bellows that slurs rapid step changes in gas concentration see Huygen et al. in Design and validation of an indicator gas injector for multiple gas washout tests in mechanically ventilated patients Crit. Care Med. 18 754 9 1990 and again increases the circuit priming volume. Accordingly an additional roller pump not shown was used to eliminate the reservoir volume and to avoid any large changes in tubing diameter helping to preserve step changes in gas concentration. The use of inspiratory pump also does not require pressurized gas sources an advantage in developmental experimental work where a single mishap with a gas tank regulator could result in a large waste of precious Ogas.

The system for mechanical ventilation as illustrated in has been tested in two settings 1 testing in a human volunteer in spontaneous ventilation mode with use of helium as a surrogate for O and with monitoring of gas concentrations at the airway with a respiratory mass spectrometer and 2 testing in an anesthetized pig with controlled ventilation administration of O and MRI imaging of the brain.

A micropore membrane inlet probe with a silicone membrane was used as the inlet system for a quadrupole mass spectrometer Stanford Research Systems Sunnyvale Calif. RGA200 . Gas was drawn at 5 ml min over the MMIMS micropore membrane inlet mass spectrometry probe by a peristaltic pump not shown through 60 cm of 0.020 inch ID tubing between the sampling tip and the pore of the MMIMS probe . The time response of the inlet system and mass spectrometer were determined by placing the sample port in a stream of flowing gas directly downstream of a switching valve Valco Instruments Model C45 and switching the gas source from 0 to 100 helium. One could also measure concentrations at the patient s mouth with a respiratory mass spectrometer but this would add significant cost and complexity to the system.

A human volunteer breathed through the circuit in assisted spontaneous ventilation mode where both inspiratory and expiratory pump flows were controlled by the pressures generated at the airway by the subject. Airway gas concentration of helium was monitored throughout the experiment with the respiratory mass spectrometer . After switching to 100 Oand denitrogenation the inhalation valve was switched to a source gas of 100 helium and the change in gas concentration at the airway was recorded by the mass spectrometer . After two inhaled breaths of helium the source valve was switched back to 100 oxygen. Exhaled gas was directed by the exhalation valve to the recovered O gas sampling bag for these two breaths of helium and for the following three breaths. Helium concentration in the recovered O bag was then measured with the respiratory mass spectrometer .

To further test the apparatus a 70 Kg Yorkshire pig was anesthetized with intramuscular doses of ketamine 25 mg Kg and xylazine 2.5 mg Kg and orally intubated. General anesthesia was maintained throughout the experiment with intravenous doses of ketamine 1 2 mg Kg hr and diazepam 0.5 1 mg Kg hr . Once placed in the MRI scanner in the prone position the endotracheal tube was connected to the circuit and mechanical ventilation commenced in volume control mode with a tidal volume of 16.2 ml Kg a respiratory rate of 6 breaths min I E ratio of 1 1 and zero end expiratory pressure. After collecting baseline images on room air the source valve was switched to 100 O. After 5 minutes to allow for denitrogenation further baseline images were obtained while breathing 100 oxygen. The source valve was switched to Ofor 2 breaths 40 enrichment Isotec Miamisburg Ohio and then back to 100 O during continuous acquisition of images at a frequency of 1 image per 23 seconds. Exhaled gas was recovered in the exhalation bag for the 2 breaths of Oand the following 3 breaths.

The time course of the arterial concentration of Oduring this pulsed delivery of Owas estimated with a simple model of the kinetics of alveolar gas concentration changes. If it is assumed that tidal gas mixes completely on entering the alveolus the changes in average alveolar concentration will be determined by the inspiratory flow rate and the end expiratory lung volume. Changes in alveolar gas concentrations due to blood uptake both in inspiration and expiration were neglected. The alveolar gas concentration was therefore modeled as increasing during the two Oinhalations in two steps with steady plateaus during exhalation. After the Obreaths the decrease in average alveolar concentration was modeled as a similar series of decays. Finally the assumption was made that arterial gas concentrations follow the same time course as the alveolar gas changes i.e. it was assumed that arterial Oconcentrations were in equilibrium with average alveolar Oconcentrations.

The MRI scanner in an exemplary embodiment has a magnetic field strength of 1.5 Tesla and is equipped with a standard receive only human birdcage design head coil. In the experimental setup the full body transmitter was used for transmission. A standard T1 weighted localizer sequence was run to find a suitable coronal image of the middle portion of the pig brain that included cortex brainstem and ventricle. A T1 weighted MP RAGE sequence was performed to obtain an anatomical image of the desired slice. Comfortable breathing and stable imaging were confirmed by five minutes of room air breathing during serial T weighted images. The Tsequence used was based on turbo spin echo following a phase alternating spin lock cluster. Sequence parameters were as follows TR TE 2000 12 ms field of view 20 cm 256 128 matrix 5 mm slice thickness echo train length 13 averages 1 bandwidth 130 Hz Px turbo spin lock pulse amplitude 200 Hz spin lock pulse length 120 ms scan time 23 sec image. Images were acquired continuously from the single 5 mm thick coronal slice throughout the Obreathing and the Opulse.

The inhalation and exhalation pump flow changes in response to changes in airway pressure were adequate to provide subjectively comfortable spontaneous breathing in the normal human subject. illustrates the intrinsic mass spectrometer time response for a 0 100 step in helium partial pressure solid circles and measured change helium partial pressure at the airway after a switch from 100 oxygen to 100 helium in the complete breathing circuit open circles . Both step responses are fit with a monoexponential rise for measuring the 0 90 response time. As shown in the 0 90 response time of the respiratory mass spectrometer was 2.2 seconds. The step change in gas concentration at the airway provided by the ventilator circuit was fast enough to approach the temporal resolution of the mass spectrometer with a measured 0 90 response time of 4.0 seconds. After correction for the mass spectrometer time response by deconvolution the estimated 0 90 response time at the airway was 2.4 seconds.

The time course of helium concentration changes at the airway during two breaths of helium are shown in with labeling of the phases of the respiratory cycle. The measured end tidal helium concentration after a single deep breath was 41 . After further practice by the subject breathing as deeply as possible with the ventilator system the end tidal helium after a single deep breath was 48 . This compares favorably with an estimate based on lung volumes determined from standard nomograms. For a normal human subject 1.85 meters tall exhaling deeply and inhaling deeply residual volume is predicted to be 2.41 liters tidal volume can be estimated by the predicted forced vital capacity FVC at 4.94 liters and anatomic deadspace volume is predicted to be 156 ml giving an estimated end tidal helium concentration of 65 after a single deep breath of helium. The slightly reduced measured end tidal concentration compared to predicted norms is consistent with slight residual circuit breathing resistance compared to the apparatus typically used to measure FVC.

The measured concentration of helium in the recovered O gas sampling bag was 47 . The recovered gas concentration can also be reasonably predicted by a simple model of gas exhalation. For a tidal volume end expiratory volume and deadspace volume predicted by nomograms as above and treating the exhaled gas profile as a deadspace with the inhaled gas concentration followed by a constant alveolar plateau at the end tidal gas concentration the predicted helium concentration in the recovered bag was 40 .

The MR image of the selected coronal slice from the MP RAGE sequence showing the relevant anatomic structures is presented in while shows signal decreases after the beginning of the Obreaths overlaid on the structural brain image. Overlay of the signal decreases ranging from 0 decrease to 1 decrease an average of 40 50 seconds after the start of the Obreaths as determined by indirect T imaging with a spin lock sequence. Thus the duration of the pulse may be relatively short for example on the order of 30 to 60 seconds. For the HO images 3 sequential images 23 seconds per image after the beginning of the Opulse are averaged and compared to the baseline breathing Oimmediately before the Opulse. Metabolic production of HO is expected to decrease the signal compared to baseline as suggested in several brain regions notably regions of parietal cortex bilaterally. It should be noted however that statistical analysis of sequential time series data in any given parenchymal regions of interest did not show a statistically significant signal decrease owing to the low signal to noise ratio with the specified imaging parameters.

The time course of arterial Oconcentrations estimated from a model of alveolar gas dilution appendix is shown in . Parameters for the gas dilution model include tidal volume and end expiratory volume. Inspiratory tidal volume is measured from the calibrated output of the inhalation pump . As shown in time courses of the calculated arterial Oconcentration changes steps and plateaus along with a smoothed fit to the data determined by non linear regression. The fitted function y K k k k exp kt exp kt is a standard single compartment pharmacokinetic model with exponential washin and washout where kand kare absorption and elimination constants. Best fit parameters are K 0.481 atm k 0.0523 sec and k 0.0524 sec. At an end exhalation pressure of zero the relevant end expiratory volume is the functional residual capacity FRC which was estimated as 17.3 ml Kg. shows the results from the alveolar dilution model with the Ochanges occurring as a series of step increases and decreases during inspiration followed by plateaus during exhalation. The smoothed fit in facilitates the visualization of the Okinetics in the longer time scale of where the Okinetics and normalized ventricular HO kinetics are superposed. As shown in the time course of a smoothed estimate of the arterial Oinput function solid line is superposed with the measured time course of the decrease in signal in the cerebral ventricle solid circles normalized to the signal for the entire brain. The steady state signal in the ventricle is reduced compared to baseline as a consequence of the larger decrease in MR signal for HO in CSF compared to HO in tissue. The decrease in scaled signal in the cerebral ventricle is delayed for about 110 seconds after the initial inhalation of O. The delay in the ventricular signal decrease after the initial Obreaths of about 110 seconds is readily apparent.

First the water produced in mitochondria of other tissues must diffuse to the capillaries and venules. This time lag is again proportional to D but now with the diffusivity of water in tissue. Estimation of this diffusion lag for water is not as straightforward as the diffusion lag for oxygen because the appropriate water diffusivity in tissue is not known with any precision. If the relevant diffusivity is the average isotropic diffusivity of water in cortex reported to be around 0.7 10cm sec Neil J. J. Miller P. Mukherjee and P. S. Huppi. 15 543 52 2002 the 0 90 response time for a change in capillary concentration after a step change at the mitochondria is estimated as 430 milliseconds again negligible for all but the briefest pulses. Diffusion of water through lipid bilayers however is known to be restricted and the newly generated HO may be substantially delayed in traversing first the mitochondrial then the plasma and finally the capillary endothelial membranes to reach the venous circulation Inner mitochondrial membrane of hepatocytes has been reported to contain aquaporin 8 AQP8 channels that should substantially increase the water permeability but the magnitude of this effect in intact mitochondria and whether AQP8 is present in mitochondria of other cells is not currently known. For brain it has been recently reported by Zhu et al. that the washout of HO generated metabolically inside the mitochondria is substantially slower than the washout of HO delivered into tissue by an arterial bolus suggesting restricted diffusion through the mitochondrial membrane. An additional factor that would delay the appearance of water in the venous circulation is the increased average diffusing distance in most non cerebral tissues which generally have a lower metabolic activity and lower capillary density than brain with the exception of heart and maximally exercising skeletal muscle.

After this diffusional delay there is an additional delay for convective transport from the venous drainage of tissue to the right heart through the lungs and left heart and to the arterial circulation in the ROI. For a normal sized adult human a typical venous to arterial transit time is in the range of 10 18 seconds with a slightly longer time required for transit from systemic capillaries to cerebral arterioles. One would expect a similar convective time lag in a 70 Kg pig. The time delay for the appearance of HO in the arterial circulation is therefore predicted to be on the order of at least 10 15 seconds with longer delays if water diffusion in tissue is restricted. More restricted diffusion of water in tissue translates into longer delays in the HO arterial input function as well as delayed egress of locally produced HO in the brain which in turn would increase the effectiveness of pulsing the Odelivery.

The definitive data for determining the delay in the HO arterial input function in this large animal subject would be a direct measurement of HO in a large artery in the field of view but this is currently beyond the spatial resolution and signal to noise ratio limits of the inventors imaging apparatus. The normalized signal for the cerebral ventricle however does suggest a substantial diffusion delay. The ventricle is a good ROI for detecting small signals in a large noise background for several reasons. First for equal concentrations of HO in CSF and in tissue the MR signal decrease is expected to be different in CSF versus tissue. Therefore after a pulse of O once a new steady state is achieved with equal HO concentrations throughout the body the scaled steady state signal for CSF will be changed compared to baseline even when normalized to the whole brain signal. Normalizing the signal from the ventricle to the signal from the entire brain improves the SNR by negating global artifacts such as such as scanner start up transients and artifacts from small movements during the sequential images. Second the ventricle is a relatively large and homogenous structure with easily recognized borders and with many voxels for signal averaging.

HO can enter the ventricle by three routes direct secretion by choroid plexus diffusion from mitochondria adjacent to the ventricle and diffusion from choroid capillaries once the systemic arterial and capillary concentrations of HO have increased. Secretion by choroid plexus is a slow process and can be neglected on a time scale of several minutes. Diffusing distances from the HO produced in adjacent mitochondria however are small as are the diffusion distances between choroid plexus capillaries and CSF. The measured delay in ventricular signal decrease of approximately 110 seconds therefore suggests that water diffusion in tissue is not free but substantially restricted and also suggests that the arterial input function of HO is delayed beyond the 10 15 seconds of convective delay.

Although delivering Oas a brief pulse can simplify the interpretation of the MRI signal it also presents some substantial challenges. For example the pulse creates a sharp step change in gas concentration in the ventilator circuit and complicates estimating the time course of arterial Oconcentrations acquiring MRI images with adequate time resolution and SNR and quantitatively determining CMROfrom the MRI signal. These issues are addressed below.

Meeting the requirements for mechanical ventilation in accordance with the techniques of the invention requires a substantial departure from prior ventilators. Creating a sharp step in gas concentration at the airway imposes several restrictions on the ventilator and the breathing circuit. Tubing diameters should be small to minimize transit times and minimize diffusive slurring of concentration fronts. Sudden expansions and contractions in tubing diameter such as might be found in typical one way valves are to be avoided. Flow should be unidirectional with no rebreathing of exhaled gas. The ventilator system presented here is clearly capable of a rapid step change in gas concentration as shown in . Of note there are other applications that could benefit from the ability to make a sharp step change in gas concentration such as FRC determination from inert gas washout.

After a step change in gas concentration at the airway kinetics of gas dilution in the lung become the major determinant of the time course of both alveolar and arterial changes in Oconcentrations. The arterial Okinetics may be estimated with a simple model of this gas dilution that includes the known inspiratory flow pattern from the inhalation pump. This model estimates the time course of arterial Oconcentrations as a function of time by determining from nomograms for lung volumes the measured inspiratory flow pattern and the known inspired Oconcentration using established principles of alveolar gas mixing. In the general case the approximation can be obtained easily with the evaluation of 2 integrals. In the particular case examined here with fixed inspiratory concentration and constant inspiratory flow the integrals reduce to a simple algebraic equation for alveolar Oconcentration that can be applied recursively to estimate the arterial Oinput function over several breaths.

At end exhalation the lung is filled with a residual alveolar volume as well as deadspace volume in the airways. It is assumed that these two gas volumes are well mixed and at the same gas concentration at the end of exhalation. During the first part of inspiration the deadspace gas re enters the alveolus with no change in alveolar gas concentration. It is assumed as an approximation that the inspired gas deadspace gas interface is transmitted to the alveolus as a sharp step change in concentration. At the moment this concentration front is entering the alveolus the alveolar gas volume is the end exhalation volume plus deadspace volume at the end exhalation gas concentration. From this point forward the total amount of Oin the alveolar space Y t at time t is given by 

Airways deadspace volume in the pig was estimated from a prior report by Uttman et al. in 2 23 252 6 2003 as was the end expiratory volume at zero end expiratory pressure by Ludwigs et al. in 41 71 7 1997. The ventilator system presents a fixed Opartial pressure throughout inspiration. In accordance with the methods described herein the target inspiratory flow was set to a constant value throughout inhalation with the constant inspiratory flow determined by the software to achieve a specified tidal volume. The peristaltic pump however takes about 1 second to accelerate from a speed of zero to the target speed. As a result for the settings in this study the first 1.25 seconds of inspiration delivered the deadspace volume and at all times after that the inspiratory flow rate was constant at 252 ml second. Taking 1.25 seconds into inspiration as t 0 the alveolar gas concentration changes in inspiration are therefore given simply by 

This model aims to incorporate the major features of this alveolar gas dilution and does not include several other features that have been presented in more elaborate models of alveolar gas kinetics. Some factors that could influence arterial Ochanges include 1 heterogeneity of alveolar gas concentrations 2 uptake and exchange of Owith pulmonary blood 3 changes in alveolar volumes and COconcentrations during exhalation 4 the slurred concentration front between tidal volume gas and alveolar gas and 5 factors such as mixing in the left ventricle that could slow arterial kinetics compared to alveolar kinetics See Yokota et al. in 340 291 306 1973 . The purpose here however is to present a reasonable approximation of the arterial Otime course that demonstrates the principles and potential of pulsed Odelivery. Gains to be had from adding more detail to the model would probably be small particularly in the absence of experimental data to test the modeling. No technology currently is capable of measuring alveolar Oconcentrations with high time resolution. Similarly no method has been reported for high temporal resolution measurements of Oin arterial blood although the MMIMS technology does offer some potential in this regard.

In order to develop signal contrast based on small differences in relaxation long times to echo or long spin locking times are required. However signal from the image decays during this relaxation resulting in images with inherently less signal to noise than conventional anatomic MR images. For example the signal to noise in this series of images was calculated to be about 15 1. To improve the SNR and temporal and spatial resolution other sequences to apply the T method to this application are currently being explored. Candidate sequences include spin lock pre encoding with gradient recalled echoes GRE echo planar imaging EPI spin echo echo planar imaging SE EPI and balanced steady state free precession readouts bSSFP . Long spin locking times also challenge the scanner hardware requirements because they magnify coil inhomogeneity B artifacts that are much less pronounced with more homogenous small animal scanners and coils.

The ultimate goal of the pulsed delivery of Ois to provide high resolution imaging of local oxygen metabolism. Quantitative determination of CMROrequires a mathematical model relating the time course of changes in local concentration of HO to oxygen metabolism. Zhu et al. have presented a comprehensive model of the relationship between local concentration of HO and CMRO based on the mass balance principles first developed by Kety and Schmidt in 27 476 483 1948. In their model the time rate of change of tissue HO concentration C t is directly related to CMRO plus terms that represent HO entering the ROI from recirculation and HO leaving the ROI in venous blood. During a brief enough pulse the arterial input function is identically zero greatly simplifying the model and its experimental application by deleting a major term. As a first order approximation venous losses can also be neglected on the grounds that water diffusion from the mitochondria tends to be restricted. As anticipated the resulting relationship between HO concentration and CMRO for a brief pulse is quite simple CMRO where C t and C t are the Oconcentrations in arterial blood as a function of time at times a and b and kis a conversion constant. Application of this simple model quantitatively requires adequate acquisition times to trace out the regional time course of HO as the arterial Ofunction is rapidly changing. For qualitative comparisons however the pulse approach does show potential for distinguishing areas of high versus low metabolism even with fairly slow image acquisition provided that the signal to noise ratio can be improved.

Experiments were designed to measure the kinetics of metabolically produced HO after conversion from Oin the swine brain and determine the time period during which there is no significant recirculation of HO from other regions. The experiments were also conducted with the aim of demonstrating the feasibility of measuring the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen consumption CMRO in swine with circulatory and respiratory systems similar to humans.

The methodology involved delivery of only about one tidal volume of Oby a custom minimal loss precision delivery breathing circuit. A model for gas arterial input function AIF is therefore presented for large animals. The AIF of recirculating metabolic water was measured by arterial blood sampling and O spectroscopy. The CMROwas estimated with rapid T1 weighted proton MRI on a 1.5 T clinical scanner as well as with O spectroscopy at 3 T.

It has been found that minimal metabolic water wash in occurs before 60 seconds after delivery. Hemispheric CMROis estimated during that time at 1.33 0.26 g g min consistent with existing literature values. Therefore it has been demonstrated that there is ample time before significant recirculation of metabolic HO to brain and use this information to compute the CMROin swine. The methodology developed herein can be easily adapted to human studies on standard clinical scanners.

The precision delivery circuit used was developed for gas experiments to provide step changes in concentration of gas at the mouth with precise timing and minimal gas loss. Its design appears schematically in . When used with large animals as in the experiments described here respiratory rate is set to 6 breaths min and a tidal volume of 18 times the weight in kg. In these experiments 1.2 times the tidal volume of enriched Owas diluted with nitrogen to a final concentration of 20 enriched Oand 80 Nand delivered over 6 breaths. Delivery begins at time 0 in all plots.

Briefly the Precision Delivery Circuit connects from outside the magnet room through three sets of tubing to the endotracheal tube of a large animal subject. The pressure line transmits the pressure at the mouthpiece back through 0.125 inch inner diameter tubing to a pressure transducer Freescale Semiconductor Chandler Ariz. MPX2010DP . That pressure transducer reports to custom written software in LabView via a multifunction data acquisition device after amplification by a custom operational amplifier circuit. The computer then uses those pressure measurements to adjust inhalation and exhalation pump speeds overcoming the resistance of 25 feet of 0.25 inch tubing. The inhalation line and exhalation line connect to large peristaltic pumps Cole Parmer Chicago Ill. Masterflex PP Digital Drive . The computer also controls valves VICI Valco Instruments Houston Tex. Model C45 that select the input gas or output flow for recapture or to vent to room air. Gases are kept at ambient pressure in bags filled before the experiment with low loss circuits to ensure that any error during the experiment will not result in the loss of large volumes of pressurized Ogas.

It is necessary to know or model the atomic percentage of O in the oxygen metabolized by cells because while the mHO rate of formation is measureable by MRI the fractional enrichment of the Ogenerating that water at the cellular level during that time is not known. This is not as much of a problem for small animals that breathe very rapidly and therefore equilibrate their lung gas with the inhaled gas rapidly. A simple step wise model was generated for estimating the fractional enrichment fa i of O in the lungs for each breath. Each step breath is modeled as an instantaneous inhalation mixing of Oin the lungs and exhalation via a simple dilution model with the addition of Ouptake into the body from the lungs. This is described by the following equation 

The derivation of Eq. 1 is as follows beginning with an incoming volume of O O ViO described by Eq. A1. Eq. A1 This volume adds to the O left in the lungs at the end of the previous exhalation VeO described by Eq. A2. 1 Eq. A2 To calculate feOone must approximate the amount of oxygen consumed during the breath. For simplicity it is assumed that the inhalation mixing and exhalation happen instantly to produce a step change and the oxygen consumption occurs on the post exhaled gas. This is given on a per breath basis by 

The results of this simulation the fractional enrichment of the O in the tissue after each breath are shown in . The time of delivery for the CMROestimates herein is 6 breaths 1 minute but data out to 15 breaths is shown to demonstrate the time to asymptote at the delivered enrichment. Delivery of gas begins at time 0 but a 10 second delay is given for breathing circuit delay mixing time and uptake and transport time of oxygen to the brain. The average of the area shaded in grey under the step function is used as f for computing CMROin Eqs. 6 and 7.

From the average of points at 10 seconds through 59 seconds these simulations estimate a mean of 63.58 of the delivered gas concentration being metabolized during the CMROcalculation time. The calculated average fractional enrichment at the tissue over the time of analysis is termed f.

The theory for calculation of CMRObased on Ois derived from flow measurements originally proposed by Kety Schmidt Kety S S Schmidt C F. 1948 27 4 476 483 and later applied to O Zhang N Zhu X H Lei H Ugurbil K Chen W. 17172 2004 24 8 840 848 Fiat D Kang S. 171. 1992 14 4 303 311 . As a brief summary CMRO mol g brain tissue min may be solved from 

All animal experiments were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Pigs weighing 19 kg to 41 kg were used. Induction of anesthesia was performed by an initial IM injection of ketamine 22 mg kg xylazine 0.025 mg kg and atropine 0.05 mg kg and maintained with ketamine 60 mg kg hr and diazepam 2 mg kg hr. Animal heart rate and oxygen saturation were monitored with a standard infrared pulse oximeter and full oxygen saturation 98 100 without fluctuation was required for the experiments to proceed. All experiments begin with T weighted sequence for localization and anatomical imaging of the brain.

Direct imaging was performed on a broadband enabled 3T Siemens Trio scanner. Proton images were taken with the body coil and then without moving the pig a custom built interface was connected to the scanner and interfaced with a home built 9 cm surface coil tuned to 16.71 MHz placed on top of the pig s head. Calibration of the rectangular pulse used was performed by taking a number of gradient recalled echo images and maximizing signal to noise over the brain region. One O image was taken in each plane. Parameters were as follows repetition time TR 100 ms TE 1.8 ms field of view FoV 40 40 cm 64 64 matrix bandwidth 200 Hz Pixel asymmetric echo. Following that a series of pulse acquire spectra were taken with the same hard pulse over 15 minutes. Pulse acquire parameters were TR 100 ms 256 points two step phase cycling 40 kHz bandwidth repeated 9000 times over 15 minutes.

Indirect imaging was performed on separate occasions on a 1.5T Siemens Sonata scanner. Images were taken with a 15 cm vendor supplied surface coil placed on the head of the pig. Serial images during room air and Odelivery were taken with a T prepared single shot high flip angle centrically encoded fully balanced gradient echo sequence reported shown in . A more thorough treatment of this sequence and its use to detect mHO in vivo are presented in a separate manuscript Mellon E A Beesam R S Kasam M Baumbardner J E Borthakur A Witschey W R Jr. Reddy R. 1 2008 in press . Parameters were TR 9.7 ms TE 4.7 ms slice thickness 6 mm FoV 200 mm 128 128 matrix bandwidth 130 Hz Pixel flip angle 180 opening pulse 90 spin locking amplitude 100 Hz spin locking time 75 or 200 ms fat saturation on time per image 1.6 seconds 2 second delay for Trecovery.

During imaging arterial blood sampling was performed on several occasions. An optimized protocol was developed and repeated. An arterial catheter was placed under ultrasound guidance into the femoral artery in the large animal fluoroscopy suite. Approximately 2 cc of blood was collected over 3 5 seconds into each Vacutainer Serum Separator Tube Becton Dickinson 367983 at a rate of one sample each 10 seconds for the first 12 samples and then 60 seconds each for six more samples. Four control samples were taken before the experiment began. The tubes used are designed to reseal immediately after needle puncture. Their ability to remain sealed was tested by taking several tubes at random creating a strong negative pressure inside the tube with a vacuum pump attached to a needle and then repeated puncture with larger diameter needles than used for blood sampling. The pressure inside the tubes was checked after over a dozen punctures and had changed less than 10 . Storage over a period of a week of a sampling of tubes showed no depressurization over time.

A concern is that water O will exchange with ambient COthrough bicarbonate ion a very fast reaction when catalyzed by carbonic anhydrase as in whole blood Mills G A Urey H C. 1940 62 5 1019 1026 . To minimize this effect serum was separated by centrifugation soon after the experiment. Tubes were then frozen at 20 C and kept sealed until the time of analysis. Centrifugation places a gel between the serum and red blood cells in these tubes to fully separate the two. This procedure serves to protect the samples in two ways. First because the tube is sealed blood can mix only with the small amount of CO 450 parts per million in the small amount of air 

An 11.7T Bruker DMX400 Avance Spectrometer equipped with a 1H X nucleus decoupler probe tuned to O was used to measure 1 mL of each sample loaded into 5 mm ID NMR tubes just before analysis. Spectra were recorded without lock at room temp. Five samples taken before the start of the experiment comprise the data point at time 0 assumed to be the natural abundance of HO with a standard deviation of 0.17 mol g serum. The parameters for O spectroscopy were TR 41 ms 4096 points bandwidth 50 kHz 4000 averages flip angle 90 .

For the direct measurement of mHO production the integrals of the pulse acquire spectra from 4 averages per data point 400 ms each were normalized to the natural abundance. The signal trace during Odelivery was fit linearly over 50 seconds beginning 10 seconds after the start of the Opulse to generate the mHO production in Table 1. The slope and standard error of the linear fit was used in Eq. 8 as S. The plots of the direct signal change were temporally smoothed over 16 seconds before and after to show the trend in signal change.

For indirect measurement of CMRO region of interest analyses were performed by segmenting each half of the pig brain without including ventricles based on anatomical contrast images and a pig brain anatomy atlas. The time course of each ROI in the indirect imaging was temporally smoothed over 16.2 seconds 4 points before and after to filter high frequency noise. A linear fit was performed over 50 seconds approximately 10 seconds after the start of the Opulse and the slope of that line was used to estimate the signal change and fitting error per minute.

Blood sampling was performed during scanning on two separate occasions. The delay between the start of Odelivery and the start of wash in defined as two successive points over the standard deviation of the measurement is shown in to be about 90 seconds in the 40.8 kg pig. As provided in delivery of Oas 80 N 20 O 70 O enriched begins at time 0 seconds and ends at 60 seconds as in all the following figures. Serum concentration of HO was calculated by integrating the HO peak obtained by O spectroscopy of the blood samples taken at the given time points. The solid line is a 2 point moving average of the data points. The first data point is an average of 5 samples taken before the start of Odelivery assumed to be 20.35 mol HO g water. The error bar is the standard deviation of those 5 points of 0.17 mol g. A second experiment showed the delay to be on the order of 70 seconds in a 19.8 kg pig data not shown .

The correlation of indirect and direct imaging is shown in . Excellent agreement between the indirect and direct signals verifies the specificity of the current methods. The indirect signal is converted to concentration of mHO by Equation 6. shows the time series plot of blood sampling in combined with direct imaging shown in . The difference between the two lines indicates the CMRO. Since the difference between them is so great the recirculation can be effectively ignored.

The CMROof pigs of comparable size using a similar continuous infusion ketamine and benzodiazepine anesthesia regimen has been estimated to be 1.63 0.19 mol g min by O PET Poulsen P H Smith D F Ostergaard L Danielsen E H Gee A Hansen S B Astrup J Gjedde A. 1515181997 77 2 199 209 . The spatial resolution of those measurements presented here is the same as those O PET images without the need for an onsite cyclotron or radioactivity. Still differences in pig CMROfound in the literature vary significantly depending on the technique anesthesia regimen and size of pig used. One study averages 1.20 0.29 mol g min and 1.15 0.46 mol g min by radioactive and fluorescent microspheres respectively Ehrlich M P McCullough J N Zhang N Weisz D J Juvonen T Bodian C A Griepp R B. 2002 73 0 191 197 . Another radioactive microsphere study in pigs of different ages found CMROranging from 1.30 to 1.75 mol g min Ichord R N Kirsch J R Helfaer M A Haun S Traystman R J. 1991 22 5 626 634 . The measurements made here compare favorably to these values.

While 3 Tesla scanners are relatively widespread clinically lower fields have some advantages in the indirect imaging application. The J coupling interaction that leads to relaxation enhancement is a field strength independent interaction. As such higher starting Tvalues for tissue make the absolute Treduction by HO greater at lower field strengths. Also lower tissue Tvalues allow for faster averaging of the spin spin coupling based HO effect. Further diminished magnetic susceptibility effects reduce the competing signal changes from cerebral blood and sequence artifacts. This is in contrast to O which benefits from ultra high fields and is typically performed at clinically unavailable field strengths. For all these reasons 1.5 T was chosen for the present studies.

Nevertheless the major technical limitation of H detected O imaging is the relatively small effect of physiologic levels of O on H relaxation. This problem can be overcome in human applications for several reasons. First the CMROmeasured here is on the order of 3 fold less than the CMROof resting humans mostly due to anesthesia. Therefore human studies should correspond to a roughly 3 improvement of the O effect. Second the human brain is so much larger than pig brain that region of interest analyses should be more easily obtainable and more meaningful. Third as humans are far more cooperative than pigs and do not require anesthesia human studies should be easier to perform. Further as units of O will cost less as more is produced it is hoped that the cost of these techniques will be improved by increased interest and usage by the research community.

It must be noted that the equations used to quantify CMROhave sources of potential error for absolute measurements. The value of the relaxation enhancement due to O on H R for example is difficult to measure in vivo or with ex vivo tissues and as such it may be imprecise. As well Rmay vary based on different tissue parameters such as grey or white matter or cerebral blood volume per voxel. For example the sequence given in this paper measures R 100 Hz as 1.37 10mMmsin HO doped phosphate buffered saline phantoms and that would likely approximate the value for blood or cerebrospinal fluid. It is also known that Rhas a dependence on pH Meiboom S. 1961 34 2 375 . This is a very minor concern for application in cerebral infarction as one rat model shows overall tissue pH in hyperacute stroke leading to complete infarction to drop to a minimum of 6.6 Nedergaard M Kraig R P Tanabe J Pulsinelli W A. 1991 260 3 Pt 2 R581 588 and Rshown by Meiboom only varies about 10 over the pH interval 6.2 7.8. Also since Ris reduced by pH extremes further drops in pH would underestimate mHO production and serve to magnify the probability that a tissue is infracted in future applications of this technology. The value off the tissue fractional enrichment of O chosen is based from a very simple approximate model of inhalation appropriate for averaging over several breaths however more sophisticated modeling could potentially be used. This factor has not been considered in the estimation of CMROwith Opreviously because small animals have high respiratory rates and the slurring of the O fractional enrichment may be neglected because gas mixing in the lungs occurs much more quickly. Also it becomes more reasonable to neglect f with longer time periods of inhalation where the fractional enrichment has had sufficient time for equilibration with the enriched O gas. Despite these considerations relative CMROin the same subject or across subjects can be estimated using the current techniques.

The T prepared centrically encoded fully balanced spin echo sequence used in this study evolved from decoupling experiments in which high T spin lock amplitudes Rizi R R Charagundla S R Song H K Reddy R Stolpen A H Schnall M D Leigh J S. 1 1.9 1998 8 5 1090 1096 off resonance spin locking Charagundla S R Stolpen A H Leigh J S Reddy R. 117 1998 39 4 588 595 or O decoupling Reddy R Stolpen A H Charagundla S R Insko E K Leigh J S. 17 1 1996 14 9 1073 1078 are used to mitigate the H O J coupling interaction. This sequence improves the temporal resolution for these decoupling techniques significantly by allowing them to be performed with a fast single shot imaging readout. This brings down the temporal resolution from at least 10 seconds per image with turbo spin echo based readouts to about 3.5 seconds with the current sequence and parameters. The small spin lock amplitude 100 Hz used here gives extremely similar R constants to measured Rin the case of O Stolpen A H Reddy R Leigh J S. 17 1997 125 1 1 7 Reddy R Stolpen A H Leigh J S. 171 1995 108 3 276 279 without visible artifact or effect of macroscopic background field gradients. This study was performed with a body coil transmitter and surface receiver which is suggested for the high homogeneity of the body coil for spin locking Decoupling of the H O interaction can be performed with high spin lock amplitudes as well. While decoupling is not performed in this study due to implementation difficulties and specific absorption rate concerns on clinical scanners decoupling experiments similar to those previously conducted Reddy R Stolpen A H Leigh J S. 171 1995 108 3 276 279 Reddy R Stolpen A H Charagundla S R Insko E K Leigh J S. 17 1 1996 14 9 1073 1078 can be performed using the sequence and delivery techniques presented here. Also it may be possible that the same estimates could be made with a fast Tweighted sequences such as spin echo echo planar imaging or single shot turbo spin echo methods. In particular spin echo echo planar imaging presents the possibility of obtaining 3D metabolic images. However caution must be exercised using sequences as any possible distortion or artifact may mask the small proton signal change generated by physiologic short term mHO production. T imaging as shown here enables us to measure the small changes due to mHO that may not be seen with other sequences due to artifacts that may obscure small signal changes in long T weighted images or in echo planar imaging.

While it is recognized that the anesthesia regimen may change the vascular recirculation of mHO as opposed to awake humans multiple O PET studies have modeled the time course of recirculation for metabolic water using similar time courses with a single breath hold in humans and these have also made CMROmeasurements claiming recirculation during the first minute to be negligible Meyer E Tyler J L Thompson C J Redies C Diksic M Hakim A M. 152 1987 7 4 403 414 Ohta S Meyer E Thompson C J Gjedde A. 1992 12 2 179 192 . Indeed the measurements made here and the modeling used for CMROmeasurement is very similar to O experiments performed in humans Mintun M A Raichle M E Martin W R Herscovitch P. 15 1984 25 2 177 187 . In that study 40 seconds were used to measure CMROafter a 20 second delay after start of inhalation. Recirculation of HO was measured and found to be minimal during that time. The error in CMROcalculation ignoring wash in was simulated to be less than 15 for very critically low values of oxygen extraction fraction 0.3 . With the current data and the PET data taken together it seems the recirculation delay is comparable in humans and as such anesthesia in pigs is not thought to be a significant factor for the kinetics of mHO recirculation. If anything these experiments should become easier to perform in humans who have larger brains higher resting brain metabolic rates and do not require anesthesia for imaging.

Another difference between the current study and many short time course PET studies is that for delivery PET studies frequently use a single tidal volume inhalation of tracer with a breath hold. We do not employ this strategy here for several reasons. First any fluctuation in blood oxygen content results in a change in MRI signal Butte D Chiarelli P Wise R Jezzard P. 2007 26 4 894 899 Chiarelli P A Butte D P Wise R Gallichan D Jezzard P. 2007 37 3 808 820 . A single bolus of 100 oxygen after breathing room air will cause an increase in MR signal that will interfere with the measurement suggested by above references and demonstrated by EAM data not shown . It is possible to have the subject breathe 100 oxygen for a period of time to stabilize the MR signal before Odelivery and this has been done by us with similar mHO observations. However modeling indicates that this wastes much more expensive Ogas by exhalation of oxygen unused by the lungs than the method presented here. This is because hemoglobin is fully saturated past 15 Oat latm pressure and as such most of the oxygen in a 100 oxygen inhalation will not be absorbed. A large single breath of Ocould potentially be held longer to decrease the amount of exhaled O however this risks even small amounts of hemoglobin desaturation which will artificially enhance the O effect by T T T reduction by paramagnetic venous deoxyhemoglobin. Still with careful bolusing and hemoglobin saturation accounting a single breath MRI method could be obtained that would use approximately the same amount of Oused here.

The present study demonstrates the feasibility of measuring CMROin large animals on clinical scanners using a single tidal volume of Ogas delivered with a precision delivery circuit. By minimizing gas required for CMROmeasurements employing a large animal model and utilizing clinical hardware this represents a crucial first step towards the translation of small animal Ostudies to humans. A simple model of lung mixing and delivery to tissues is presented. Arterial blood sampling and analysis of mHO content shows the time when recirculation begins to be 60 80 seconds ample time for fast imaging techniques to obtain numerous images for CMROestimation. High temporal resolution indirect and direct imaging is correlated to show similar results for the estimation of CMROnon invasively during those 60 seconds. For indirect imaging only a clinical 1.5T scanner with standard hardware and an easily programmable pulse sequence is necessary.

As discussed above the use of Oxygen 17 MRI provides great promise for the clinically useful quantification of metabolism. To bring techniques based on O closer to clinical application demonstrated herein is imaging of metabolically generated HO in pigs after Odelivery with increased temporal resolution T weighted imaging and precision delivery of Ogas. The kinetics of the appearance of HO in pig brains are displayed with one to two minutes of Odelivery the shortest delivery times reported in the literature. It is also shown that HO concentrations can be quantified with single shot T imaging based on a balanced steady state free precession readout and that with this strategy pausing to reduce Tsaturation increases sensitivity to HO over acquisition in the steady state. Several additional considerations with this sequence which can be generalized to any pre encoding cluster such as energy deposition are considered.

Reported herein is single shot T imaging with readout based on T prepared balanced Steady State Free Precession bSSFP . Pigs are used as a model for their similar lung capacities and circulations to humans. While the detection of HO with a steady state sequence has been reported the present study shows theoretically HO sensitivity is improved by a sequence with a T or Tpre encoding cluster followed by signal acquisition without the steady state directly after pre encoding. The efficacy is demonstrated by phantom experiments and in vivo.

Images were acquired from a Siemens 1.5T Sonata MR scanner. Simulations were performed with custom written software in Matlab. The T pre encoded bSSFP pulse sequence consists of a T preparatory cluster followed by a centrically encoded 2D bSSFP readout without dummy scans shown in .

The ability of the sequence to detect changes in HO concentration was measured by imaging six 15 mL conical tubes filled with 1 Phosphate Buffered Saline doped with HO Isotec Miamisberg Ohio in steps of 5 mM from 20 mM natural abundance to 45 mM. These tubes were sealed and placed into a 9 cm jar filled with water. A receive only loop coil was placed around the jar and used in combination with the body transmit coil. Cross sectional images of the tubes were acquired with a spin lock amplitude of 100 Hz and spin lock times of 200 400 600 800 and 1000 msec. Imaging parameters are FoV 90 mm ST 5 mm TR TE 10.4 5.2 ms Matrix 128 BW 130 Hz Px 180 .

The concentrations of the phantoms were determined experimentally according to the following equation 

The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of the University of Pennsylvania approved all animal experiments. A live pig was placed supine inside a 1.5T Siemens Sonata clinical scanner on a vendor supplied surface coil. Once placed inside the intubation tube was connected to a custom precision delivery breathing circuit that drove the pig s breathing at 6 breaths min at a tidal volume of 18 mL times the weight in kg. A standard T1 weighted localizer sequence was run to find a suitable coronal image of the middle portion of the pig brain that included cortex brainstem and ventricle. A T1 weighted IR prepared GRE sequence MP RAGE was performed to obtain anatomical images of the pig brain and the desired slice. Sequence parameters for the T prepared bSSFP are as follows TR TE 9.7 4.8 ms ST 5 or 10 mm FoV 200 mm 128matrix BW 130 Hz Px 180 SL Amp 100 Hz fat saturation on 1.6 second readout time 2 second delay between acquisition time per image 3.6 sec.

A demonstration of the T prepared bSSFP sequence shows that measurements of HO concentrations can be made with single shot imaging very rapidly show the results of the quantification of HO is performed in phantoms and quantified using the relaxivity of HO in PBS. provides cross sectional images of 15 mL conical tubes filled with phosphate buffered saline and doped with increasing amounts of HO to concentrations from 20 mM natural abundance to 45 mM 25 mM added . The left image a shows the ordering of the phantoms labeled by concentration in a proton density image that uses only two 90 degree pulses and no spin locking as a preparation cluster. The image b shows the contrast developed with 100 Hz spin locking The relaxivity of these phantoms taken from a series of T weighted images not shown was applied to equation 1 along with the signal intensities from the above images to calculate O concentrations .

To show that high SNR and contrast are maintained by using a sequence with a pre encoding cluster versus detecting pure Tchanges in the steady state Bloch equation simulations were performed to show that detecting in the steady state gives less contrast and CNR than methods not in the steady state. In essence by filling the center of k space first with a high flip angle contrast is much higher than when obtaining Tcontrast in the steady state. The simulated differences are summarized in Table 3 below. Despite the possibility of generating images faster steady state acquisition offers less SNR and CNR efficiency.

Because SAR is a concern in fast imaging sequences shown in Table 4 below is how contrast and SAR reduce with decreases in Flip Angle. CNR Efficiency vs. Steady State compares the CNR from a non steady state acquisition with the given flip angle against CNR from a steady state acquisition with optimum flip angle 60 for CNR in the steady state.

To demonstrate detection of HO in vivo Ogas was delivered to a pig during imaging data not shown . Signal decreases demonstrate the detection of Oconversion to HO. To demonstrate pulsed delivery of Ogas 1 breath of 40 was delivered to three pigs either as one breath or diluted with nitrogen to simulate room air. A consistent signal drop is observed after each delivery. Because only one breath of gas is used to show change this represents the smallest volume delivery of gas published.

Three experiments were performed with 40 O and their results are pooled. These were performed with TSL 200 ms to develop a higher percent signal change but with SNR about 40 1 as opposed to 150 1 at TSL 75 ms. Results are shown in . The whole brain signal trace is an average of these three experiments though ROIs from different regions show similar kinetics. Two pigs were imaged with a protocol of 5 minutes of 100 O 2 breaths of 40 O enriched O then 5 minutes of 100 O. The third pig was imaged with 5 minute room air then 2 breaths of 20 O 40 enriched O mixed with 80 N. The start of Ois indicated by the arrow. Because the normalized signal trace from the third experiment is so similar it has been pooled. Signal changes are statistically significant when compared to baseline data not shown .

In conclusion the present study provides many of the technical details of and proof of concept for improvements in indirect detection of HO by T on clinical scanners including its use for the clinical in vivo imaging of metabolism.

Although several examples of the present invention have been described it will be understood by those of skill in the art that the procedures and materials are not limited to those explicitly mentioned. Modifications on the procedures and materials are within the scope and spirit of the present invention.

