---

title: Method and system for applicant salary and employment history verification
abstract: The invention is directed to a method and system to verify an employment history of an applicant. The method involves obtaining data from a plurality of data sources comprising a business application, aggregating data to obtain aggregated data, where aggregated data includes employment and payroll data from the plurality of data sources, receiving a request for an employment history verification report based on a job application, where the request includes applicant identification information, searching aggregated data for data associated with applicant identification information, and providing the employment history verification report corresponding to applicant identification information, where the employment history verification report is based on the request and aggregated data. The employment history verification report may be based on employment and payroll data associated with applicant identification information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595148&OS=08595148&RS=08595148
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08595148
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
The job market is an extremely competitive environment and many employers strive to negotiate the hiring process in as efficient a manner as possible. Regulations and business practices limit the manner in which employers and references services may verify employment history information during the hiring process. Moreover most employment and compensation information is considered to be highly private and laws prohibit dissemination of this information without an individual s consent. As a result this type of information though valuable to businesses is generally not aggregated for research purposes.

With advances in computer related business technology many businesses now manage their payroll systems using one or more business applications and maintain electronic employment and payroll records. In addition the search for employment is more and more frequently conducted in an online environment. Job applications are frequently submitted through a company s website or professional job board and interviews may now be conducted at virtual job fairs. This means that job candidates from all over the world can apply for a single position. Although applicants may appear qualified on paper employers must verify this information. Despite all the advances in business communications this employment verification process remains challenging.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for verifying an employment history of an applicant. The method comprises obtaining data from a plurality of data sources wherein data comprise employment and payroll data and the plurality of data sources comprises a plurality of business applications aggregating data to obtain aggregated data wherein aggregated data comprise employment and payroll data from the plurality of data sources receiving a request for an employment history verification report based on a job application wherein the request comprises applicant identification information searching aggregated data for data associated with applicant identification information and providing the employment history verification report based on the request and aggregated data. In one embodiment the employment history verification report comprises employment and payroll data associated with applicant identification information. Alternatively in one embodiment the employment history verification report comprises a comparative analysis of the employment history from the job application and aggregated data.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for verifying an employment history comprising obtaining a job application from an applicant wherein the job application comprises applicant identification information submitting a request for an employment history verification report based on the job application and receiving an employment history verification report corresponding to the applicant identification information wherein the employment history verification report is based on the request and aggregated data comprising employment and payroll data obtained from a plurality of data sources and wherein the plurality of data sources comprises a plurality of business applications.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system to verify an employment history of an applicant. The system comprises an aggregate data repository configured to store aggregated data wherein aggregated data comprise employment and payroll data from a plurality of data sources comprising a plurality of business applications. The system further comprises a data processing service configured to receive a request for an employment history verification report based on a job application wherein the request comprises applicant identification information extract from the aggregate data repository data associated with applicant identification information and generate an employment history verification report corresponding to the applicant identification information wherein the employment history verification report is based on the request and aggregated data.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium comprising a plurality of executable instructions for generating an employment history verification report. The computer readable medium comprises instructions to obtain data from a plurality of data sources wherein data comprise employment and payroll data and the plurality of data sources comprises a plurality of business applications aggregate data to obtain aggregated data wherein aggregated data comprise employment and payroll data from the plurality of data sources receive a request for an employment history verification report based on a job application wherein the request comprises applicant identification information search aggregated data for data associated with applicant identification information and provide the employment history verification report based on the request and aggregated data.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for providing an employment history verification report. Data from multiple sources are aggregated and the aggregated data are used to verify an employment history provided by a job applicant such as current and former employers a salary history job title s and or other related employment information. The aggregated data may also be used to identify periods of unemployment or disability for the job applicant or discrepancies between the reported employment history and actual business records.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources include one or more business applications. Business applications are software products that provide functionality for managing business operations. For example the data sources may include one or more financial management applications used to manage payroll and or paycheck data for a business. Further data from the data sources may include demographic information about the businesses such as name location industry number of employees at each location or any other type of demographic information about the businesses. In one or more embodiments of the invention individuals businesses and or payroll processing companies may upload data to one or more application data repositories associated with the data sources discussed below .

Further the data sources may be managed by one or more employers individuals or companies research companies professional networks government organizations educational facilities accreditation services and or financial institutions such as banks lending institutions credit bureaus tax agencies etc. In general the data sources may include any type of source configured to provide information about company payroll information and an individual s employment history. Many different types of payroll records management credentialing research and employment data may be used.

Data sources that may be used include for example QuickBooks Quicken TurboTax ProSeries services provided by a professional network e.g. LinkedIn research organizations e.g. LexisNexis Westlaw the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or unofficial intellectual property reporters the Internal Revenue Service the Social Security Administration the Veterans Association state and federal criminal authorities state and federal courts newspapers Internet search engines or any other type of data source configured to provide data about individuals and or employment data. The aforementioned data sources are listed as examples only and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. QuickBooks Quicken TurboTax and ProSeries are registered trademarks of Intuit Inc. LinkedIn is registered trademark of LinkedIn Corporation. LexisNexis is a registered trademark of LexisNexis. Westlaw is a registered trademark of Thomson West.

As used herein the terms employment history and employment data include information relevant to an individual s employment and professional activities such as current and previous employers compensation history job titles professional awards professional accomplishments e.g. inventorship credit publications speaking engagements etc. educational history professional certification or registration professional or client contacts professional memberships or affiliations standing with a professional organization e.g. good standing disbarment debarment inactive status etc. fines and sanctions levied warning letters pending criminal or civil actions convictions or judgments social security information e.g. the date of issuance of a social security number provided by the applicant wage garnishments tax information unemployment and disability information reference s to the applicant in a professional network and or any other data that may be relevant to an employer.

As used herein the terms payroll data and paycheck data include types of information generated by employers or tracked by employees with respect to compensation. For example such data may include employee identification data dates of payments amounts of payments purpose of a payment e.g. bonus special pay reason for bonus severance pay disability unemployment etc. tax and tax rate information wage garnishments and the like.

As used herein the term employment history verification report includes a comparative analysis of employment data and other information provided by a job applicant and data associated with the job applicant from the aggregated data. For example the employment history verification report may contain information verifying or noting discrepancies in employers employment dates salary information job titles bonus data or other employment data provided by a job applicant. The comparison may be based on for example payroll data submitted by one or more current or former employers of the applicant or the applicant himself herself from which the applicant s dates of employment and salary information may be calculated. The comparative analysis may be presented as a complete or partial description of all employment and or payroll data associated with a particular job applicant or limited to information concerning discrepancies found. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the comparison information for the employment history verification report may be presented in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and or scope of this invention.

Continuing with discussion of requests for an employment history verification report may be made directly by an employer or through a reference service . For example the employer may host a website allowing job applicants to enter their employment history into data fields of a website and this job application may be directly linked to a data processing service . Alternatively for example the website may be linked to a web page hosted by a reference service and directly or indirectly to a data processing service . In any case some or all of the applicant employment history is provided to the data processing service . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the applicant employment history may be presented in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and or scope of this invention.

In one or more embodiments the system includes one or more data processing services e.g. data processing service . The data processing services are configured to generate one or more matches or identify discrepancies between a job applicant and payroll data and or any other type of information stored in the aggregate data repository .

In view of the above in one or more embodiments the data sources may be thought of as input services for the aggregate data repository because the data sources are used to input data to the aggregate data repository . Further in one or more embodiments the data processing services may be thought of as output services for the aggregate data repository because the data processing services generate output based on the data in the aggregate data repository . Specifically the data processing services generate output in the form of an employment history verification report and may also be configured to generate other types of output based on data from the aggregate data repository . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is communicatively coupled with application programming interfaces APIs not shown that allow input services and or output services to interact with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregate data repository is restricted using an authentication service . Specifically the authentication service is configured to ensure that only authorized data processing services are given access to the aggregate data repository . For example the authentication service may require a data processing service to present a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential recognized as valid by the authentication service . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is located in a local area network LAN and the authentication service includes a firewall protecting the LAN from unauthorized access.

As discussed above the data sources diagrammed in may include one or more business applications. shows a diagram of a system that includes a business application in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The business application may be a financial management application a payroll application a research application a credit analysis application a professional network application a search engine or any other type of business application configured to provide data relating to an individual s employment history or professional achievements.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data from the business application are stored in an application data repository . The application data repository may be a database an XML document a spreadsheet a text file or any other type of repository configured to store data associated with the business application . Some examples of data that may be stored are described above.

In one or more embodiments of the invention before data from the application data repository are transmitted to an aggregated data repository the data are transformed to a format compatible with the aggregate data repository . As one example if the aggregate data repository is a database the data may require normalization to conform to a database schema used by the aggregate data repository . As another example the data may require transformation to a particular XML format. Many different types of data transformation may be required depending on the implementations of the application data repository and the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention to transform the data to a compatible format the data are transmitted to a staging data repository using a data link service . In one or more embodiments the data link service is a module or plug in of the business application . Alternatively the data link service may be independent of the business application . In either case the data link service is configured to retrieve data from the application data repository and transmit the data for example over a file system and or network to the staging data repository .

Further in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to retrieve only a subset of the data available in the application data repository . For example if the application data repository is configured to store a business s financial data the data link service may omit data that concerns the business and is unrelated to employees such as a credit card number a bank account number or any other type of private data. Alternatively private business data may be transmitted to the aggregate data repository and privacy of the data may be enforced by another component of the system such as an authentication service not shown communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention once the data are stored in the staging data repository the data are transformed to the required format by a data transformation service and the transformed data are transmitted to the aggregate data repository . Data stored in the aggregate data repository may then be used to provide an employment history verification report as discussed herein.

While the system shown in includes several different components embodiments of the invention may be envisioned that omit one or more of these components. For example in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to transmit data directly to the data transformation service . In such cases use of the staging data repository may not be required. Further the business application may be configured to generate data in a format that is already compatible with the aggregate data repository . In such cases use of the data transformation service may not be required.

Moreover the business application may be configured to store data directly in the aggregate data repository . For example the business application may be a web based application configured to use the aggregate data repository for data storage. In such cases the application data repository and data link service may not be required. Alternatively the system may be logically separated into client side and server side components. For example the business application application data repository and or data link service may be executing on an end user s computer system and the staging data repository data transformation service and or aggregate data repository may be executing on one or more other computer systems separated from the end user s computer system by a network.

Many different embodiments of the system may be envisioned that remain within the scope of the invention. Further while the system has been described with respect to a business application a similar system may be envisioned that uses an application operated by a staffing company a financial institution or any other type of application configured to store data relevant to providing employment history career achievement information or payroll data.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention data are obtained from multiple data sources. As discussed above the data sources may include one or more business applications managed for example by individuals employers payroll services employees research companies professional networks government organizations educational facilities accreditation services and or financial institutions such as banks lending institutions credit bureaus tax agencies etc. In general the data sources may include any type of source configured to provide information about company payroll information and or an individual s employment history or career achievements. Many different types of payroll and employment data may be used. Examples of data that may be provided by the data sources are described above.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention the data are transformed to a data format that is compatible with an aggregate data repository. For example as discussed above the data may be transformed to satisfy a particular database schema or XML format. Further as discussed above the data may be transformed using a data transformation service communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository. In general in one or more embodiments of the invention transforming the data allows for data from multiple types of data sources to be aggregated in the aggregate data repository.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention the data are aggregated. As noted above the term aggregating means grouping together. For example data may be grouped in one or more tables of the database cells in a spreadsheet fields of an extensible markup language XML document or in any other aggregated format. In one or more embodiments of the invention aggregating the data helps facilitate generating business advice based on data from multiple data sources.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention a policy to restrict access to aggregated data is established. Restricting access to the aggregated data may involve ensuring that only authorized entities for example businesses individuals and or government entities have access to the aggregated data. For example access may be restricted by enforcing a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential. Further access may be restricted based on a location of the aggregate data repository in a network. For example the aggregate data repository may be located in a local area network LAN and access may be restricted using a firewall that protects the LAN from unauthorized access. In one or more embodiments of the invention restricting access to the aggregated data also involves a type of filtering by limiting access to a particular subset of the aggregated data.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention a policy restricting access to the aggregated data is based on whether an entity has purchased access to the aggregated data. In other words the right to access the aggregated data may be sold and non paying entities may not be allowed to access the aggregated data. For example an entity may purchase the right to query using Structured Query Language SQL a report interface or any other appropriate query mechanism the aggregated data or a subset thereof. In one or more embodiments of the invention the right to access the aggregated data is sold using a subscription model where the entity purchases access rights for a limited time period or with recurring fees.

Alternatively a copy of the aggregated data or a subset thereof may be provided to the entity in an electronic storage medium. As one example aggregated data may be packaged in an electronic file and transmitted to the entity via File Transfer Protocol FTP email or any other type of electronic transmission. As another example a data set including the aggregated data or a subset thereof may be written to a portable storage medium such as a compact disc CD digital video disc DVD flash drive or any other type of portable storage medium given to the purchasing entity. Many different purchase and delivery models may be used to establish policies to access the aggregated data. In one or more embodiments of the invention the price of access is proportional to the amount of access granted. For example the right to query all of the aggregated data may cost more than the right to query a subset of the aggregated data for example for a particular demographic population .

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention a request for an employment history verification report is received. For example an employer having received a job application and or resume from an applicant may wish to confirm that the applicant did accurately represent his or her employment history. As discussed above an employment history may include for example current and previous employers a salary history bonus earned professional accomplishments e.g. inventorship credit publications speaking engagements etc. educational history professional certification or registration professional or client contacts professional memberships or affiliations standing with regulating organization e.g. good standing disbarment disciplinary action s active status inactive status etc. fines and sanctions levied warning letters named as a party to criminal or civil actions tax information disability information unemployment information social security information e.g. date a social security number was issued and or any other data that would be relevant to an employer.

The request may include some or all of the employment history provided by the applicant. In one or more embodiments of the invention the request includes applicant identifying information e.g. name address social security number etc. employment information e.g. employers dates at each position and or a salary history. The format of the request may vary. For example the request may be provided in an electronic paper or audio format. An employer may scan a job application or resume received from an applicant and the information captured e.g. using optical character recognition OCR techniques . In one or more embodiments of the invention the request is provided via a web based user interface.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention a release executed by the applicant is also obtained. For example the release may authorize one or more entities or persons to access the applicant s payroll or paycheck data and to provide some or all of this information to the employer directly or through a third party reference service . Like the request the format of the release may vary depending on the applicable state and federal regulations. For example the release maybe provided in an electronic paper or audio format. In one or more embodiments of the invention the release is provided via a web based user interface. In one or more embodiments of the invention the release is incorporated into the request.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention the aggregated data are searched for data associated with the applicant. For example the payroll and or paycheck records of each employer listed in the request may be searched for data associated with the applicant or the aggregated data may be searched using the applicant s identifying information e.g. name social security number etc. . In one or more embodiments the search takes place in the data repository and the data may be filtered or clustered in order to reduce search times. For example the aggregated data may be clustered based on the geographic location of the source e.g. the employer s address and the employment history information related to state A may first be matched to aggregated data in the state A cluster then a comparative search is only or first conducted with the aggregated data in the state A cluster. Alternatively data may first be clustered by time period and the employment history may first be matched to data in a similar time period cluster then a comparative search of data is conducted only or first in that cluster. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the search may be conducted in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and or scope of this invention.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments an employment history verification report is generated based on the request and the aggregated data. An employment history verification report includes a comparative analysis of employment data and other information provided by a job applicant and data associated with the job applicant from the aggregated data. In one or more embodiments of the invention aggregated payroll data are analyzed to recreate an employment history for an applicant. A substantial amount of information is available from payroll data tracked by the applicant and or the applicant s current or former employers. For example payroll data may be used to confirm if the applicant was employed at a particular employer during the claimed period of time for a particular salary as well as information concerning particular aspects of compensation such as bonuses e.g. special pay taxed at higher rates pay increases coinciding with purported promotions or changes in responsibility title severance pay disability unemployment and or wage garnishments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the comparative analysis for the employment history verification report may be presented in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments a policy is established to restrict access to the employment history verification report. The restricted access may be based upon the delivery model used. For example in one or more embodiments of the invention the employment history verification report may be provided using a subscription model. With such a model the policy would only allow valid subscribers access to the appropriate employment history verification report s .

The subscription may be to a webpage as noted above or may take another form. For example an entity e.g. an employer seeking to verify employment history information provided by applicants may purchase a subscription for access to an electronic interface that allows the entity or a representative thereof to run the report on demand. Alternatively reports may be generated by the same entity that controls the aggregate data repository. The report may be distributed by email paper copy portable storage medium File Transfer Protocol FTP restricted webpage or any other physical or electronic distribution medium. The report interface may also include controls to filter the aggregated data used to generate the employment history verification report. In one or more embodiments of the invention the specific filtering criteria used are based on requests by purchasing employers. Thus the reports may effectively be customized for the purchasing employers. Many different purchase and delivery models may be used to provide the employment history verification report.

Thus in one or more embodiments of the invention depending on the delivery model used the employment history verification report is provided using some form of security that restricts access by non paying entities. Specifically access to the employment history verification report may be restricted using a username and or password an encrypted digital signature network based security two or more factor authentication or any other type of access control. For example access to the employment history verification report may require logging into a secured webpage. The employment history verification report may then be provided only to entities that have paid to receive the service. In one or more embodiments of the invention additional measures may be taken to ensure that the employment history verification report is only used by authorized employers for reasonable and legally permissible purposes and that the privacy rights of the employee whose employment data are disclosed are properly protected.

In one or more embodiments of the invention as shown in Step the data may be provided by multiple data sources. Such provision may be in exchange for access to aggregated data from a business receiving the employment history verification report. That is in one or more embodiments of the invention a business supplies the data in exchange for access to search aggregated data and or receive the employment history verification report. Data from the business may then be included in future analysis of the aggregated data to provide employment history verification reports. In one or more embodiments of the invention there is no requirement or relationship between the data sources and the employers requesting access to reports generated using the aggregated data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention as shown in Step an employer receives a job application from an applicant. The format of the job application may vary. For example the job application may be a paper or electronic application or a resume it may be received via an online website that allows applicants to fill in data fields and or upload data or it may include data provided in an oral interview. The job application may be provided by the applicant directly to the employer or the employer s website or may be submitted by a third party reference service e.g. a recruiter a job website or job board an online resume or recruiting service a talent relationship management TRM system a career fair etc. . Those skilled in the art will recognize that many different technologies may be used to obtain the job application from an applicant without departing from the spirit and or scope of this invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention as shown in Step the employer directly or through a third party submits a request for an employment history verification report based on the job application. Technologies by which such a request may be made have been discussed above. In one or more embodiments of the invention as shown in Step the employer or reference service may additionally provide a release executed by the applicant. As discussed above the release may authorize one or more entities or persons to access the applicant s payroll and or paycheck data and provide some or all of this information to the employer directly or through a reference service .

In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the employment history verification report and or the aggregated data may be restricted. Thus as shown in Step the employer or reference service may be required to provide authentication information e.g. a user identity and password in order to access the employment history verification report. Various technologies that may be used to authorize access are discussed above.

In one or more embodiments of the invention as shown in Step an employer or third party reference service may received an employment history verification report based on the request and the aggregated data associated with the application. The employment history verification report may take many forms as discussed in detail above. For example the report may simply verify that some or all of the employment data provided by the applicant are accurate indicate discrepancies between some or all of the employment data provided by the applicant and the aggregated data associated with the applicant e.g. time period at a particular employer was less than that reported by the applicant the applicant actually worked for an employer that was not disclosed in the job application the job applicant s last reported salary information was incorrect etc. and or indicate that no data associated with the applicant was found in the aggregated data e.g. for a particular time period a particular employer or at all .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the employment history verification report may include data concerning additional professional accomplishments that require verification using third party databases e.g. research government professional association and educational databases . Additional fees and or access authorization requirements may be necessary to include this information in the employment history verification report.

In general embodiments of the invention allow for an employment history verification report to be provided based on aggregated data from multiple sources. Specifically by aggregating data historical employment and salary information for an individual employee may be captured and used to verify an employment history provided by that individual when he she applies for a job at another company. Further the employment history verification report may help provide guidance to employers attempting to identify and hire qualified employees for particular positions. Because the aggregated data are obtained from multiple data sources using automated processes the aggregated data may be very timely and accurate. Thus the employment history verification report generated using the aggregated data may offer a high degree of reliability. Further the aggregated data may include data about the applicant s current employer which may be verified without having to contact a current employer which job applicants normally do not allow . Therefore the employment history verification report is very current. Finally embodiments of the invention may allow for the employment history verification report to be tailored to the specific professional achievements valued by the employer receiving the data.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention for example a data processing service authentication service data filter aggregate data repository data source business application application data repository data link service staging data repository data processing service and or any other portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

