---

title: Classifying access points using pilot identifiers
abstract: Systems and methodologies are described that facilitate grouping pilot identifies to indicate type and/or classification information regarding one or more access points. The access points can select or be assigned pilot identifiers from the group indicating a type or classification related to the access points. Thus, identifiers can be grouped into macrocell and/or femtocell groups or ranges such that an access point can indicate, and mobile devices can efficiently determine, whether the access point provides macrocell or femtocell coverage based on a range from which its pilot identifier is selected or assigned. In addition, the pilot identifiers can be utilized to indicate restricted association information regarding the access points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603062&OS=09603062&RS=09603062
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09603062
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081112
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 631 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE IDLE STATE HANDOFF IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 641 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE CONNECTED STATE HANDOFF IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 649 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE MANAGEMENT AND ADVERTISEMENT OF NEIGHBOR LISTS IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 61 025 093 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SIGNALING RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Jan. 31 2008. The entireties of the aforementioned applications are herein incorporated by reference.

In addition this application is related co pending U.S. patent applications UTILIZING RESTRICTION CODES IN WIRELESS ACCESS POINT CONNECTION ATTEMPTS by Gavin Horn et al. having Ser. No. 12 269 611 FAVORING ACCESS POINTS IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS by Gavin Horn et al. having Ser. No. 12 269 619 UTILIZING BROADCAST SIGNALS TO CONVEY RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION INFORMATION by Gavin Horn et al. having Ser. No. 12 269 637 and SECTOR IDENTIFICATION USING SECTOR PARAMETERS SIGNATURES by Gavin Horn et al. having Ser. No. 12 269 654 all of which are filed concurrently herewith assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to utilizing pilot identifiers to identify access point types.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP 3GPP long term evolution LTE ultra mobile broadband UMB etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations. Further communications between mobile devices and base stations may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth. In addition mobile devices can communicate with other mobile devices and or base stations with other base stations in peer to peer wireless network configurations.

MIMO systems commonly employ multiple N transmit antennas and multiple N receive antennas for data transmission. The antennas can relate to both base stations and mobile devices in one example allowing bi directional communication between the devices on the wireless network. As mobile devices move throughout service areas cells utilized for communication by the devices can be reselected between one or more access points e.g. macrocells femtocells etc. . This can occur for example where an available access point or serving cell thereof can offer a better signal or service than a current access point. The mobile devices can measure parameters related to one or more cells such as signal quality service level etc. and rank the cells according to desirability which can be based on one or more of the parameters. In one example the available access point can relate to a home access point for a given mobile device offering desirable billing coverage service options etc. Accordingly cells utilized for communication can be reselected to the more desirable access point when within a specified range.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with facilitating identifying access point types and or related groups using pilot signals transmitted by the access points. For example the pilot signals can comprise pilot identifiers utilized to identify the access points in wireless networks. A space of pilot identifiers can be divided to indicate one or more types or classifications related to the access points and access points can select pilot identifiers from the appropriate group to indicate the type and or classification. In one example macrocells can select pilot identifiers from a disparate group or range than femtocells further restricted association femtocells can select pilot identifiers from a disparate group or range than those not implementing restricted association. Mobile devices can efficiently identify the type based at least in part on the pilot identifiers. It is to be appreciated that the space of pilot identifiers can be divided based on power location utilized frequency transmission periodicity network plan service provider owner of the access point and or substantially any parameters related to classifying access points.

According to related aspects a method for determining cell information for cell reselection in a wireless communication network is provided. The method can include receiving a pilot signal broadcast from an access point and determining a pilot identifier comprised within the pilot signal. The method can further include determining a type of the access point based at least in part on an identifier range in which the pilot identifier falls.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to receive a pilot signal broadcasted from an access point and obtain a pilot identifier comprised within the pilot signal that uniquely identifies the access point. The processor is further configured to detect a type of the access point based at least in part on associating the pilot identifier with a range of identifiers. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that facilitates determining information related to an access point in a wireless network. The wireless communications apparatus can comprise means for receiving a pilot signal from an access point and means for receiving a pilot identifier comprised within the pilot signal. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for determining a type of the access point based at least in part on the pilot identifier.

Still another aspect relates to a computer program product which can have a computer readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to receive a pilot signal broadcast from an access point. The computer readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to determine a pilot identifier comprised within the pilot signal. Moreover the computer readable medium can comprise code for causing the at least one computer to determine a type of the access point based at least in part on an identifier range in which the pilot identifier falls.

Moreover an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a cell reselector that receives a plurality of pilot signals broadcast from a plurality of access points and a pilot identifier receiver that obtains a pilot identifier comprised within at least one of the plurality of pilot signals the pilot identifier identifies at least one of the plurality of access points. The apparatus can further include an access point type determiner that detects a type of the at least one of the plurality of access points based at least in part on the pilot identifier.

According to additional related aspects a method for selecting pilot identifiers for access points in a wireless communication network is provided. The method includes determining a type of an access point for communicating in a wireless communication network and determining a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point. The method can further include selecting a pilot identifier from the range of pilot identifiers for subsequent transmission in a pilot signal over the wireless communication network for identifying the access point.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to detect a type of an access point for communicating in a wireless communication network and determine a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point. The processor is further configured to select a pilot identifier from the range of pilot identifiers for subsequent transmission in a pilot signal over the wireless communication network for identifying the access point. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that facilitates indicating access point information in wireless communications. The wireless communications apparatus can comprise means for receiving a type of an access point for communicating in a wireless communication network and means for determining a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for selecting a pilot identifier from the range of pilot identifiers for subsequent transmission in a pilot signal over the wireless communication network.

Still another aspect relates to a computer program product which can have a computer readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to determine a type of an access point for communicating in a wireless communication network. The computer readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to determine a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point. Moreover the computer readable medium can comprise code for causing the at least one computer to select a pilot identifier from the range of pilot identifiers for subsequent transmission in a pilot signal over the wireless communication network for identifying the access point.

Moreover an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include an access point type specifier that determines a type of an access point for communicating in a wireless communication network. The apparatus can further include a pilot identifier selector that determines a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point and selects a pilot identifier from the range of pilot identifiers for subsequent transmission in a pilot signal over the wireless communication network.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various embodiments are described herein in connection with a mobile device. A mobile device can also be called a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability computing device or other processing device connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various embodiments are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station can be utilized for communicating with mobile device s and can also be referred to as an access point Node B evolved Node B eNode B or eNB base transceiver station BTS or some other terminology.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to various tangible media capable of storing and or containing instruction s and or data.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA single carrier frequency domain multiplexing SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA CDMA2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. CDMA2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 .

Referring now to a wireless communication system is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System comprises a base station that can include multiple antenna groups. For example one antenna group can include antennas and another group can comprise antennas and and an additional group can include antennas and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector or cell of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward link the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward link for mobile device . Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile device scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology.

In addition the base station can communicate with a network which can be one or more networks including a wireless service access network e.g. a 3G network over a backhaul link connection. The network can store information regarding access parameters related to the mobile device and and other parameters of a wireless access network to provide service to the devices an . Furthermore a femtocell can be provided to facilitate communicating with the mobile device over forward link and reverse link similarly to forward link and reverse link as described supra . The femtocell can provide access to one or more mobile devices much like the base station but on a smaller scale. In one example femtocell can be configured in a residence business and or other close range setting e.g. theme park stadium apartment complex etc. . The femtocell can connect to the network utilizing a backhaul link connection which can be over a broadband Internet connection T1 T3 digital subscriber line DSL cable etc. in one example. The network can similarly provide access information for the mobile device . Moreover the base station and or femtocell can be a stationary access point or a mobile access point e.g. on a vehicle such as a train bus airplane car etc. .

According to an example mobile devices and can travel over service areas performing cell reselection among disparate base stations and or femtocells during travel. In this regard the mobile devices and can effectuate continuous wireless service seamless to users of the mobile devices and . In one example not shown mobile device can have been communicating with the base station similarly to the mobile device and can have moved into a specified range of the femtocell . In this regard the mobile device can have reselected one or more cells related to the femtocell to receive more desirable wireless service access. In one example the femtocell can be a home access point for the mobile device offering more desirable billing and or other access options. In another example the femtocell can be related to a business or venue offering options or data tailored to the respective business or venue. Thus mobile device can reselect one or more cells related to the femtocell in an idle and or connected mode to receive such tailored options. In addition as mobile device moves toward base station it can reselect a cell related thereto for a variety of reasons e.g. to mitigate interference on the femtocell to receive a more optimal signal or increased throughput etc. .

In traveling over the service area mobile devices and or can continually measure available base stations such as base station femtocells such as femtocell and or other access points to determine when cell reselection is beneficial to the mobile devices and or . The measuring can include for example evaluating signal quality throughput services available a wireless access provider related to the access point and or the like. Based on one or more of the measurements the mobile devices and or can rank access points for reselection. Upon determining the ranking the mobile devices and or can attempt cell reselection to the highest ranking access point. In addition the mobile devices and or can maintain a list of accessible access points and or groups of accessible access points. The accessible access points can relate to for example restricted association access points that the mobile devices and or are authorized to access and or to which access is preferred or otherwise favorable over other access points.

In one example the femtocell can be such a restricted association access point. Restricted association access points for example can be restricted in some aspects where each access point provides certain services to certain mobile devices e.g. mobile devices and or but not necessarily to other mobile devices or access terminals not shown . For example the femtocell can be restricted to not provide to the other mobile devices or access terminals registration signaling voice call data access and or additional services. Restricted association access points can be deployed in an ad hoc manner. For example a given homeowner can install and configure a restricted access point for the home.

In one example the mobile devices and or can identify one or more available access points such as base station femtocell and or other access points based at least in part on one or more indicators in a broadcast signal related to the access point s . Upon receiving the one or more indicators the mobile devices and or can ensure the access point s is are in the list or that a related group identifier is in the list before attempting cell reselection. In another example the mobile devices and or can verify association of the access point with the list before measuring the parameters for ranking. The accessible access points can relate to for example restricted association access points that the mobile devices and or are authorized to access and or to which access is preferred or otherwise favorable over other access points.

In one example the femtocell can be such a restricted association access point. Restricted association access points for example can be restricted in some aspects where each access point provides certain services to certain mobile devices e.g. mobile devices and or but not necessarily to other mobile devices or access terminals not shown . For example the femtocell can be restricted to not provide to the other mobile devices or access terminals registration signaling voice call data access and or additional services. Restricted association access points can be deployed in an ad hoc manner. For example a given homeowner can install and configure a restricted access point for the home.

The base station and or femtocell can transmit pilot identifiers in pilot signals to identify themselves. According to an example the base station and or femtocell can select or be assigned pilot identifiers related to one or more related classifications or types. Thus the base station in one example can be assigned a pilot identifier from a range or group separate from the femtocell . In this regard mobile devices and or can determine the related type or classification e.g. macrocell or femtocell based on the range or group of the pilot identifier. Using this information the mobile devices and or can determine whether to extract further information before attempting connection with the access point. Thus where mobile device initially moves into range of base station it can attempt connection thereto upon determining it is a macrocell based on the pilot identifier without further inquiry.

According to another example where mobile device initially moves into range of femtocell it can determine from the pilot identifier that it is a femtocell and can further evaluate the femtocell and or one or more received signals related to the femtocell for a sector identifier restricted association identifier group identifier and or other identifier. Upon receiving such the mobile device can ensure the femtocell or related restricted association or group identifier is in a maintained list of accessible access points before attempting connection establishment with the femtocell for example. In another example the pilot identifier can further be selected or assigned to the femtocell based on whether or not it implements restricted association to what degree it implements restricted association and or the like. In this regard the mobile device can further determine whether to request connection with the femtocell without necessarily needing to further evaluate the femtocell . It is to be appreciated that the pilot identifiers can be divided according to additional factors such as geographical or relative location of the access point transmission frequency ranges power and or periodicities utilized by the access point whether the backhaul associated with the access point is secure or insecure and or a level of the security whether the access point is mobile or stationary service providers or owners or types thereof of the access point etc.

Now referring to a wireless communication system configured to support a number of mobile devices is illustrated. The system provides communication for multiple cells such as for example macrocells A G with each cell being serviced by a corresponding access point A G. As described previously for instance the access points A G related to the macrocells A G can be base stations. Mobile devices A I are shown dispersed at various locations throughout the wireless communication system . Each mobile device A I can communicate with one or more access points A G on a forward link and or a reverse link as described. In addition access points A C are shown. These can be smaller scale access points such as femtocells offering services related to a particular service location as described. The mobile devices A I can additionally communicate with these smaller scale access points A C to receive offered services. The wireless communication system can provide service over a large geographic region in one example e.g. macrocells A G can cover a few blocks in a neighborhood and the femtocell access points A C can be present in areas such as residences office buildings and or the like as described . In an example the mobile devices A I can establish connection with the access points A G and or A C over the air and or over a backhaul connection.

Additionally as shown the mobile devices A I can travel throughout the system and can reselect cells related to the various access points A G and or A C as it moves through the different macrocells A G or femtocell coverage areas. In one example the one or more of the mobile devices A I can be associated with a home femtocell related to at least one of femtocell access points A C. For example mobile device I can be associated with femtocell access point B as its home femtocell. Thus though mobile device I is in macrocell B and thus in coverage area of access point B it can communicate with the femtocell access point B instead of or in addition to access point B. In one example the femtocell access point B can provide additional services to the mobile device I such as desirable billing or charges minute usage enhanced services e.g. faster broadband access media services etc. . Thus when the mobile device I is in range of the femtocell access point B it can be reined in to communicate therewith by favoring the femtocell access point B in reselection.

For example mobile device D can be associated with femtocell access point C. As the mobile device D moves from macrocell C into D and closer to access points D and or C it can begin the cell reselection process as described herein. This can include for example measuring surrounding cell parameters e.g. related to access points C D and C to determine a desirable connection. The parameters can relate to for example signal quality connection throughput services offered a service provider related to the access point and or the like. Prior or subsequent to measuring such parameters the mobile device D can receive pilot signals comprising pilot identifiers related to access points C D and or C for example. Utilizing the pilot identifiers the mobile device D can determine whether additional information regarding the access points is required. As mentioned in one example the access points can select or be assigned e.g. from the wireless network pilot identifiers in a range or group related to an access point type or classification. Thus for instance the mobile device D can determine that the access points C and D are macrocells whereas the access point C is a femtocell.

In another example the femtocell access point C can further select or be assigned a pilot identifier from a range or group that specifies whether the femtocell access points C implements restricted association and or to what extent. Furthermore the pilot identifier range or group utilized can be associated with a service provider or other entity related to the femtocell access point C allowing the mobile device D to efficiently identify information regarding the femtocell access point C and or whether to request connection with the femtocell access point C. It is to be appreciated that the mobile device D can request connection establishment with the access points C or D based on their respective pilot identifiers being in the macrocell group or range in one example.

Where the pilot identifier indicates that the access point is in a range or group for which the mobile device D requires additional information the mobile device D in one example can verify an identifier of the access point as present in a list of accessible access points as described. The list can additionally or alternatively identify groups of access points where a group identifier of the access point can be verified with group identifiers in the list. In the foregoing example the mobile device D can measure parameters for access points C D and C and rank the cells to determine whether to perform cell reselection from access point C to one of the others if their rank is higher. As in the previous example where femtocell access point C relates to a home femtocell of the mobile device D as identified at least in part by the pilot identifier as described it can favor it for reselection e.g. by evaluating an added parameter offset to increase its value and or hysteresis to decrease parameter values of other access points for example . If one or more of the disparate access points D and or C rank higher than the access point C mobile device D can reselect cells related to the disparate access point D or C.

In one example one or more of the disparate access points D and or C can implement restricted association where some mobile devices cannot connect thereto and or the access points D and or C can restrict certain mobile devices with respect to providing signaling data access registration service and or the like. This can be based at least in part on a service provider of the mobile device and the restricted associated access point for example. In another example the restricted association access point can relate to certain mobile devices such as a corporate access point restricting access only to corporate issued mobile devices. Thus if the mobile device D cannot reselect cells related to one or more of the disparate access points D and or C due to restricted association it can attempt cell reselection with one or more of the other ranked access points until it finds an access point to which it can connect. The determination of whether the mobile device D can reselect cells related to the access points can be based at least in part on relating the pilot identifier with a group or range indicative of an access point classification for example.

Furthermore as described the mobile devices A I can maintain a list of accessible access points and or groups thereof. In one example the list can include only certain types of access points such as femtocells since other types of access points such as macrocells can be accessible from substantially any mobile device. The list of accessible access points and or groups can be originally populated for example by one or more access points in communication with the mobile device A I which can retrieve the information from an underlying wireless network as described. As the mobile devices A I move throughout the coverage area of the wireless system and reselect cells as described they can initially evaluate a pilot identifier of access points related to the cells to determine whether further inquiry is desired or required before selecting a cell for reselection.

If the pilot identifier for a given cell or related access point is of a range or group indicating that the cell or access point may implement restricted association the mobile devices A I can first verify the cell or access point or related group as being present in the list where relevant. In one example if the mobile devices A I determine one or more femtocell access points A C to be the highest ranked cell based on measurements as described it can verify that the respective femtocell access point is in the list where the pilot identifiers for the femtocell access points A C indicate that they may implement restricted association and or to what degree they implement restricted association. If not in the list the mobile devices A I can decide not to attempt access to the femtocell access point and can attempt connection with the next highest ranked access point and or attempt to locate another access point on a disparate frequency. It is to be appreciated that in an alternative example a list of inaccessible cells and or groups can be maintained where the mobile devices A I do not attempt connection with cells in the list.

Turning to illustrated is a communications apparatus for employment within a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus can be a base station or a portion thereof a mobile device or a portion thereof or substantially any communications apparatus that receives data transmitted in a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus can include a pilot identifier determiner that can receive a pilot identifier from one or more access points not shown via a pilot signal an access point type determiner that can discern a type of the access point based at least in part on the pilot identifier and an access point interrogator that can request or determine additional information regarding the access point based at least in part on the determined type. For example the pilot identifier space can be partitioned into various ranges or groups to indicate classification or type of an access point access points select or are assigned pilot identifiers from the group or range related to their classification or type.

According to an example the pilot identifier determiner can receive a pilot identifier related to one or more access points. The pilot identifiers can be received in one or more pilot signals and or over a pilot signal channel in a wireless communication network. The pilot identifier determiner can extract the pilot identifier from the pilot signal in one example. Utilizing the pilot identifier the access point type determiner can detect a type or classification of the access point according to a range of the pilot identifier and or a presence within a grouping of pilot identifiers. The communications apparatus can determine the grouping of identifiers from various sources including hard coding the grouping in the apparatus receiving the grouping upon establishing communication with a related wireless network receiving the grouping from one or more access points or disparate apparatuses and or the like. For example pilot identifiers for femtocells can be of a different range than those for macrocells. Further restricted association femtocells can have pilot identifiers of a different range than non restricted association femtocells. Moreover as described the pilot identifier can indicate an extent to which restricted association is implemented e.g. with respect to service registration signaling etc. .

In addition the access point type determiner can determine location frequency ranges utilized periodicities utilized for transmission transmission power whether the access point communicates over a secure or insecure backhaul whether the access point is a mobile or stationary access point and or other communication parameters related to the access point based at least in part on the range of the pilot identifier and or an associated group. Based on the determined type the access point interrogator can request and or receive additional information from the access point. For example where the access point type determiner determines that the access point implements restricted association the access point interrogator can request or determine an identifier related to the access point and or a group related thereto. Using this identifier the communications apparatus can determine whether to request connection establishment with the access point. In one example the communications apparatus can verify presence of the identifier in a list of accessible access points or groups as described above. It is to be appreciated that additional information can be requested and or utilized to determine a subsequent action with respect to the access point.

Now referring to illustrated is a wireless communications system that utilizes pilot identifiers to classify access points. The wireless device and or access points and or can be a base station femtocell mobile device or portion thereof. In one example wireless device can transmit information to access points and or over a reverse link or uplink channel further wireless device can receive information from access points and or over a forward link or downlink channel. Moreover system can be a MIMO system. Also the components and functionalities shown and described below in the wireless device can be present in the access points and or as well and vice versa in one example the configuration depicted excludes these components for ease of explanation.

Wireless device includes a cell reselector that can measure surrounding cell parameters and rank the cells for reselecting one or more of the cells to receive wireless communications a pilot identifier receiver that can obtain a pilot identifier e.g. from a pilot signal related to an access point an access point type determiner that can determine a type of the access point based at least in part on the pilot identifier a restricted association determiner that can receive a restricted association status of the access point based on the determined type and an access list controller that can maintain a list of accessible access points preferred access points related groups of access points and or the like. In one example the list of access points can relate to individual or groups of access points that implement restricted association that the wireless device can access. Thus upon determining an identifier of a restricted association access point the identifier can be verified in the list before attempting connection establishment for example.

The access point includes an access point type specifier that can determine a type of the access point a pilot identifier selector that can select and or be assigned a pilot identifier from a group related to the determined type and a restricted association specifier that can specify whether the access point implements restricted association and or to what extent it implements such as described. It is to be appreciated that the restricted association specifier need not be included in types of access points that do not implement restricted association e.g. macrocells . In an example the pilot identifier selector can select and or be assigned the pilot identifier based on a type location transmission power transmission periodicity transmission frequency range security measure mobility and or other communication parameters of the access point . In this regard a receiver of the identifier can efficiently determine relevant information regarding the access point from the pilot identifier as described.

According to an example as described the wireless device can participate in a wireless communications system traveling around the system and receiving wireless service access from one or more disparate access points such as access point and or . The access points and or can provide broad area coverage such as a base station implementing one or more macrocells and or more localized or specific coverage such as a femtocell configured in a residence office building venue etc. as described. The cell reselector can reselect cells between access points for communication therewith as described when coming into range of a new access point such as access point and out of range of a current access point . This can be determined by evaluating parameters relating to the access points and such that the determination can be based on multiple parameters not just signal strength for example but also access point type services offered available throughput whether it is a home access point for the wireless device etc. as described . In this regard the wireless device supports seamless communications while traveling throughout the wireless network.

According to an example the wireless device can be communicating with access point to receive wireless communication services. The wireless device as described can be mobile and the cell reselector can evaluate surrounding cells to determine when cell reselection is appropriate to continue the wireless communication services. This can occur for example where the wireless device moves in range of an access point improving signal quality thereof while moving away from the connected access point experiencing a degradation in its signal quality. In this regard the cell reselector can measure surrounding cell parameters and rank the cells according to the parameters. When the current access point falls from the top of the ranked list in one example the wireless device can begin cell reselection to the top ranked access point.

Prior or subsequent to ranking the access points the wireless device can efficiently identify information regarding the access points to facilitate subsequent action. For example the access point can transmit a pilot signal that can be evaluated by the wireless device . In one example the access point type specifier can determine one or more types or classifications related to the access point . The pilot identifier selector can then select or be assigned e.g. from a wireless network a pilot identifier from a grouping or range related to the determined type or classification. For example macrocells can utilize a portion of a pilot identifier space femtocells can use another portion cell relay can use yet another portion mobile cell can utilize a portion etc. Additionally or alternatively types within the foregoing groups can be further classified to groups or ranges of identifiers. For example restricted association can utilize a different group within a femtocell group than non restricted groups can be defined based on multiple levels of implemented restricted association broad coverage can utilize a disparate group than local coverage mobile access points can utilize a different group from stationary access points groupings can be based on transmission power frequency periodicity location security service provider or owner of the access point and or the like.

The access point can transmit the pilot identifier to the wireless device over a pilot signal channel and or the like. The wireless device as described can receive the pilot signal as part of a cell reselection initiated by the cell reselector in one example. The pilot identifier receiver can determine a pilot identifier from a pilot signal which can be received over the pilot signal channel in one example. The access point type determiner can detect a type of the access point based on the pilot identifier. As described the access point type determiner can evaluate a group or range in which the pilot identifier falls to efficiently determine a classification or type thereof. For example if the pilot identifier falls within the macrocell group the access point type determiner detects the access point as a macrocell access point and can accordingly request connection establishment without other prerequisite actions for example. Where the pilot identifier falls within a range reserved for femtocells the access point type determiner recognizes the access point as a femtocell and the restricted association determiner can further interrogate the access points or one or more related signals to determine a restricted association identifier. In this regard the restricted association specifier can include a restricted association identifier in one or more broadcast signals such as a beacon pilot etc. and or in response to a request for example. The access list controller can verify the restricted association identifier as present in a list of accessible access point or related group identifiers for example. In addition the cell reselector can determine a sector identifier related to the access point e.g. from a beacon or pilot signal based on a response to a request etc. based on the access point type determiner detecting the access point type as a femtocell and or a femtocell implementing restricted association in one example.

In addition as described the pilot identifier can be selected and or be assigned to the access point to indicate one or more disparate aspects. Thus for example during ranking for cell reselection the access point type determiner can determine additional aspects of the access point related to the specified pilot identifier. For example the pilot identifier can be in a group reserved according to a location of the access point thus the access point type determiner can determine a location of the access point which can be considered in cell reselection regarding the access point . Similarly the pilot identifier can be in a group reserved for access points implementing certain protocols frequencies periodicities security levels service providers access point owners types of owners e.g. commercial governmental personal educational types of access points e.g. mobile stationary etc. and or the like. This information can be efficiently determined by the access point type determiner and utilized in cell reselection by the cell reselector . In addition as described the pilot identifier can additionally be in a group reserved based on restricted association parameters such as whether the access point implements restricted association and also to what extent e.g. signaling service registration etc. .

Referring to methodologies relating to cell reselection and utilizing pilot identifiers to efficiently indicate types and or classifications related to access points are illustrated. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more embodiments occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Turning to a methodology that facilitates cell reselection in wireless communications is displayed. At surrounding cells are measured to determine one or more parameters related thereto. As described the parameters can relate to communication metrics such as signal strength throughput etc. and or one or more additional considerations such as an access point identifier a group identifier services offered a related access provider etc. In addition the parameters can relate to the cell being provided by a home access point which provides enhanced billing aspects additional service or speeds and or the like. The parameters can also relate to offsets or hysteresis to increase consideration of desirable access points such as a home access point for example and or decrease consideration of other access points. At the surrounding cells can be ranked according to the determined parameters. The ranking can indicate an order of desirable cells from which to receive wireless communication services.

At it can be determined whether the highest ranked cell is that currently utilized. Such a determination can be utilized to ensure connection with an optimal access point. If the highest ranked cell is the cell currently utilized to receive wireless communications the method proceeds back to step to again measure surrounding cells. This can be based on a timer in one example as to not flood the network with cell measurements or spend resources by constantly measuring the cells. If the highest ranked cell is not the currently utilized cell at cell reselection can be performed as described herein to reselect the highest ranked cell. It is to be appreciated in one example that once reselection is complete the method in one example can proceed back to step to continue measuring surrounding cells. As described the access points can be base stations femtocells and or the like.

Turning to illustrated is a methodology that determines access point types based on pilot identifiers related thereto. At a pilot signal can be received from an access point. As described the signal can be received over a pilot signal channel and can be transmitted to identify one or more aspects related to the access point. At a pilot identifier is obtained from the pilot signal that identifies the access point. The pilot identifier for example can be comprised within the pilot signal. Thus the identifier can be extracted or otherwise obtained. At a range or group of pilot identifiers to which the pilot identifier relates can be determined. As described the range or group can relate to a classification or type of the access point such as whether the access point is a femtocell or macrocell stationary or mobile a location of the access point a transmission power band or periodicity utilized security aspects of the access point etc. Thus at a type of the access point can be determined based at least in part on the range or group. It is to be appreciated that this information can be subsequently utilized to take one or more subsequent actions with respect to the access point based on the determined type or classification as described.

Turning to illustrated is a methodology that selects and transmits a pilot identifier based on a type of an access point. At a type of an access point can be determined. The type for example can relate to whether the access point is a macrocell or femtocell whether it implements restricted association and or one or more additional parameters as described supra. At a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point can be determined. Thus for example pilot identifiers can be selected from ranges related to one or more aspects of the access point as described. At a pilot identifier can be selected from the determined range. In another example the pilot identifier can be assigned from the range. At a pilot signal comprising the pilot identifier can be transmitted over a wireless network. Thus devices receiving the pilot signal can efficiently identify one or more aspects of the access point based on the pilot identifier as described.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described herein inferences can be made regarding many aspects of cell reselection such as measuring the parameters ranking the cells according to the parameters and or additional parameters and even aspects of actual reselection such as when to perform the reselection etc. as described. As used herein the term to infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. In one example inferences can additionally be made in determining types and or classifications of an access point for determining a group of identifiers from which to select to pilot identifier.

Mobile device can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data information related to available channels data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with estimating and or utilizing a channel e.g. performance based capacity based etc. .

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Processor and or receiver can further be operatively coupled to a pilot identifier receiver that receives a pilot identifier from one or more access points. As described the pilot identifier can be comprised in a received pilot signal. The processor is further operatively coupled to an access point type determiner that can detect a type and or classification of the access point based at least in part on the pilot identifier. For example as described the pilot identifier can have been selected or assigned to the access point based on a type or classification. In this regard the identifier can be within a range and or group of identifiers related to the type and or classification. For example the access point can be a femtocell and the access point type determiner can detect that the pilot identifier fits within a group or range of identifiers indicative of femtocells as opposed to other types of cells. In addition groups or ranges can also indicate aspects related to restricted association as described location service provider owner transmission power band or periodicity and or other aspects related to the access point such as a type mobility etc. Mobile device still further comprises a modulator and transmitter that respectively modulate and transmit signals to for instance a base station another mobile device etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the pilot identifier receiver access point type determiner demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown .

According to an example the access point type determiner can receive or detect a type of the base station . This can relate to for example whether the base station provides macrocell or femtocell coverage whether the base station implements restricted association or an extent to which it implements restricted association location of the base station mobility of the base station other communications parameters of the base station an owner owner type or service provider of the base station and or the like as described. The pilot identifier specifier can select a pilot identifier from a group and or range of identifiers known to indicate the one or more types or classifications related to the base station as described. In addition the transmitter can transmit the pilot identifier in a pilot signal in one example which the mobile device s can receive and subsequently utilize the pilot identifier to efficiently determine the one or more types or classifications. Furthermore although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the access point type determiner pilot identifier specifier demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown .

At base station traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor . According to an example each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM techniques. Additionally or alternatively the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM . The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM etc. selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .

The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In various embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At mobile device the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor can receive and process the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. RX data processor can demodulate deinterleave and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at base station .

A processor can periodically determine which preceding matrix to utilize as discussed above. Further processor can formulate a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.

The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to base station .

At base station the modulated signals from mobile device are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further processor can process the extracted message to determine which preceding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.

Processors and can direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at base station and mobile device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory and that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.

Turning to illustrated is a system that utilizes received pilot identifiers to identify types and or classifications related to one or more access points. System can reside within a base station femtocell mobile device etc. for instance. As depicted system includes functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that act in conjunction. Logical grouping can include means for receiving a pilot signal from an access point . As described the pilot signal can be transmitted by the access point over a pilot signal channel to identify one or more aspects related to the access point. Moreover logical grouping can include means for receiving a pilot identifier comprised within the pilot signal that identifies the access point . The pilot identifier in this regard can be utilized to identify the access point in another example the pilot identifier can indicate additional information. In this regard logical grouping can include means for determining a type of the access point based at least in part on the pilot identifier . As described the pilot identifier can be selected from a range or group that indicates type and or classification information related to the access point. Thus the grouping and or range information can be utilized to determine the type and or classification in one example. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that electrical components and can exist within memory .

Referring to illustrated is a system that selects pilot identifiers from groups or ranges to identify a type and or classification of one or more access points. System can reside within a base station femtocell mobile device etc. for instance. As depicted system includes functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that facilitate selecting the pilot identifiers. Logical grouping can include means for receiving a type of an access point for communicating in a wireless communication network . As described the type can relate to whether the system which can be an access point provides femtocell or macrocell coverage whether it implements restricted association a location of the system an owner or owner type thereof security measurements communication parameters whether the system is stationary or mobile and or the like as described previously. Moreover logical grouping can include means for determining a range of pilot identifiers related to the type of the access point . In this regard the pilot identifier space can be separated to allow efficient identification of the type and or classification. Further logical grouping can include means for selecting a pilot identifier from the range of pilot identifiers for subsequent transmission in a pilot signal over the wireless communication network . Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that electrical components and can exist within memory .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes tangible computer storage media. A storage medium may be any available tangible media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

