---

title: Credit and transaction systems
abstract: An Internet-coupled transaction service has a link to a computer appliance coupled to a merchant site, the computer appliance operated by a person who has selected one or more products or services to purchase at the merchant site, and who has selected, through the merchant site, the transaction service to arrange payment, and software executing from a computer-readable medium accessible to the service. The transaction service, via the software verifies the identity of the person, determines a credit worthiness for the person, and the score being sufficient, arranges payment to be made to the merchant on behalf of the person, and arranges repayment terms with the person for the payment to the merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706631&OS=08706631&RS=08706631
owner: Sound Starts, Inc.
number: 08706631
owner_city: Aromas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080321
---
The present application claims priority to four provisional patent applications being Ser. No. 60 919 814 filed Mar. 22 2007 Ser. No. 60 915 214 filed May 1 2007 Ser. No. 60 951 778 filed Jul. 25 2007 and Ser. No. 60 979 457 filed Oct. 12 2007. The disclosure of all four provisional applications is incorporated in the present case at least by reference.

The present invention is in the area of network transacting systems in general including credit and payment aspects of transactions and pertains in some embodiments more specifically to such systems for matching purchasers with credit vendors arranging and managing transactions and provision for payments and settling of debt balances.

It is well known that a person seeking to purchase products or services may use cash a credit card or a debit card to pay the seller or may arrange with the seller a contract for payment over time. A purchaser in some instances may also arrange for an advance from a credit source such as a finance company to pay the vendor the purchase price and then may repay the finance source according to pre arranged terms. Also in many cases especially those involving large enterprises like department stores and the like the store itself may issue a credit card or may have other sorts of credit arrangements to offer perhaps pre arranged with certain financial institutions. A good example is a car dealership which may have pre arrangements with banks and loan companies. The car dealer may guide and facilitate credit arrangement for a potential buyer.

Even with all of these services available there are still drawbacks and unmet needs. Credit cards typically have fixed interest rates and payment requirements. Also in arrangement with purchases at greater amounts than most credit cards will provide with banks and loan companies for example takes time and the credit risk for the lender must be determined which usually happens through well known credit tracking companies such as Equifax for example. Even after a purchaser s credit worthiness is determined it is still often necessary for a credit application and a contract to be prepared and executed.

Currently sellers of goods and services either through brick and mortar stores or network based such as in the Internet have no way to process consumer transactions in a way that is analogous to business transactions. When a merchant makes a business transaction the merchant typically bills the business for the goods or services rendered typically with Net 30 terms. If the business entity does not pay by end of the term i.e. 30 days then the businesses are usually charged interest.

What is clearly needed are systems whereby merchants may very quickly and with assurance assess credit worthiness of potential buyers and once that worthiness is established partner the potential buyers with one or more of a plurality of credit vendors who may compete for the business all arrangements being done quickly and substantially at the point of purchase.

The present inventor being aware of the growth of Internet commerce even in the face of reluctance by many otherwise willing customers to share credit card information on the Internet has devised a service that provides credit to worthy customers without a need for the customers to provide credit card information.

In one embodiment of the invention an Internet coupled transaction service is provided comprising a link to a computer appliance coupled to a merchant site the computer appliance operated by a person who has selected one or more products or services to purchase at the merchant site and who has selected through the merchant site the transaction service to arrange payment and software executing from a computer readable medium accessible to the service. The transaction service via the software verifies the identity of the person determines credit worthiness for the person and if the person is determined to be credit worthy offers to arrange a payment to be made to the merchant on behalf of the person and if the person selects the offering the transaction service arranges repayment terms with the person for the payment to the merchant.

In another aspect of the invention an Internet coupled transaction service is provided comprising a link to a merchant server coupled to an interactive transaction interface in a physical retail store the transaction interface operated by an employee of the retail store for managing sales transactions for products or services offered for sale by the retail store and selected for purchase by a customer in the retail store and software executing from a computer readable medium accessible to the service. Details of the purchase and identification information for the customer are entered at the interactive interface and the transaction service via the software verifies the identity of the customer determines a credit worthiness score for the customer and the score being sufficient arranges payment to be made to the merchant on behalf of the customer and arranges repayment terms with the customer for the payment to the merchant.

In yet another aspect of the invention a method for managing transactions is provided comprising steps for a at an Internet connected transaction service linked to an appliance typically a PC operated by a person also linked to an Internet merchant site the person having selected via a browser executing in the appliance a PC one or more products or services offered for sale at the Internet merchant site determining credit worthiness for the person b upon the credit worthiness being sufficient arranging payment to be made to the merchant on behalf of the person and c arranging repayment terms with the person for the payment made to the merchant.

In still another aspect of the invention a method for managing transactions is provided comprising steps for a at an Internet connected transaction service linked to a merchant server coupled to an interactive transaction interface in a physical retail store which is an outlet for the merchant the transaction interface operated by an employee of the retail store for managing sales transactions for products or services offered for sale by the retail store and selected for purchase by a customer in the retail store determining credit worthiness for the customer b upon the credit worthiness being sufficient arranging payment to be made to the merchant on behalf of the person and c arranging repayment terms with the person for the payment made to the merchant.

The present invention in one embodiment allows merchants to enable their consumer purchasers buyers customers to establish credit in near real time when making a purchase.

As is the case with most on line merchants payment options include at least use of a valid credit or debit card. There may be other options as well such as a purchase order and bill me later or arranging payment with a third party. In the system illustrated by there is yet another payment option at merchant available to buyer . That option is a hyperlink labeled NOCA which initiates services of a payment and credit option site of the same name in this example . NOCA is in this example a name to represent a host providing services according to an embodiment of the present invention. That name might well be different in other embodiments.

When and if a buyer of a product or service initiates hyperlink or otherwise initiates a request to pay by NOCA software executing at the merchant s site interacts in one embodiment with software executing on the buyers appliance to open a connection with NOCA site where services may be provided through software operating on the NOCA site. Software in one embodiment is a browser re direct or a browser plug in that may operate with any of the well known browser software currently in use. In some other embodiments some communication may be accomplished between merchant and NOCA site over a direct connection . In a preferred embodiment transactions are processed through the buyer site so persistent tokens may be accessed user identity may be challenged and to negotiate and validate terms and conditions of various transactions of which the buyer may be a part.

In a broad sense NOCA operates to authenticate the buyer in this embodiment using at least information from the merchant to authenticate the buyer such information could consist of user s prior transaction history with the merchant which is passed to Noca as a single score to assess the credit worthy status of the buyer once authenticated to provide directly or through a set of lender s payment to the merchant for goods and services in the buyer s online shopping cart for purchase assuming of course credit worthiness and subsequently in some embodiments to assist the buyer in making payments on credit extended through the NOCA site.

In one embodiment NOCA associates with a set of lenders illustrated in as Lender Lender through Lender n. There is no limitation as to the nature of the lenders as the term may encompass enterprises or even persons willing to cooperate with NOCA to pay for products and services on behalf of buyers and to be repaid directly by the buyer per terms and conditions established between the buyer and buyer s lender of choice with interest or by NOCA through NOCA managing transactions between the buyer the merchant and the lender. NOCA will in many embodiments facilitate money or other value transfer between the buyer and the lender but NOCA itself is not underwriting the transaction s in any preferred embodiment.

Lenders may be banks or credit unions but may also be enterprises of many other sorts and may also be persons who are legally authorized to underwrite the buyer s purchases with respect to the pertinent laws of extending credit and underwriting as applicable. An object is to create and maintain opportunities for a large number of enterprises to be able to offer credit to buyers in such situations. In some embodiments the relationship between NOCA and lenders may be in the nature of an ongoing auction wherein lenders compete for underwriting credit for buyers. In other aspects there may be many other criteria upon which a lender may be selected to underwrite payment to the merchant on behalf of the buyer.

At the point of purchase there may be any one of several different circumstances. In one case for example the buyer may be a new buyer for the particular merchant therefore having no transaction history with that merchant may have no history with other on line merchants and may also be unknown to NOCA. In this case the following steps may take place 

In the case that the buyer has on online and or offline transactional history the buyer s risk score may be determined based on his her transaction history with various merchants. Some basic tenets of the system in an embodiment are if the buyer has already transacted with merchant at least once merchant will likely have a profile for the buyer and at least a short purchase history.

The situations described above attain in cases mostly where potential buyers are not fully integrated into the overall NOCA system which includes all of the on line merchants who are associated with or subscribers to NOCA and the lenders likewise associated. As the system matures however there will be a large number of merchants lenders and buyers in full association in the NOCA system. In the mature case many if not most buyers selecting NOCA at a merchant site will be regular customers of that merchant or at least of other merchants in the NOCA system and will be enrolled as NOCA associates. The process is quite automatic in this case and may be a one click process. When such a buyer selects the NOCA option the payment to the merchant is nearly instantly made and the account balance at NOCA is incremented.

Even for existing users of NOCA system as buyers regular reassessment of credit worthiness can be done and buyers are kept informed of current status. VIP treatment may also be established for buyers who are highly rated and special purchase programs discounts and the like may be offered. In some cases buyers may establish preference profiles with NOCA and NOCA may mine information from associated merchants and other sources as well and alert buyer associates of good deals and special purchase opportunities according to the buyer s preferences. This system may also be planet wide and buyers may be apprised of purchase offers for travel and other services beyond just specific products. This sort of service may extend to airlines hotels tours indeed to almost anything that mat be for sale.

In some cases a buyer may be denied due to a low credit score. In such a case in one embodiment NOCA will have a service for helping that buyer become a fully accredited associate of NOCA by explaining diplomatically how the system works where the problem lies and how the problem may be overcome and corrected. Specific programs may be offered either by NOCA or by associated third parties to help people become associated to be able to partake of the considerable advantages of being a NOCA associate.

In the descriptions above it may seem that transactions are handled one at a time and incrementally. Actually in a fully mature system hundreds of thousands of transactions may be approved and accomplished each day or even more. An individual lender may approve and fund for example several thousand payments to merchants in a particular day and buyers may make thousands of payments to NOCA that are to accrue to that same lender.

The descriptions above apply specifically to on line buyers and systems. It is well known however that only a relatively small portion of the world wide population shops primarily on line and the greater portion do not yet nearly everyone shops somewhere.

In a buyer has selected items to purchase from displays at for example a department store and has presented these items to a clerk for purchase. In the conventional situation clerk would compute the total including applicable taxes and elicit from buyer desired payment type which conventionally might be by credit card debit card check or cash.

In an embodiment of the present invention the department store s local system operating for example on server connected in one example to check out stations such as stations and with clerk in attendance by a local area network LAN is enabled by NOCA and may operate software as a NOCA client or subscriber through terminal via LAN and server the terminal operable by clerk at the check out station.

In one instance assume that buyer is an enrolled NOCA user. In this instance buyer will have a transaction history with the store merchant or at least with other merchants either on line conventional or both and NOCA will have a record most likely sufficient for validation for nearly real time transaction. Buyer having selected items tells clerk he wishes to pay by NOCA. There needs to be a mechanism for verifying this buyer as a NOCA user. In one embodiment the buyer may have a NOCA ID card which in some cases may be a smart card with more than a conventional magnetic strip. In this case the buyer or the clerk may interface the ID card to a reader terminal connected to the merchant s digital system and software and will cause information on the smartcard to be sent to NOCA. At NOCA the ID is confirmed the creditworthiness is confirmed a payment increment sufficient to pay for items is created and payment is made or at least authorized to the merchant of by NOCA. At the same time the buyer s account at NOCA is updated to add the new amount to the buyer s debt along with detailed information for the time of purchase the items purchased and so forth.

The description just above that payment is made to the merchant means in this instance that data at NOCA and at the merchant is at least updated as to the fluid account between the enrolled merchant and NOCA so that the payment is accounted for. Actual payment may well be made by for example funds transfer from one account to another at some period such as once every twenty four hours at some agreed to time in the early morning hours. When such payment is made data is attached and associated to the account for all identities products and services provided and so forth so accounts are completely reconciled on both sides. In some cases this accounting and transfer may occur by agreement not with the specific merchant where the sale took place but with a regional headquarters or a parent corporation of the merchant.

There may be a variety of ways identity is established and verified for a buyer under different circumstances. Such ID may include one or more of many known ID verification methods and apparatus such as fingerprint scan iris scan voice print password code OpenID and many more. The smart card example is just one example of how ID may be established.

We may also assume the case where a buyer does not transact with any merchants on line and has no online history. Many people are still wary of Internet commerce but may still benefit from NOCA association. In such cases enterprises like the department store described above with reference to may enroll with NOCA and become enabled just as shown in and may inform their customers of the possibility of NOCA association and the potential advantages of such association. So a customer buyer may fill out an application at a brick and mortar merchant which the merchant will upload to NOCA. One the buyer is enrolled at NOCA and credit worthiness is established that buyer may be issued suitable ID to transact as a NOCA enrolled associate.

In a broader sense enterprises other than brick and mortar retail outlets may avail themselves of the advantages accruable to NOCA associates. Think contractors doctors lawyers real estate firms flea market sellers travel agencies door to door sales persons and just about every case of someone with something to offer to someone else who might buy creating a transaction. Also in a broad sense commercial enterprises or anyone who has something to sell and persons who purchase may be elicited in just about any way to become enrolled with NOCA.

At service stations there may be equipment installed for a NOCA enrolled buyer to provide identity and gasoline purchases may be added to a buyer s NOCA account. Sellers in booths at flea markets and the like may operate much as depicted above for door to door salespersons.

An enrolled buyer in NOCA will have a profile that may be updated in repository on a regular basis both by the buyer and by NOCA. An active profile for an enrolled buyer will comprise contact information the buyers secure ID the buyer s current credit score transaction histories and much more and may also comprise a set of thresholds related perhaps to credit score for what total indebtedness the particular buyer may incur with NOCA and still be approved quickly and regularly for purchases. In some cases a threshold will be set for certain kinds of purchases such as real estate. As an example a particular buyer may be approved to purchase real estate or not. And if so there may be a threshold above which a purchase may not be approved. The same sort of criteria may attain for other high ticket purchases like automobiles and trucks. A VIP buyer who may be quite wealthy may be approved to buy just about anything and everything but regular and ongoing maintenance on the profile will still be done.

With the above teaching in mind it should be clear that essentially the entire life of financial transactions of a person may be handled in NOCA. One person may consolidate bills and purchases at will and in any one of many ways through NOCA.

There is no impediment to a single person being enrolled as both a buyer and seller in NOCA. In fact in one aspect there may be a category of NOCA Buyer Seller. So in another aspect of the invention in a mature system where there may be for example millions of enrolled persons and other entities the same persons may buy and sell essentially anything through NOCA. An enrolled Buyer Seller for example may instead of planning a yard sale may offer used items for sale through NOCA to other Buyer Sellers and Buyers. Software at NOCA may be enabled to list and display such items for sale which are not limited in form but may be categorized in certain ways and offered for sale in a variety of ways. A Buyer Seller may sell his house or his car which may be purchased by an enrolled buyer and financing may be arranged through the set of lenders .

In yet another embodiment of the invention resellers may use NOCA services to buy stock for resale from wholesale suppliers. Such activity may be handled by software at NOCA with special attributes for such situations. Businesses may buy goods and services for operation as well such as stationary furniture et al. through NOCA and in the cases where financing is necessary the same may be arranged through the set of lender s 11 and maintenance of such accounts may be entirely at NOCA or at the lender or both with account reconciliation periodically. All sorts of business to business services may be thus provided.

In yet another aspect of the invention an additional option is provided for consumers buyers especially for on line transactions. It was described above relative to that a merchant site might have a NOCA option which may be labeled with a different company name or enterprise identity . In another embodiment the choices may be more specific as illustrated for example by which is an illustration of an exemplary interactive payment window displayed on a desktop that might be presented at a merchant site.

In this option the buyer is presented with two radio buttons and might be check boxes . One is to pay be credit card the other to pay by credit without having to give the merchant us your credit card number. The second option hosted by an enterprise providing services according to an embodiment of the present invention initiates services providing credit without a need for entering credit card information.

For online transactions traditional credit card payment systems rely on the buyer either manually inputting or storing their credit card number at the merchant site or at a third party site accessible to and trusted by the end buyer. In this embodiment of the invention if the buyer chooses the no credit card option the buyer is instead taken to a next screen where he she is presented with terms and conditions of credit being offered. The next screen is not shown but is an interactive window as in but one that presents information for the potential buyer regarding terms and conditions for extending credit. If the buyer accepts the terms and conditions he she is issued credit from an issuing institution such as a bank based on a risk profile unique to that buyer. In this process the buyer is identified by NOCA accessible data is retrieved to determine a risk profile or score that score is sent to at least one but possibly more than one lending institution which if the institution finds the buyer creditworthy enables a credit offer for the buyer. Alternately the information from lender s may be cached at NOCA s servers and thus the credit decision making could happen in real time on NOCA s platform without the need to communicate with the lender s . The terms and conditions shown to the buyer reflect the terms and conditions the lender s is willing to offer credit to the buyer who is not party to the calculations on his or her behalf behind the scenes that is the process is transparent to the buyer.

When the buyer selects the no credit card or an alternately named option identity is verified using an aggregate system which relies on the buyer s registered credentials with NOCA with the transacting merchant as well as possibly other merchants all aggregated and verified in real time obviating the need for buyer to supply a traditional 16 digit card number.

In some cases the buyer may be well known to NOCA and to the merchant and may have a profile already indicating credit worthiness and a quantitative threshold as well. In this case approval may be very quick and the transaction can proceed rapidly.

If the buyer has never transacted with the merchant but has transacted with another merchant in NOCA s system then the same process may be followed as in the previously described process above with the exception that the Merchant will get authentication from NOCA for the buyer.

If the buyer has never transacted with the merchant and the buyer never transacted with any other merchant in the NOCA system 

In embodiments of the present invention when a buyer transacts online NOCA logs the transaction with a tracking ID that will uniquely identify that specific transaction with the merchant with NOCA and with the buyer.

Chargebacks are defined as transactions on a buyer s credit statement that the buyer s dispute with the merchant. There may be many reasons motivating a need for a chargeback therefore in embodiments of the invention mechanisms are put in place to resolve almost any issue between the buyer and the merchant. An online chargeback dispute resolution system is initiated that connects the buyer the merchant and the credit institution online seamlessly enabling dispute resolution and tracking. In one embodiment of the invention the process works as follows 

 A When a buyer transacts with a merchant online NOCA will record the transaction details including description of item s and shipping information. This information will be recorded as part of the transaction process if and when the buyer selects NOCA s payment system as the payment option.

NOCA will use the information recorded to query a shipper s online systems using publicly available Application Programming Interfaces APIs and track delivery and receipt. NOCA may subsequent to delivery and receipt of the shipped good s and or service s by the buyer send an electronic confirmation request or survey. This electronic confirmation request survey may be sent as an email with an interactive form that the Buyer can respond to the responses of which will be received by NOCA online and summarized in its database. These responses may or may not be shared with the originating Merchant.

Should a buyer wish to dispute goods or services received from the Merchant the buyer can log in to the NOCA website and click a dispute button then submit a dispute request. The dispute request will be tracked online by NOCA and will be resolved with the Merchant using the tracking data collected by NOCA during the delivery of goods and or services. Since NOCA will have the tracking data this process will alleviate all the false disputes based on missed delivery or non receipt of delivery. In addition it will provide a way for the buyer to track the dispute status and resolution online.

In one embodiment of the invention a method and system is provided for using a buyer s existing identity by NOCA which as described above may have different names in many other embodiments with an online merchant for processing a payment transaction. This obviates a need for the buyer to provide additional payment system details and or Identity associated with such a system. This unique system retrieves or derives a buyer s identity from an existing identity with in an online merchant s data repository and uses it for processing payment of the buyer s transaction with the online merchant.

In this unique system the identity can be used either as is or with augmentation of additional data either residing at NOCA or data which NOCA has access to from third parties. Getting retrieving buyer identity from an online merchant in near real time for processing payment of an online transaction obviates any need for the buyer to re input identity for the payment system. In addition this identity either by itself or augmented further using information available to NOCA may serve as a basis for authenticating the buyer as well as determining the buyer s risk score transaction amount authorization for a financial institution underwriting the transaction providing credit .

In a preferred embodiment all of this processing takes place in real time before the buyer in the online process reaches the checkout option. The online merchant gets a response from NOCA as to whether the buyer is authentic and has a credit worthy score. If the buyer is credit worthy then the merchant may also gets an upper limit up to which the bank or other credit providing institution is willing to underwrite the transaction.

Buyer an online entity usually a person that will initiate an online or an offline transaction. If the transaction is online NOCA will log the transaction with a tracking ID that will uniquely identify the transaction with the merchant NOCA and the end buyer. Although buyers may most often be persons the concept extends to other entities as well such as corporations non profit organizations and government entities all of whom may initiate transactions as buyers.

NOCA online network entity enterprise enabling buyers to transact online or offline without using credit cards. A new debit credit payment network service. NOCA will not have effective fiduciary control over the buyer s or the merchant s money at any financial institution but will simply act as a network to process transactions.

For a Debit transaction the process described above can be simplified in either of the cases whether the buyer has an account with the merchant or not.

Step 2 Buyer is presented a form in the image of check. The form requires the buyer to fill out bank identifying information i.e. Routing and Account . Should the buyer not have access to Routing and Account NOCA will provide a mechanism to get it in real time by accessing the user s online bank account. Once the buyer fills out the Routing and Account this information will be sent posted securely to NOCA s servers.

In the process just described with the aid of communication between merchant and NOCA is indirect routed through the buyer s computer. In some embodiments based on an established relationship between a merchant and NOCA there may be more direct communication between the merchant and NOCA such as by Internet links between the two directly.

In a further embodiment of the present invention a method and system is provided for using a social graph as known in a social network to authenticate a buyer and to determine a credit risk score for the buyer. In this embodiment the definitions are the same as the definitions listed above except for social graph and risk score which are defined as 

Social graph a depiction of the connections that an individual has in a social network. The number of connections the type of connection e.g. weak strong etc. the length of connection when was the connection established and how long has it been since establishment attributes of a person at the other end of a connection are all attributes that may constitute a social graph.

Risk score or credit risk score is a normalized score that will allow an underwriter to determine a ceiling amount and a length of time i.e. the terms on which to extend credit to the buyer.

Each member of a social network will have a social graph which may be uniquely used to determine a possible risk score for an individual.

In essence this is using the social graph in the social network to provide a transitive trust relationship between the buyer and NOCA i.e. if the buyer is not a member of NOCA s system but one of the user s connected friends is then depending on whether that friend is willing to confirm or not that the original user is indeed who he she says they are the buyer could leverage his her social graph to get a credit risk score and subsequently be underwritten by a credit provider.

In time the social graph procedure could provide a more granular risk score when augmented with other information available about the buyer in NOCA s database i.e. information such as size type and frequency of transactions size type and frequency of the connected friend s transactions etc.

Those with skill in the art will be aware that there are many alterations that might be made in the embodiments described above without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention therefore the invention must be limited only by the claims that follow.

