---

title: Force beam elevator and method of use for determining absolute flow and for calibration
abstract: A system for ascertaining absolute fluid flow in a passage way comprises: a force beam that is inserted into a fluid; a carriage to support the beam, the carriage enabling the beam to move vertically in a fixed plane; one or more load cells incorporated with the beam to measure force applied to the beam by the fluid flow; a data recorder and processor for integrating the measurements and for running algorithms that convert the integrated measurements into a value of absolute flow and a controller to operate the system. In some embodiments the force beam may be light and neutrally buoyant in the fluid. Measurements are taken at pre-specified intervals while moving the beam in a vertical plane perpendicular to the direction of fluid flow. One application is the calibration of Winter-Kennedy piezometers in the barrels of large water turbines. A method of use is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07831397&OS=07831397&RS=07831397
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07831397
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080118
---
Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States. This and related patents are available for licensing to qualified licensees. Please contact Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

There are two classifications of flow measurement in hydraulic turbines absolute and relative. Absolute is divided into volumetric flow rate and weight flow rate. The terms apply to both reaction and impulse turbines. A reaction turbine is classified as such because of a pressure change across a turbine runner. Impulse turbines have no reaction i.e. no change in pressure.

Relative flow measure means that flow is measured in relative terms. A surrogate parameter is measured and the relative flow is calculated implied from that measured surrogate. The actual flow rate is estimated or indexed via the flow s effect on the surrogate thus a relative efficiency test is termed an index test. For example as the flow in a turbine increases the water level in the gate slot decreases due to increased velocity head in the passage under the slot and increased trash rack losses. Thus as flow increases the difference between the gate slot water height and the forebay height increases. Thus the difference in height may be used as a surrogate measure of flow.

A standard method of measuring relative flow employs Winter Kennedy piezometers or WK s. Two WK s are placed on the spiral or semi spiral case of a turbine one on the inside and the other on the outside in the same radial plane. The difference in angular momentum due to different radial displacement from the center of rotation generates a difference in piezometric pressure on the two taps. Since angular momentum is a function of the square of the velocity the relative flow rate is proportional to the square root of the difference in piezometric pressure. Since this method measures change in angular momentum it is measuring a relative weight flow rate. However when it is independently calibrated it is done in terms of an absolute volumetric flow rate.

Relative flow is often used to establish a relative efficiency profile e.g. the power level at which peak efficiency occurs and the one percent operating limits since a 1 change in relative efficiency equates to a 1 change in absolute efficiency. Further in Kaplan turbines relative flow may be used to establish the optimum blade to gate cam curve.

A relative flow measure applies only to the unit on which it is measured i.e. the same absolute flow rate in two different units will produce different calibrations of the WK s. Thus the relative efficiency of two units can not be compared and absolute efficiency measures must be employed for any meaningful comparison.

Techniques exist to measure absolute flow in hydraulic turbines but most have limited application such as requiring a constant cross section over a length of the flow passage. Thus for run of the river Kaplan turbines where the shape of the water in the passage is continually changing only a few methods of questionable accuracy are available.

The current ASME test code PTC 19 2002 describes the following methods of flow measuring current meter pressure time ultrasonic Venturi meter dye solution and volumetric as well as the thermodynamic method of measuring efficiency. The 1992 ASME test code described other methods to include pitometer pitot tube and salt velocity. Other methods include traveling screen weir and scintillation.

Conventional current meters used today are of the type employing the point velocity methods. Point velocity methods measure point velocities over a cross section and integrate the resulting measurements to yield mean velocity and from that flow rate. Current meters employ small propellers mounted to a frame in a water passage. The speed of rotation of the propeller is proportional to the current velocity. These meters are calibrated in a laboratory flume. Variance in current meter measurements is introduced by the obstruction to flow from the frame itself and the misalignment of the meter with respect to the velocity vector.

Another method is the pressure time method or Gibson method that measures a transient pressure increase or water hammer resultant from a rapid closure of the wicket gates causing the momentum of the fluid column in the penstock to decrease. Integrating the change in momentum over time yields a weight flow rate that must be converted to a volumetric flow rate.

There are three ultrasonic methods for measuring flow. The first measures separate transit times of pulses sent obliquely upstream and downstream and averages the velocity vectors of the fluid crossing the path taken by the ultrasonic pulses. Other methods measure the refraction of an ultrasonic beam by fluid velocity or by measuring the Doppler frequency shift of an ultrasonic signal reflected by flowing water or by moving particles. The first method is accepted by the ASME code and its accuracy is a function of the number of acoustic paths averaged over the monitored cross section.

Venturi meters are used to measure absolute flow in piping such as that used in smaller penstocks of hydraulic turbines or in the lab. A Venturi also termed a DeLaval nozzle measures the difference between the pressure head at the inlet and at the minimum cross section to establish flow rate.

The dye dilution method injects a dye tracer upstream at a constant rate into the flow. Samples are drawn downstream upon complete mixing and analyzed to determine concentration. Flow rate is proportional to the dilution experienced by the dye.

The volumetric method establishes average flow rate by monitoring the change in a reservoir s fluid height over time. The method requires a survey of the reservoir to establish an accurate relationship between volume change and fluid height.

The thermodynamic method measures the efficiency of the turbine directly by accurately measuring the temperature of the water before and after the turbine and calculates the flow rate from the difference in the temperature. Because of the high specific heat of water this method is restricted to turbines having a hydraulic head greater than 300 feet.

The Cole Reversible Pitometer is a point source method that uses the difference in pressure created by flow over a pair of movable orifices to yield local velocity. One orifice faces directly upstream and the other downstream. The upstream orifice measures the water flow and its velocity directly and the downstream orifice measures the effect induced by the suction from the wake of the water flow around the orifice.

The Pitot Static Tube is another point source method like the Cole unit except that the second orifice is at 90 to the upstream facing one generally on the side of the penetrating pipe used to house the first orifice.

The Allen Salt Velocity method uses a slug of salt to increase the electrical conductivity of the water. Knowing where the slug is inserted and where the electrical conductivity of the water containing the dispersed slug is taken downstream the time difference is used to establish average velocity and then calculate average flow.

The Anderson Traveling Screen method employs an impermeable screen mounted on tracks that is inserted perpendicular to the flow. It is very accurate but suitable for measuring flow only in relatively narrow open channels of uniform cross section due to its configuration.

Weirs are used to measure flow in an open channel being analogous to a dam being overtopped. Sharp crested weirs have a thin knife edge top whereas a broad crested weir allows the water flowing on top to reside there for a sufficient time to establish a critical depth. In both types the height of the water column behind the weir is measured to estimate flow rate.

The scintillation method employs acoustic signals to map the passage of a turbulence pattern on a horizontal line in a vertical cross section and records the passage of that same map as it occurs a short distance downstream before momentum can change the pattern. The time to travel the short distance yields an average local velocity. Integrating the local velocities across a series of acoustic beams in a vertical cross section then yields a flow rate estimate.

For all methods of measuring absolute flow only a few may be used with the large Kaplan turbines. The pressure time Gibson and Allen salt methods are eliminated because of the absence of a constant flow cross section over a significant length. The Venturi method is used only with penstocks. The low hydraulic head of a Kaplan turbine eliminates the Thermodynamic Method. The volumetric and Anderson moving screen methods can not be used where the natural river is both the forebay and the tailrace. Kaplan turbines on rivers have multiple intake bays and each bay on a turbine has different flow rates eliminating the dye dilution method that requires an injection proportional to flow rate in each bay. The pitometer methods are not useful for large intakes used in Kaplan turbines since the number of pitometer lines needed to be drawn up the gate or bulkhead slots would be unmanageable.

Ultrasonic methods have been used on Kaplan turbines with some success however the large intake barrels require a large number of transducers that must be permanently mounted to be aligned obliquely to the flow thus the initial setup cost per unit is high.

The scintillation method may be applied to run of the river Kaplan turbines however experience has shown that the method significantly underestimates actual flow. Further the cost of a scintillation frame is about 300 000 in 2007 dollars for a typical intake gate slot while the test contractor charges about 75 000 100 000 per test. Further the flow estimates are not available until several months after test.

Currently there are devices commercially available that can measure flow in turbine units served by penstocks. Employing these devices is so expensive that many projects choose not to use them. For turbines that have short intakes without penstocks there is no reasonably cost effective and accurate method for measuring absolute flow. By accurately measuring absolute hydraulic flow Q the maximum efficiency for individual turbine units may be determined. For example accurately measuring Q identifies those units that are most efficient and should be employed the most i.e. economic unit dispatch.

Thus what is needed is a cost effective method employing commercial off the shelf COTS components that may be employed in various configurations without unduly interfering with operations of existing systems. The measurement apparatus should also provide real time accurate absolute flow measurements. Select embodiments of the present invention provide this capability.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method for ascertaining absolute fluid flow in a passage way comprises inserting into a fluid a configuration of known cross section that incorporates one or move instruments sensors for measuring force applied to the configuration i.e. the force resultant from the fluid flow moving the configuration in a vertical plane approximately perpendicular to the direction of the flow while taking measurements of the force at pre specified intervals via the sensors recording the measurements integrating the measurements and employing one or more algorithms converting the integrated measurements into a value of absolute flow. In select embodiments of the present invention the configuration of known cross section incorporating one or more instruments is light and neutrally buoyant in the fluid.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method further comprises adjusting the value of absolute flow to account for factors impacting the measurement of the force. In select embodiments of the present invention the adjustment is accomplished by employing one or more algorithms.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method is also employed to calibrate instruments for determining flow.

In select embodiments of the present invention the passage way is an intake barrel of a water turbine. In select embodiments of the present invention the passage way is an open channel of known cross section.

In select embodiments of the present invention the configuration of known cross section is a cylinder such as a pipe.

In select embodiments of the present invention the load cells comprise two load cell pairs one pair mounted on each end of the cylinder restraints each load cell of a pair mounted approximately 900 one from the other and each load cell mounted approximately 45 from the horizontal x plane.

In select embodiments of the present invention the configuration is pre loaded employing bolts connected to two ends of the configuration.

In select embodiments of the present invention a system for ascertaining absolute fluid flow in a passage way comprises a configuration of known cross section that is inserted under pre specified conditions into a fluid a carriage to support the configuration the carriage enabling the configuration to move vertically in a fixed plane one or more instruments sensors incorporated with the configuration such that the instruments take measurements of force applied to the configuration the force resultant from the fluid flow the measurements taken at pre specified intervals while moving the configuration in a vertical plane approximately perpendicular to the direction of the fluid flow one or more data recorders for recording the measurements one or more computing devices for integrating the measurements and for running one or more algorithms that convert the integrated measurements into a value of absolute flow and one or more control mechanisms that facilitate operation of the system. In select embodiments of the present invention the configuration of known cross section incorporating one or more instruments is light and neutrally buoyant in the fluid.

In select embodiments of the present invention an algorithm is employed to adjust the integrated measurements for error induced by the measurement technique.

In select embodiments of the present invention the configuration of known cross section is a cylinder such as a pipe.

In select embodiments of the present invention the instrument is one or more load cells. In select embodiments of the present invention the load cell are arranged in one pair mounted on each end of a cylinder each load cell of a pair mounted approximately 90 one from the other each load cell mounted approximately 45 to the horizontal x plane.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system comprises one or more loading bolts for pre loading the configuration.

In select embodiments of the present invention the configuration is emplaced in a trolley incorporating connection points for mounting the configuration plates for mounting the instruments wheels for aligning and maintaining the configuration in relation to the direction of the flow and one or more connectors for affixing to one or more cables for hoisting the trolley.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system employs one or more stabilizer devices for stabilizing the configuration in the flow.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system employs a support for carrying and operating the carriage the support comprising one or more drum hoists one or more cables connected to a drum hoist one or more hoist shafts connected to one or more drum hoists one or more motors connected with the hoist shafts a frame supporting the drum hoists the hoist shafts and the motor such that one or more each of drum hoists hoist shafts and motors are affixed to the frame and such that the cables are connected to the configuration to enable vertical transport thereof.

In select embodiments of the present invention the frame incorporates connection points for mounting a data recorder a computing device and the controller apparatus.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system employs communications links between the control apparatus the data recorder device and the instruments the communications links selected from the group consisting of hard wire fiber optics wireless transmission paths sonic paths hydraulic paths pneumatic paths and combinations thereof.

In select embodiments of the present invention the data recorder is incorporated in the instruments sensors .

In select embodiments of the present invention the system is employed to calibrate flow measurement devices.

Select embodiments of the present invention are able to cost effectively measure flows for all turbine types. No permanent modifications to a power plant or its machines are required. Further select embodiments of the present invention are portable thus a single unit could measure flows in all turbines at a given site. For example one apparatus may calibrate all Winter Kennedy s WK s for all units. Once properly calibrated the WK s could be used on demand to define absolute flow and maximize efficiency within the individual units and maximize the efficiency of unit dispatch i.e. placing units in service in the order of inherent efficiency. Accurately measuring Q could increase power outputs at hydroelectric dams from 1 to 5 using the same amount of water. A 1 efficiency gain for one 85 MW turbine yields annual benefits of about 223 000 in 2007 dollars. There are over a hundred turbines in the U.S. Pacific Northwest alone. Accurately measuring Q with select embodiments of the present invention would yield a 100 return on investment ROI in a few months. Another application for select embodiments of the present invention is accurate measurement of open channel flow in a flume with a defined cross section.

Conventionally attempts to quantify volumes of flow in hydroelectric turbines focused on measuring the velocity and direction of water flow. This is very difficult due to the variance in direction and velocity of the water. Select embodiments of the present invention derive hydraulic flow Q by measuring kinetic energy exerted by water mass on an object suspended in the flow. In select embodiments of the present invention the object is preferably a cylindrical beam that spans the width of turbine intakes. In select embodiments of the present invention the beam is raised at a uniform rate from the bottom of the intake barrel to the top. Load cells connected to the end restraints of the beam collect measurements of the force resultant drag exerted on the beam by the flow. As the beam is raised the measurements from the end loadings are summed and recorded. From this data average velocities are calculated. By summing incremental average velocities the average velocity for the cross sectional area of the intake barrel is derived. This measured average velocity multiplied by the cross sectional area yield total flow Q entering the turbine.

The direction and magnitude of the summation of the force vectors acting upon a cylindrical beam suspended in a hydraulic flow in a conduit with a defined cross section can be determined by measuring the forces exerted upon the end constraints of the beam provided that the beam is elevated thru the entire length of this cross sectional area at a constant rate. This is the basic concept upon which select embodiments of the present invention are based.

The drag coefficient is a function of the Reynolds Number and varies with the shape of the object and the velocity of the flow. Table 1 shows the calculated change in as a function of Reynold s Number and fluid velocity for a 12 diameter pipe.

For a pipe cylinder does not vary significantly for the range of conditions experienced within a hydroelectric unit thus for a pipe may be approximated to be 0.34 in highly turbulent flows. An exact drag coefficient can be determined by testing. The cylinder is the only shape maintaining the same 6 regardless of flow direction in the x y plane. If the pipe is raised at a constant rate from bottom to top of a turbine passage the measured forces may be integrated to determine the average force. From this calculation the average velocity is calculated using Eqn. 1 and thus the absolute flow rate may be accurately provided.

Select embodiments of the present invention descriptively termed a force beam elevator accurately measure absolute flow within the fluid passageways of hydroelectric generation units. Select embodiments of the present invention may be installed with no permanent modifications to the power plant or its machinery. The well known Winter Kennedy method may be used to determine the water flow rate through the turbine. Specifically this method is carried out by placing a pair of Winter Kennedy WK differential pressure taps in the spiral flow case and a differential pressure transducer placed across these taps generates a signal corresponding to the measured differential pressure. Although the Winter Kennedy method is preferred many others are available and may be used including the Joseph Peck method the calibrated weir method the current meter method the pitot tube method and the like. Within a family of turbines select embodiments of the present invention could be used to calibrate all WK taps for all units. Once properly calibrated the WK s could be used on demand to define absolute flow maximizing efficiency within the individual unit and thus maximizing the efficiency of unit dispatch.

To accurately estimate absolute flow using the above principle consider 1 operation in conditions that are held constant during elevation of the beam ideally a pipe 2 maintenance of structural integrity of the beam under load and vibration 3 accurate measurement of end restraint forces to determine force vectors and 4 delivery and recording of the force measurements. Once recorded the kinetic energy is converted to velocity which defines the flow in a known cross sectional area e.g. that of a turbine intake barrel.

Select embodiments of the present invention 1 are able to operate within gate or stop log slots 2 incorporate synchronized force beam elevators within each draft tube or barrel of a unit 3 are of sufficient weight that the force beam is lowered by gravity alone 4 automatically convert measurements into absolute flow 5 are portable and easily installed in similar units and 6 permit the force beam elevator to be wholly contained below deck and to be installed with existing gantry cranes.

Other considerations used in employing select embodiments of the present invention include 1 the direction of the average force has no significant component in the horizontal z direction parallel to the dam face since the force beam elevator is in a conduit under head 2 since fluid density is a function of temperature a force beam elevator may be equipped with a thermometer to allow for changing density and thus a modification to the weight term w 3 load sensors must be robust accurate and waterproof 4 in select embodiments of the present invention force beams may be neutrally buoyant if conditions warrant 5 boundary conditions are addressed as appropriate 6 computed average velocity is adjusted to address head losses associated with a force beam being within the flow and 7 flow surges result in highly dynamic loadings that necessitate a correction during data reduction. The force beam may be raised either incrementally or at a constant rate through a flow in a confined conduit such as a turbine inlet.

Refer to illustrating three select embodiments of the present invention a different embodiment shown in each of the three complete intake barrels A B C depicted as one would face downstream on the upstream side of a dam. The ends of the force beams are supported by movable frames or trolleys hereafter trolleys that may be equipped with wheels in select embodiments of the present invention. The force beam measures loadings due to water current as the force beam is raised from the bottom to the top of the intake barrels . In select embodiments of the present invention the trolleys are raised by cables mounted to drums turned by the hoist shaft and motor as may be located on a dam s intake deck . In select embodiments of the present invention a data collector and a controller fed by a coax cable from the load cells may be attached to the hoist frame . In select embodiments of the present invention semi circular shafts attached to the ends of each force beam are held rigidly in the trolleys by loading bolts and a section of steel angle . In select embodiments of the present invention between the shaft and the steel angle at each end of the force beam are two load cells each 45 degrees off of vertical and horizontal planes respectively.

The intake barrel A on the reader s right in as may be used in select embodiments of the present invention employs a dry stabilizer beam A as part of the trolley that incorporates the force beam that is positioned via cables running in the existing side slots of the intake barrels A B C. The stabilizer bar A shown in intake barrel A is dry because it never enters the water flow. The configuration of the trolley the stabilizer beam A and the force beam in intake barrel A is operated via cables running in slots in the intake barrel A and powered by a motor the whole configuration A supported by a hoist shaft mounted in a support on the deck . The support shaft and motor may provide motivation to multiple configurations as emplaced in multiple intake barrels on the same dam as shown in for a sample of three intake barrels . In select embodiments of the present invention a data collector may be mounted on the support or otherwise located nearby for collecting data from the sensors load cells on the ends of the force beam . In select embodiments of the present invention a trolley supporting the force beam is supported at its four corners with rubber pneumatic wheels as shown for the embodiments in intake barrels A and C of . The middle intake barrel B depicts a frameless configuration employing cables directly connected from lifting drums to each end of the force beam . In select embodiments of the present invention a third alternative i.e. a wet stabilizer beam C is employed in intake barrel C in a manner similar to that of the dry stabilizer beam A in intake barrel A except that the wet stabilizer beam C will be in the water flow when the trolley is at its lowest positions.

In select embodiments of the present invention the wet stabilizer beam C may be preferred even though one may intuitively believe that a wet stabilizer beam C may yield less precise results due to drag when it is in the water flow. However the head losses attributable to drag on a wet stabilizer beam C are insignificant when compared to the velocity head of the total flow. Also drag forces acting on a wet stabilizer beam C are determinant. This is especially true if the wet stabilizer beam C is the same shape and size as the force beam . The adjustment may be accounted for in the calculations for absolute flow. The advantage of the wet beam design is that it is more stable than a frameless design shown in the intake barrel B while having a minimal profile that allows the entire configuration C to be located below the deck throughout the measurement process. This minimizes interference with deck access and operations.

Refer to an edge view of the intake barrel C taken through of with the water flow direction as shown at the arrow . The end of the force beam is shown without the necessary sensors and mounting devices for clarity. The wet stabilizer beam C as shown in is smaller in cross section than the force beam but need not be as discussed above. The wheels of the trolley also need not be pneumatic as discussed below in describing . Further for select embodiments of the present invention the support may be individualized together with the lifting drums shaft and motor to operate on single intake barrels rather than as shown in operating on multiple intake barrels . However multiple intake barrels serving individual turbines should be measured simultaneously using like configurations of select embodiments of the present invention as well as identical lifting rates to preclude errors due to time lags between measurements that are taken separately at different times in the individual intake barrels. Embodiments of the present invention are readily portable for calibrating the W Ks.

Refer to depicting one configuration of a force beam that may be used with select embodiments of the present invention. The end plate of the force beam has a bearing pin with a flat edge that facilitates pre loading of the force beam using a simple bolt and plate design as discussed below.

Refer to a top view through of describing a specific arrangement for stabilizing a force beam that may be used in select embodiments of the present invention. In select embodiments of the present invention the force beam is stabilized at each of the bearing pins via a bolt thru the trolley that prevents lateral movements. Each bearing pin also has a keeper plate mounted thereto for mounting load cells sensors thereto. In select embodiments of the present invention the force beam is preloaded by a bolt through a mounting plate of the trolley to the bearing pin . For select embodiments of the present invention trolleys for transporting a force beam are custom built for each family of turbine i.e. each type of intake barrel . In select embodiments of the present invention a trolley supports each end of both a force beam and a stabilizer beam and the trolley is totally contained within a gate slot of the intake barrel . In select embodiments of the present invention the trolley equipped with properly inflated pneumatic tires facilitates interference free travel along the gate slot while absorbing surges and vibrations. In select embodiments of the present invention means for assuring proper movement within the gate slots other than pneumatic tires may be employed. In select embodiments of the present invention the tires may be inflated upon installation to create a tight fit of a trolley within a gate slot . In select embodiments of the present invention the force beam is connected to the trolley such that movement of the trolley is constrained in the z direction e.g. parallel to the face of the dam through which water flows and perpendicular to the flow of the water by the force beam . In select embodiments of the present invention a trolley incorporates structural elements e.g. flat plates that secure a loading bolt and load cells .

Refer to an elevation view of the installation of an end of a force beam such as that represented in . Upon insertion of the force beam in the water flow as indicated at the force beam is impacted by the water flow as indicated by the Force F having a larger component in the x direction F than in they direction F . The load cells are pre loaded by the force bolt and the hydraulic loading on the individual load cells is the change in loading that occurs between inflow and outflow conditions. The ratio of the changes in the two load cells defines the direction and magnitude of the summation of the force vectors . In select embodiments of the present invention two load cells and a loading bolt are employed for each end of the force beam . The direction and magnitude of the average resultant force vector acting on the whole force beam is derived by summing the average resultant force vectors acting on each end of the force beam . The absolute flow is thus derived for a single intake barrel and added to the absolute flows derived from any other intake barrels serving the unit. In select embodiments of the present invention measured and recorded loading values are used to determine the instantaneous velocity and direction of the flow through the x y plane. The absolute flow through a turbine is the summation obtained by integrating individual readings of the flows calculated from the loadings on the force beam as it vertically samples the intake barrels serving a turbine.

To determine the flow at a cross section of a turbine s intake barrel the forces acting in the x horizontal direction e.g. perpendicular to the dam face are summed. The total force in the x direction is the total loadings measured by each of the load cells at each end of the force beam multiplied by 0.707 sin cos of 45 respectively of the two resultant forces measured by the load cells respectively minus the pre load of the loading bolt assumed to have been pre loaded along the x axis.

Load calculations may be converted to fluid velocities using information shown in the graph of relating drag force to velocity for a pipe having a one foot diameter such as may be used for the force beam of select embodiments of the present invention. For example the graph of covers the typical range of velocities found in turbine barrel intakes of dams. The graph of was created using a drag and velocity calculator for cylindrical objects in flowing water.

The accuracy of the graph of may be improved by performance tests on a beam such as a pipe with the actual materials and diameter to be used. An example is provided below.

Assume a standard 12 in. diameter pipe for the force beam a span of 28 ft for the intake barrel and a water flow of 10 fps. Using Eqn. 1 0.34 1 28 62.3 10 2 32.2 921 lbs

This loading is trivial when compared to the loading capacity of a 12 in. steel pipe even when dynamic forces are accounted for. In the above example assuming the height of the barrel is 45 ft the velocity head V of the water per second is mass times velocity or 62.4 28 45 10 786 240 lbs sec Thus the head loss associated with a beam being in the flow is about one tenth of one percent of the velocity head per second.

Note that even at the upper end of the velocities seen in intake barrels the load on a beam such as either a force beam or a stabilizer beam is less than 1000 lbs. This allows light weight poly carbonate pipe sections to be used. Further in select embodiments of the present invention small holes may be drilled in the pipe to make the beam neutrally buoyant and able to be easily filled with water and drained as it is moved in and out of the water. As the force beam pipe approaches either the bottom or the top of its travel within the flow the coefficient of drag is indeterminate. As the force beam approaches the bottom of the intake barrel the graph of no longer applies because flows are no longer unrestricted as they try to flow under the force beam . This indeterminate zone need not be measured since flows in this area may be extrapolated using the seventh root law. The same is true for boundary conditions at the top and sides of the intake barrels .

An indeterminate zone occurs within a half diameter of the force beam pipe from the end of its travel. Thus about 2 5 of the area to be surveyed by the force beam in a typical application at a turbine intake barrel of a dam may have an indeterminate velocity. Incremental velocities observed over the remainder of the surveyed area may be used to interpolate the velocities in the indeterminate zones to reduce the margin of error.

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples for use in measuring flows at intake barrels of turbines it may be used for any type of flow measurement or calibration where precision is desired. Thus select embodiments of the present invention may be useful in such diverse applications as measuring flow in open channels of known cross section measuring fluid flow in industrial aerospace mining oil and gas exploration applications and the like. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

