---

title: Sending and releasing pending messages
abstract: Releasing pending messages is provided. An electronic message is received via a network from a sending client device. The electronic message includes a request to place the electronic message in a pending file and an authorization to release data. The electronic message is placed in the pending file and the authorization to release data is stored in a storage device. An authorization is received to release the electronic message from the pending file. Then, it is determined whether the authorization to release the electronic message matches the stored authorization to release data. In response to determining that a match is found, the electronic message is released from the pending file. Then, the released electronic message is sent to a receiving client device via the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407486&OS=08407486&RS=08407486
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08407486
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080312
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to an improved data processing system. More specifically embodiments of the present invention are directed to a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for sending and releasing pending electronic messages.

Today most computers are connected to some type of network. A network allows a computer to share information with other computer systems. The Internet is one example of a computer network.

There is no doubt that the Internet has changed the way people and businesses communicate. For many people and businesses electronic mail e mail has virtually replaced traditional letters and even telephone calls as the preferred choice of correspondence. Every day billions of e mail messages are sent on the Internet. E mail has been the most rapidly adopted form of communication ever known. In less than two decades it has gone from obscurity to mainstream dominance.

In the fast paced world of today sometimes even the rapid response of e mail is not fast enough. For that reason instant messaging IM has gained popularity. IM may be implemented in various ways but in general it supports the sending and receiving of instant messages to and from other users. Instant messages are correspondence that appears on a computer display of a recipient more or less instantly after being sent. This is opposed to the more traditional e mail messages which typically are logged in the system until a recipient wishes to view them.

However when sending a context sensitive message via either e mail or IM the sender may want the message to be viewed only after the sender authorizes release of the message. The sender may for example authorize release of the message only after the sender is certain that the receiver understands the context of the message prior to the receiver reading the message. Therefore it would be beneficial to have a computer implemented method system and computer usable program code for sending and releasing pending context sensitive electronic messages.

The illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for releasing pending messages. An electronic message is received via a network from a sending client device. The electronic message includes a request to place the electronic message in a pending file and an authorization to release data. The electronic message is placed in the pending file and the authorization to release data is stored in a storage device. An authorization is received to release the electronic message from the pending file. Then it is determined whether the authorization to release the electronic message matches the stored authorization to release data. In response to determining that a match is found the electronic message is released from the pending file. Then the released electronic message is sent to a receiving client device via the network.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage unit . Server and server may represent servers that provide electronic messaging services for network . In addition server and server may represent a network of computers and other devices required to provide the electronic messaging services.

Storage represents any type of storage device that is capable of storing data in a structured or unstructured format. Also storage may represent a plurality of storage units coupled to network . Storage may for example be a database that stores user customer data contact lists electronic messages and authorization data such as passwords biometric data radio frequency identification RFID data and bar code data.

Further client devices and also connect to network . Client devices and may be for example personal computers laptop computers handheld computers personal digital assistants PDAs cellular telephones gaming devices or any combination thereof. Client devices and are clients to server and or server in this example. Server and server may provide data such as boot files operating system images and applications to client devices and . Moreover network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown.

Of course network data processing system may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet. Also is should be noted that is only intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for different illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a data processing system such as server or client device in in which computer usable program code or instructions implementing processes of illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be located. In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory unit persistent storage unit communications unit input output I O unit display unit and scanner reader unit .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory unit . Processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory unit in these examples may be for example a random access memory RAM or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage unit may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example persistent storage unit may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage unit may be a disk drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage unit also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage unit . In addition persistent storage unit may represent a plurality of persistent storage units.

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices such as for example server and client device in . In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output unit may provide a connection for user input through an alphanumeric keypad. Display unit provides a mechanism to display information to a user of data processing system .

Scanner reader may for example be a biometric scanner RFID reader or a bar code scanner. Data processing system uses scanner reader unit to obtain authorization data. The authorization data may for example be used to confirm user identity for authorizing the release of context sensitive electronic messages from a pending file. A biometric scanner may be used to obtain biometric information such as for example signature data retina data facial data fingerprint data voice data or any combination thereof from a user or sender of an electronic message. The RFID reader may be used to obtain security information from an RFID tag embedded in for example a badge or a letter. The bar code scanner may be used to obtain security information from a badge or card imprinted with a bar code.

Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on persistent storage unit . The operating system may for example be a Linux operating system. An application may for example be electronic messaging software.

The instructions for the operating system and applications or programs may be loaded into memory unit for execution by processor unit . The processes of different embodiments of the present invention may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory unit . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in different illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer readable media such as memory unit or persistent storage unit .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be in a tangible form such as for example an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage unit for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage unit . In a tangible form computer readable media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . The tangible form of computer readable media is also referred to as computer recordable storage media.

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system from computer readable media through a communications link to communications unit and or through a connection to input output unit . The communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples.

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in may be varied from the illustrative examples shown.

For example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example memory unit or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub which may be present in communications fabric .

Illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method system and computer usable program code for sending and releasing pending context sensitive electronic messages. A messaging server receives a context sensitive electronic message via a network from a sending client device. The electronic message which may be an e mail or an instant message includes a request to place the electronic message in a pending file and authorization to release data.

The messaging server places the electronic message in the pending file and stores the authorization to release data in a storage device such as a database. Afterward the messaging server receives an authorization from the message sender to release the electronic message from the pending file. Then the messaging server compares the received authorization to release the electronic message with the stored authorization to release data.

If the messaging server determines that a match is found between the received authorization and the stored authorization to release data then the messaging server releases the electronic message from the pending file and sends the released electronic message to a receiving client device via the network. If the messaging server determines that a match is not found the messaging server does not release the electronic message for transmission and sends a notification message to the sender of the electronic message that the authorization was invalid.

Thus illustrative embodiments of the present invention allow a sender of an electronic message which is context sensitive to send the message to one or more recipients with restrictions. In other words the message is placed in a pending state before being sent to the one or more recipients. Once the sender authenticates the message the message is released for transmission.

The message sender composes the context sensitive electronic message and then sends it to the messaging server with a request to place the message in pending . Illustrative embodiments of the present invention provide several authorization options to release the pending message. For example the sender may release the message from the pending file in a messaging service server by providing the appropriate authorization data such as biometric data RFID data bar code data and or a password. In addition the sender may authorize the release of the electronic message by making a telephone call to or from a specified telephone number and inputting a specific voice and or keypad command.

In an alternative illustrative embodiment of the present invention only a specified individual such as a manager or human resource representative may authorize the release of the message. Alternatively each of a plurality of individuals such as a general manager department manager direct supervisor and human resource representative must separately authorize the release of the message to the intended recipient s prior to the message being released for transmission.

Further illustrative embodiments of the present invention provide the ability to expire the message. In other words the message may be destroyed if the message is not released after a configurable predetermined period of time elapses. Configurable means that the message sender has the option to determine the period of time. The predetermined period of time may for example be one hour one day one week or one month. However it should be noted that any period of time may be defined by the user. Alternatively a default period of time may be used if the user does not select one.

In another alternative embodiment of the present invention the messaging service server may send a notification to the receiving client device that contains instruction on how the recipient may receive the released message. For example if the message is to be released by a telephone call then the notification message may instruct the recipient s that the pending message may be received after calling a specified telephone number such as 1 888 555 5555 or the pending message may be received after calling from a specified number such as 555 555 5555. Also the recipient s after calling the specified telephone number may be required to listen to a pre recorded message that explains the context of the electronic message. Furthermore the recipient s may be instructed to input one or more specific voice and or keypad commands to acknowledge that the context of the electronic message was understood by the recipient s prior to receiving the electronic message. Moreover the messaging service server may record this acknowledgement by the recipient s for future reference by the message sender. The emphasis in this illustrative embodiment of the present invention is the notification of the intended recipient s about what action needs to be taken in order to receive the message.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating components used in managing electronic messages is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. Messaging system includes messaging client messaging client messaging client messaging server process and database . However it should be noted that is only meant as an exemplary illustration and is not intended as a restriction on illustrative embodiments of the present invention. In other words messaging system may include more or fewer components such as servers clients databases and other devices as needed.

Messaging clients and may for example be client devices and in . In addition messaging clients and may for example be implemented in data processing system in . Also messaging clients and may for example be computers PDAs cellular telephones or gaming devices.

In this illustrative example a user utilizing messaging client may send or exchange electronic messages over a network with other users using messaging clients and . The exchange of electronic messages may for example be via e mail IM broadcast messaging or any other synchronous or asynchronous messaging system that may be utilized by illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

Further the exchange of electronic messages within messaging system is facilitated through messaging server process . Messaging server process may for example be server in . Messaging server process may store context sensitive electronic messages in a pending file if requested to do so. Moreover messaging server process may store authentication data associated with each of the context sensitive electronic messages. Messaging server process may store the pending file and the authentication data in for example database . Database may for example be storage in .

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating components of a messaging client is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. Messaging client may for example be messaging client in . Messaging client includes graphical user interface GUI messaging application application programming interface API and operating system OS .

A user of messaging client utilizes GUI to interact with the applications residing in messaging client such as messaging application . The user utilizes messaging application to connect to and access a messaging server such as messaging server process in via a network. Messaging application may for example be any IM or e mail software that may be utilized by illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

API allows the user of messaging client which may be an individual or a software routine to invoke system capabilities using a standard consistent interface without concern for how the particular functionality is implemented. Messaging application may for example run on OS . OS is utilized to provide high level functionality to the user and to other software. OS and messaging application may employ user input devices in order to obtain input from the user. User input devices may for example be used to set user preferences.

A processor such as processor unit in performs the basic operations in messaging client . The processor may for example display information on GUI . GUI has a plurality of picture elements collectively referred to as a screen which may define the appearance of a user interface environment displayed on GUI . GUI screen contents and therefore the appearance of the user interface environment may be controlled or altered by messaging application or OS either individually or in combination.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a messaging application is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. The components shown in may for example be found in messaging application in . Also these components may for example be implemented in data processing system in .

Messaging application processes electronic messages such as message . As messaging application receives these electronic messages messaging application displays these received messages in dialog window . Additionally dialog window provides an interface for a user to input text in order to draft and send messages to other users.

Messaging application presents contact and preference window to provide the user with a contact list of user names as well as other information. Contact and preference window also provides an interface to allow the user to set different preferences. For example the user may set passwords required to authorize the release of context sensitive electronic messages in a pending file. Alternatively the user may set a preference to use biometric data RFID data or bar code data to authorize the release of pending electronic messages. Further the user may use contact and preference window to set other preferences such as sending alert notifications to the message sender and or message recipient regarding message delivery.

In addition contact and preference window stores in contact list a list of names presented by contact and preference window in these examples. The user may edit contact list by adding to or delete from contact list other users. Contact list is utilized for presenting the list of names within contact and preference window .

With reference now to an exemplary illustration of a system for sending and releasing pending electronic messages is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. Network data processing system may for example be network data processing system in . Network data processing system is a network of data processing systems that a user may use to send context sensitive electronic messages to a pending file and then authorize the release of those pending messages for transmission to the intended recipients.

Network data processing system includes sending client device server device and receiving client device . A user utilizes sending client device to create a context sensitive electronic message such as message by using a messaging application such as messaging application in . Message may for example be an e mail an instant message a broadcast message or any other type of synchronous or asynchronous form of electronic message.

Message includes request to place in pending and authorization to release data . The messaging application may for example locate request to place in pending and authorization to release data in a header of an e mail message. However illustrative embodiments of the present invention are not limited to such. Illustrative embodiments may insert request to place in pending and authorization to release data in any portion of message that is appropriate for the system of electronic transmission of message . Alternatively illustrative embodiments of the present invention may transmit request to place in pending and authorization to release data separately.

Request to place in pending is a request to place message in a pending file. This pending file is a memory location in a storage device such as memory unit or persistent storage unit in . The pending file may be located in a server such as server device or in a client such as sending client device .

Authorization to release data is data required to release message from the pending file. Authorization to release data may for example be a password biometric data such as a fingerprint RFID data or bar code data. Authorization to release data may for example be obtained from a message sender via a keyboard a keypad a mouse a microphone a cell phone a scanner reader unit such as scanner reader unit in or any combination thereof.

Server device is a messaging service server. Server device receives message from sending client device . Because message includes request to place in pending server device places message in a pending file. Alternatively server device may store message in a separate storage device such as storage in . In addition server device stores authorization to release data .

The intended recipient s of message may use receiving client device to receive the pending context sensitive electronic message from server device . However authorization to release message must first be received by server device prior to the release of message from the pending file. Authorization to release message may for example be sent from receiving client device sending client device or from any other device connected to network data processing system . Authorization to release message includes the required authorization data to release message from pending.

Subsequent to receiving authorization to release message and confirming that the authorization data contained in authorization to release message is the correct or valid authorization for message server device releases message for transmission and sends released pending message to receiving client device . Released pending message is message which has been released for transmission.

However it should be noted that in an alternative illustrative embodiment of the present invention server device may send a notification to receiving client device with specific instructions on how to receive released pending message . In other words server device does not immediately send released pending message to receiving client device until after the intended recipient s successfully complete the instructions contained within the notification message. Moreover message may be encrypted with an encryption key that requires the decryption key to be provided to receiving client device prior to viewing message . Also it should be noted that server device may destroy message or released pending message if the intended recipient s do not receive the message prior to the passage of a configurable period of time such as for example twenty four hours.

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for receiving and releasing pending electronic messages is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. The process depicted in may be implemented for example in a server such as server device in .

The process begins when the server receives a message which includes a request to place the message in a pending file and authorization to release message data from a client such as sending client device in process block . The message which includes the request to place the message in pending and the authorization to release message data may for example be message that includes request to place in pending and authorization to release data in .

After receiving the message in process block the server places the message in a pending file process block and stores the authorization to release message data process block . Subsequently the server receives an authorization to release the message from the pending file such as authorization to release message in process block . Then the server compares the received authorization data with the stored authorization to release message data process block .

The server then makes a determination as to whether a match is found between the received authorization data and the stored authorization to release message data process block . If a match is not found no output of process block then the server does not release the pending message for transmission process block and the server sends an appropriate notification to the sender that the authentication data was invalid process block . The process terminates thereafter.

If a match is found yes output of process block then the server sends a notification to a receiving client such as receiving client device in with instruction on how to receive the released pending message process block . Then the server makes a determination as to whether the instructions contained in the notification were successfully completed process block . If the instructions are not successfully completed no output of process block then the process returns to process blocks and where the server does not release the pending message and sends an appropriate message to the intended recipient s that the instructions were not successfully completed.

If the instructions are successfully completed yes output of process block then the server makes a determination as to whether a configurable period of time has elapsed process block . If the configurable period of time has elapsed yes output of process block then the server destroys the pending message process block . The process terminates thereafter.

If the configurable period of time has not elapsed no output of process block then the server releases the pending message for transmission process block . Afterward the server sends the released pending message to the receiving client device process block . The process terminates thereafter. It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that even though the process blocks are shown in a sequential order illustrative embodiments of the present invention are not restricted to such. In other words one or more process blocks may occur concurrently with one or more other process blocks.

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for sending a context sensitive electronic message to a pending file is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. The process depicted in may be implemented for example in a client such as sending client device in .

The process begins when the client receives an input to open a messaging application such as messaging application in process block . Then the client opens the messaging application process block . Subsequently the messaging application receives message input along with a request to place the message in a pending file and authorization to release message data process block .

Afterward the client sends the message to a server such as server device in along with the request to place the message in the pending file and the authorization to release message data in response to a user input to send the message process block . Subsequently the client receives an input to close the messaging application process block . Then the client closes the messaging application process block . The process terminates thereafter.

Thus illustrative embodiments of the present invention provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for sending and releasing context sensitive pending messages. Illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be implemented entirely in hardware entirely in software or using a combination of both hardware and software elements. In one embodiment the invention is implemented in software including but not being limited to firmware resident software microcode or the like.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical or semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a communication medium e.g. a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

