---

title: Reception of uplink data from sonobuoys
abstract: A method for improving the bit error rate in digital transmissions of sonobuoy sensor data from a sonobuoy to a receiver platform includes computing a send checksum on a frame of sonobuoy sensor data, copying the frame of data and checksum into a plurality of subframes, delaying one of the plurality of subframes for a predetermined period, multiplexing the delayed subframe with the plurality of subframes into a transmit frame; and transmitting the transmit frame. The invention is particularly suited to improving the reception of legacy sonobuoy receivers in littoral waters where radio frequency interference and signal propagation is a severe problem.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07986585&OS=07986585&RS=07986585
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07986585
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081030
---
The present invention relates generally to sonar systems and more particularly to a system and method for improved reception of uplink data from sonobuoys by sonobuoy receiving systems.

The United States Navy maintains a superior global Anti Submarine Warfare ASW capability with the ability to detect localize identify and track potentially hostile submarines. On a typical ASW mission a number of expendable sonobuoys are deployed from an aircraft. The Sonobuoys generally provide both an acoustical signal source and a reception capability for underwater acoustic signals of interest. Parameters affecting acoustic signals for example depth water temperature and salinity may also be detected. This data is transmitted on uplink channels to monitoring units that process the signals for target analysis classification and recording for replay and post event analysis. Established sonobuoy tactics allow for short and long range detection of surface ships and submarines resulting in the prosecution of identified hostile targets.

Presently a large number of ASW aircraft use sonobuoy receivers that have been in service for a number of years for example the AN ARR 78 and modifications as well as the ARR 78 ARR 84 ARR 78 v3. ARR 89 and modifications of those units collectively referred to herein as legacy sonobuoy receivers. The legacy sonobuoy receivers contain twenty or four receiver modules depending on the model each capable of accepting operating channels 1 99 those sonobuoy channels now in use and those being developed for future use in the VHF band from 136 to 173.5 megahertz MHz . The receiver modules may be tuned to any one of the sonobuoy operating channels. The output from the legacy sonobuoy receivers is fed to a data demultiplexer which is implemented on a personal computer referred to as a Low Cost Advanced Processor LCAP and which transforms the receiver frequency shift keyed FSK output to a digital stream that can be processed with a conventional computer. The LCAP output is passed to an AN UYS 1 or AN UYS 1A single advanced signal processor SASP system. The SASP system includes a spectrum analyzer and programmable signal processor that extracts and conditions acoustic sonobuoy data to determine frequency amplitude bearing Doppler range and other characteristics for detection and tracking of underwater targets.

While the legacy sonobuoy receivers are highly reliable they have certain inherent limitations that restrict the insertion of new technology. In particular reception of FSK modulated digital transmissions from recently developed sonobuoys for example the AN SSQ 101 and AN SSQ 110 referred to herein as digital sonobuoys have presented new challenges. Although the legacy sonobuoy receivers are able to demodulate signals from the digital sonobuoys and can do so at the highest data rate of 256 kbps they cannot perform any operations to reduce the bit error rate BER . Systems that use digital sonobuoys require a BER of 10 1 error in 100 Kbits or better.

In traditional deep water ASW operations radio frequency interference RFI is not usually significant and the BER requirements of the new sonobuoy systems can generally be achieved with existing transmission schemes and legacy sonobuoy receivers. However in recent years naval operations have increased in littoral waters where RFI from both land based and small boat sources is much more problematic. When RFI occurs in a digital sonobuoy uplink channel that is being monitored by an aircraft the data becomes unusable because of the increased BER caused by RFI and signal propagation problems. At present forty seven wideband sonobuoy channels are available for digital sonobuoys operating at 256 kbps. Frequently RFI in littoral waters is so severe that only a small number of channels are available for use. Thus the aircraft cannot complete its mission.

Although a number of methods exist to mitigate RFI including for example narrowband filtering and spatial interference nulling these techniques are not easily integrated with systems incorporating legacy sonobuoy receivers. Narrowband notch filtering could be provided by the addition of an external filter unit. However a narrowband filter would be expensive require installation space add weight and power requirements to the aircraft and be difficult to interface properly with the legacy sonobuoy receivers. Likewise spatial filtering would require one or more additional external antennas to be added to the aircraft as well as an external device and interface for the receiver which would also require installation space and add weight and power requirements to the aircraft. While RFI might also be reduced by transmitting more power this option is impractical because it would add weight size and power requirements to the sonobuoys. Error control coding ECC is also impractical because it can not be implemented using legacy sonobuoy receivers within the constraints of existing channel capacity.

What is needed is a practical reliable and inexpensive way to improve the BER of systems incorporating legacy sonobuoy receivers so that data fidelity requirements of newly developed digital sonobuoys can be met under a wide variety of operating conditions. Embodiments according to the present invention are directed to solving this need.

In general in one aspect an embodiment of a method for improving the bit error rate in digital transmissions of sonobuoy sensor data from a sonobuoy to a receiver platform includes computing a send checksum on a frame of sonobuoy sensor data copying the frame of data and checksum into a plurality of subframes delaying one of the plurality of subframes for a predetermined period multiplexing the delayed subframe with the plurality of subframes into a transmit frame and transmitting the transmit frame. In another aspect an embodiment of a method for improving the bit error rate in digital transmissions of sonobuoy sensor data from a sonobuoy to a receiver platform includes selecting the predetermined period to be longer than an expected duration of an ocean wave period. In another aspect an embodiment of a method for improving the bit error rate in digital transmissions of sonobuoy sensor data from a sonobuoy to a receiver platform includes receiving the transmit frame at a legacy sonobuoy receiver demultiplexing the transmit frame into a plurality of subframes computing received checksums for the plurality of subframes and comparing the received checksums with the send checksum to determine whether data in either or both subframes is corrupt.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which are a part of this patent disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

In order to address the BER problem for legacy sonobuoy receiver systems it is important to understand the causes that contribute to RFI and signal propagation problems in such systems. Under realistic at sea conditions in littoral waters the required BER is often not realized because of various factors including wave washover multipath and RFI from overmodulated or mistuned marine communications and or land based signal sources.

Embodiments according to the present invention employ a redundant data transmission RDT technique to overcome RFI and signal propagation problems with a minimum of complexity and in a system that is transparent to legacy sonobuoy receiver systems. Essentially in one example RDT reduces sonobuoy communication channel errors by transmitting the sensor data twice with a selected time delay between the two transmissions. The time delay is predetermined to be just long enough to exceed the expected duration of the RFI and or the ocean wave period.

The DAQ device employed in this embodiment is built to a single slot PCI form factor. The DAQ performs the function of input signal conditioner for all digital sonobuoy uplink types in the LCAP. The primary function of the DAQ is to transform a digital bipolar voltage signal from the radio receiver into a digital data stream that can be processed with a computer. The DAQ outputs the digitized data to the PC over a Universal Serial Bus USB . The PC receives the digital data from the DAQ and performs the RDT processing. In this embodiment the RDT algorithm is implemented as a C language computer program that runs on the LCAP PC. The RDT Processing runs in real time on the dual Pentium Processors.

To simplify this discussion data received by sonobuoy receiver system is treated as having no overhead i.e. no Barker codes headers etc. However it is to be understood that transmitted data typically includes overhead for synchronization and formatting. Using empirical observations the statistical distribution of data dropouts was measured. Using these distributions it was determined that approximately a 1.6 sec. delay would be sufficient to guarantee that most but not all of the dropouts could be repaired by providing an appropriately delayed second transmission of the data sample. The delay represents a compromise between performance and storage capacity available in the sonobuoy.

The RDT concept in embodiments according to the present invention depends on the expectation that one of the two redundant data sets will have data that is correct. In order to determine whether a data set is correct an absolute reference is generated in the sonobuoy prior to transmission to the aircraft. A technique is needed to provide information to determine which of the data samples may be corrupted and to transmit this information to the aircraft while retaining compatibility with the legacy sonobuoy receivers and at the same time fitting concurrently into the standard data communications format. The method that was developed is called a sensor check sum SCS . The SCS involves computing a value based on the data for each sample and appending that value or checksum to the data transmitted to the aircraft. Upon receipt of the data in the aircraft a receive checksum RCS is computed for each data sample sent by the sonobuoy. The data samples in which the RCS is equal to the SCS are assumed correct. This processing is performed in data demultiplexer and acquisition stage of ASW acoustic sonobuoy receiver system .

An embodiment of receiver RDT processing according to the present invention is shown in . The signals transmitted from sonobuoy sensor system are received by an ASW acoustic sonobuoy receiver system . A receiver output frame from a legacy sonobuoy receiver not illustrated in is demultiplexed in block into an A subframe and B subframe . A subframe is delayed by an N length FIFO in block to align it in time with B subframe . The FIFO in block is implemented in software but may be implemented in hardware in alternative embodiments. A receive checksum RCS is computed on the A and B subframes in checksum blocks and respectively. The RCS s and SCS s are compared for the A and B subframes respectively in decision blocks and . If the A subframe RCS matches the A subframe SCS the A subframe is considered correct and may be passed on for processing. If however the A subframe RCS does not match the A subframe CSC but the RCS and CSC of the B subframe do match then the B subframe is passed on for processing. If neither the A nor the B checksums match the sensor checksums the frame is marked corrupt and the A subframe is arbitrarily passed on. The net result of RDT processing according to the present invention is that a stream of 128 kbps is passed on to acoustic processor .

As has been shown embodiments according to the present invention employ a redundant data transmission RDT technique to overcome RFI and signal propagation problems with a minimum of complexity and in a system that is transparent to legacy sonobuoy receivers. The method is elegant simple highly effective and designed to be fully operable within the limited capabilities of legacy sonobuoy receivers. While the method is particularly suited to use with such legacy sonobuoy receivers it may also be used with new sonobuoy receivers. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

