---

title: Method for providing node targeted content in an addressable network
abstract: Advertising, entertainment or other content is targeted to a particular node of an addressable network based on user information. Such addressable networks may include the Internet, certain television networks or other networks where content can be addressed to specific nodes. The user information may include financial information, product or service preference information, and user contact information regarding a user of the targeted node. In one implementation, targeted content is presented during waiting time of an Internet session. The corresponding process involves monitoring () a user node to identify a website access request, accessing () a previously stored message said, selecting () a message from the message set and displaying or playing back () the selected message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08965924&OS=08965924&RS=08965924
owner: Panalogin LLC
number: 08965924
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080729
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 615 219 filed Jul. 7 2003 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 451 390 filed Nov. 30 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 615 251 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 876 765 filed Jun. 16 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 996 007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 451 390 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 128 915 filed Aug. 4 1998 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 595 837 filed Feb. 2 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 790 785 which in turn claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 008 736 filed Dec. 11 1995 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates in general to interactive communication networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks generically the Internet and in particular to providing user targeted content including content initially displayed or otherwise presented during interval and or dead time waiting time of an Internet session e.g. during processing time associated with the exchange of information between the Internet content providers and Internet content users.

In recent years public participation in the Internet has expanded at a rate that has at times surprised industry analysts and service providers. This expansion has not escaped the attention of the business community who is actively searching for ways to capitalize on this medium of ever increasing importance. In the attempt to quickly respond to this phenomenon the business community and its promotional and advertising consultants have sometimes analogized the Internet to more familiar media in order to analyze business opportunities and apply accumulated experience and wisdom to the unfamiliar and poorly understood new medium. In this regard some have viewed the Internet as a form of electronic publishing and have focused on printed media as an instructive business paradigm. Others focusing on the dynamic voice and image potential of Internet communications have viewed broadcast media as the most instructive source of business experience.

A result of this current tendency to analyze business opportunities on the Internet in view of experiences with more familiar media is that initial advertising efforts on the Internet have closely resembled traditional advertisements in appearance format and function. Among the most common Internet advertisements are so called banner advertisements. These advertisements typically appear in high traffic areas such as the home page of a browser search engine or website and appear to the user as an area or banner occupying a portion of the monitor working area or graphical desktop. These banners are typically designed much like advertisements in the printed media using well established principles intended to draw attention away from the primary content to the banner and maximize public response. Others have proposed video or audiovisual commercials in the television style. Such commercials as in television would interrupt and be interspersed with the flow of information over the Internet.

Such approaches have not been fully effective. The television style advertisement proposals have met great resistance and in general have not been implemented by wary service providers. Banner advertisements have also been quite limited in effectiveness. In either case although traditional demographic projections have sometimes been used to target classes of consumers e.g. advertisements for investment services on business information sites advertisements are often not of interest to specific Internet users and response rates are low. As a result an exaggerated but common lament in the business community today is that nobody is making money by advertising on the Internet.

The present invention is based in part on a recognition that the Internet as a medium is intrinsically different from traditional media in ways that demand new business approaches. In particular conventional advertising techniques largely ignore the interactive basis of the Internet and are therefore subject to certain pitfalls and or fail to take advantage of certain opportunities of the interactive environment. Examples of business factors peculiar to this interactive environment include the following 

users who select to participate in the Internet medium tend to be interested in retaining control over their Internet sessions and therefore often ignore and even resent advertisements that are pushed onto their desktops and interrupt their sessions or intrude on their desktop areas 

Although attempts have been made with some success to convert the Internet medium to a push medium content is not typically broadcast over the Internet but rather is usually pulled down or retrieved by identifiable users and

the interactive nature of Internet communications results in waiting times associated with data transmission where the user may be more readily engaged in a manner that is unobtrusive.

These and other factors of the interactive environment are an important basis of the present invention. In particular the ability to specifically direct advertisements and other content including entertainment to users based on user information is an important advantage of the present invention.

According to one aspect of the present invention selected messages are provided at a user node that are initiated during a waiting time of an Internet session. The messages can be for example promotional or advertising content product information a public service announcement or other messages of possible interest to the user. The associated process involves providing a selection of messages monitoring a user node during an Internet session to identify a website access request selecting a message from the selection of messages and displaying the message at the user node during a waiting time related to the website access request. The waiting time relates to a time interval during which the user node communicates with a server of the requested site and associated set up periods. Preferably the waiting time during which messages are displayed fall within the time period beginning when the user selects a site and ending upon initiation of site display on the user s desktop. The selection of messages is preferably provided by storing the selection at the user node e.g. on the user s hard drive or in cache in a local area network of the user or otherwise in storage accessible by the user without Internet communication. This selection is stored for example prior to an Internet session or as an explicit or background function of a browser service or searching engine during an Internet session. A selection may be stored only for use during a particular session or may be saved for use in subsequent sessions.

The website access request can be identified in a variety of ways. For example operating system messages may be monitored to identify a mouse down message having desktop coordinates corresponding to a hot link area of the desktop. Keyboard messages may be monitored to identify entry of a URL address or the like. Alternatively protocol communications such as TCP IP or HTTP communications of the browser may be monitored to identify a header message associated with a site access request. Upon identifying such an access request a message can be selected and played at the user node. The message may be selected automatically by logic implementing the process of the present invention or the user may be allowed to select from message choices e.g. displayed in a menu or graphically presented in the format of a room or gallery through which the user may peruse.

According to another aspect of the present invention waiting time messages are terminated at the end of the waiting time so as to minimize Internet session intrusion. The associated process involves providing a waiting time message such as described above monitoring communications relating to loading of a requested website to identify a selected status relative to the loading and terminating playback of the waiting time message based on the identified status. In one implementation the monitored communications are protocol or other communications between a browser and a server of the selected website. Alternatively operation of the browser may be monitored to obtain an indication relating to loading status. As a further alternative operating system messages may be monitored relative to website display status. Playback of the waiting time messages can be terminated for example upon receiving an indication that a website page is ready for preliminary intermediate or complete display. In this regard the user can preferably set the message program so that messages terminate when loading reaches a selected level e.g. 25 50 or 100 complete.

According to another aspect of the present invention waiting time or other messages are selected based on user information. Preferably at least a portion of such user information is obtained by voluntary participation of the user. Credit towards free Internet access time or other value may be provided as an incentive to and reward for user participation. For example the user may provide information relative to the demographics psycho graphics product interests and lifestyle of the user upon registering to participate in a waiting time message program. Such information may have already been made available by the user at a separate registration site. Alternatively information regarding the user may be obtained based on a site access request a history of Internet usage or other information that may be derived by monitoring the user node. Additionally stored user information may be continuously or periodically updated information and messages may be added and or deleted based on a learning process implemented by intelligent code based on Internet usage patterns or the like. Such user information can be employed to tailor the selected waiting time messages to the user s likely interests thereby enhancing user engagement and enjoyment as well as improving advertisement response rates.

The user information may be obtained at least in part from a data store including a repository of user information such as a registration site or other user information site or a user information database maintained on the user node. In one implementation the user information is obtained by accessing a registration information processing system for the World Wide Web that substantially automates the user registration process at websites. The registration system includes a World Wide Web registration website wherein a user accessing the World Wide Web can utilize this website as a repository for registration information so that the user can request this registration information to be transmitted substantially automatically to another website to which the user desires to register. The registration information processing system has a first embodiment using a first system architecture wherein a user need not have any modules specific to the present invention loaded on his her World Wide Web client node. In this embodiment once the user has provided registration information to the registration website when the user subsequently requests to register at a new website cooperating with the registration process then the user provides this new website with a user ID and optionally password for the registration website together with an indication that any further information may be obtained from the registration website. The new website subsequently is able to automatically retrieve the user s registration information from the registration website and register the user at the new website. In the context of the present invention logic resident on the user s node or at a separate website associated with selecting and downloading messages for playback during Internet session waiting time or otherwise during an Internet session or other network use can access the registration site to obtain user information for specifically directing messages of interest to the user based on the user information.

In a second embodiment of the registration information processing system having a second architecture World Wide Web client nodes have registration modules loaded on them so that these nodes may interact with the registration website for providing user registration information to cooperating websites to which the user requests to register. In this second embodiment the user s registration information is stored both locally on the user s client node and at the registration website the website being used as a backup. Thus when the user desires to register at a new website or in the context of the present invention when logic associated with selecting and or downloading messages is used to access user information on the registration site the user s registration information is provided from the registration module residing on the user s client node.

In another implementation user information is obtained from a database used to store user information for dissemination to websites for purposes other than site registration. Such user information may include any of various types of information that are provided or determined at least in part by the user. Examples include user contact information such as a name billing or residence address URL or phone number financial information such as a credit card number or bank account number service or product information useful in shopping for or purchasing airline tickets hotel rooms books music clothing etc. personal interest information for identifying commercial or informational websites of likely interest to the user personal records such as medical records and investment information e.g. purchases when purchased prices ticker symbols numbers of shares etc. that may be transmitted to relevant web sties from time to time and other demographic or personal information. This implementation can use architectures as described above involving storage of the information at the user node and or another node a dedicated repository site or any other site where the information or a portion thereof has been transmitted and may involve user identifiers and passwords as described above. The corresponding system involves establishing a data store for storing user information including information determined at least in part by the user that the user desires to selectively disseminate to other nodes of the network establishing rules regarding dissemination of the user information from the data store whereby the user information is disseminated based on a release thereof by the user receiving a request to transmit at least a portion of the stored user information to a target website making a transmission determination relative to said request based on the established rules and selectively transmitting the user information portion to the target website depending on the transmission determination. The rules may specify for example that the user information may only be released in response to a user password or other code of user thereby allowing the user to regulate access to the user information. In the context of the present invention the user information can be accessed by logic resident on the user node a dedicated user information site or another site for selecting and downloading messages so as to better direct such messages based on knowledge of the user. It will be appreciated that the use of such user information to direct messages is not limited to conventional Internet sessions but may also be employed in the context of cable television WebTV and other contexts involving user addressable content.

According to yet another aspect of the present invention waiting time messages are selected at least in part on the basis of the anticipated duration of the waiting time. It will be appreciated that the length of the waiting time will vary depending upon inter alia the speed of the website server the amount of information to be loaded the congestion of the Internet and the associated configuration of the path from the website to the user node the nature and bandwidth of the legs of the communication path between the server and the user node the communications network selected the speed of the user node processor and the operating parameters of the browser or other services involved in server user communications. Some or all of these factors may be taken into account in estimating waiting time. A waiting time message or messages are preferably selected based on anticipated waiting time to increase message effectiveness and user enjoyment. For example a short message may be displayed or played where the waiting time is expected to be of short duration and a room or gallery of messages may be made available in the case of a longer waiting period.

The present invention thus provides advertising or other content of likely interest to the user in an unobtrusive manner. It is believed that such content will more readily engage and entertain users and therefore will be more effective. Moreover such content will not interrupt or distract from Internet sessions can be tailored to the user s interests and may inure to the user s benefit and therefore should be more acceptable to users and Internet service providers.

In the following description the invention is set forth with respect to certain illustrative processes for providing selected waiting time messages in connection with Internet sessions. An exemplary communications network in which the present invention may be implemented is described first. Thereafter illustrative processes of the present invention will be described in the context of the communications network. Finally the operation and architecture of certain registration and other sites that provide user information useful to direct messages to particular users are described in detail.

It will be appreciated that specific examples are included in the following description for purposes of clarity but various details can be changed within the scope of the present invention. For example although the invention is described in connection with an Internet application various aspects of the invention are more broadly applicable to other types of user addressable networks i.e. networks where messages can be specifically addressed to particular network users. In this regard some cable television networks have such functionality to permit for example selective pay per view programming distribution. Moreover with the advent of WebTV and other technology the distinctions between voice video and data networks are becoming blurred. In addition certain aspects of the invention such as targeting messages based on user information are not limited to Internet waiting time but may be used to target conventional Internet or television advertising programming or other content.

Referring to a communications network in which the present invention may be implemented is generally identified by the reference numeral . The network includes a user node a selected website and a browser that communicate via the Internet . The selected website may be any website associated with the Internet . The browser website may be the site of any suitable browser service such as Netscape Navigator by Netscape Communications Inc. Internet Explorer by Microsoft Corporation or the like. As will be appreciated the browser service associated with browser site may be used to directly access selected website e.g. by entering the website s URL or a search engine may be used to identify and access the selected website e.g. ALTAVISTA YAHOO LYCOS INFOSEEK EXCITE etc.

As is well known the Internet is composed of a variety of network components including packet switched network systems high speed dedicated lines 56 64 kbps lines etc. The user node is connected to the browser website and the selected website via a virtual circuit within the Internet . That is the Internet may include a preferred route for making such connections but such routes can be dynamically reconfigured depending on operating conditions such as Internet traffic and the bandwidth of particular legs of the route. Such reconfiguring may be initiated for example if waiting queues associated with particular packet switched network systems are full.

The user node may be a single computer a local area network or other arrangement of computers that communicate without accessing the Internet. In the illustrated embodiment the user node includes for purposes of illustration four users . For the present purposes only user one is illustrated in detail. As shown user one is a computer system including input output I O components a central processing unit CPU a monitor and computer memory interconnected by way of data bus . The I O components may include for example a mouse keyboard and or similar user interface devices. User one is further shown as including a modem for allowing communication across the communications network . It will thus be appreciated that user node constitutes an Internet access site.

Referring to a time line for a typical Internet session is shown. It will be appreciated that certain events shown on the time line may be omitted or reordered and the time intervals between events may vary. The illustrated session is initiated by the user by logging on to a computer at the user node. After logging on to the computer the user accesses the Internet for example by using a mouse to click on a browser hot link icon. In response to such selection of the browser icon the user node contacts the browser website server and the browser software is activated and an Internet session is initiated. The user may then use the browser to select a search engine to locate a website or information located on a website. Once a website of interest is identified the user selects the website e.g. using the mouse to activate hot link icon of the website. A resulting access request is transmitted from the browser to the selected website. It will be appreciated that the communications between the browser and website are conventionally conducted in accordance with standard communications protocols such as TCP IP HTTP or the like. Such protocols may define the format sequencing functionality and other aspects of the messages between the browser and the selected website to establish communication and effect loading of website information on the user node. In accordance with such protocol the access request is received by the server of the selected website and loading of website information begins .

At some point after loading of the website information has begun the desired website page will be ready for display on the user node monitor. The timing of such display is determined by algorithms implemented by browser logic that determines the order of events relative to the loading process and by the nature of the website s architecture. As will be appreciated the desired website page may be completely downloaded prior to display or portions of the desired page may be preliminarily displayed while loading continues. The time period between website selection and completion of website loading may range from a few seconds to several minutes depending on a number of factors as discussed in more detail below.

The illustrated implementation of the present invention involves initiating the displaying or playing of messages during the waiting period between site selection and website page display. It will be appreciated that such messages may continue after page display has begun or been completed. The messages as well as the logic or program for operating the messages may be downloaded via the Internet or provided on a storage medium to the user. In the case of downloading the messages and logic may be provided by a browser search engine or other service provider on its website. The preferred implementation of the present invention involves downloading a collection or set of messages to the user node and selecting particular messages from this set to be displayed during a waiting time associated with loading of the website. As shown in the preferred time period for downloading the message set occurs prior to website selection . In this manner user node resources remain fully available for use in loading the selected website information. The message set may be downloaded during the Internet session or may be stored during one Internet session for use in a subsequent Internet session. Indeed the message set or at least a base message set may be loaded long before a given Internet session. The base set may be continuously or periodically updated messages may be added and or deleted by intelligent code based on Internet usage patterns or other acquired user information. Alternatively the message set may be loaded onto the user site other than by downloading from the Internet e.g. from a disk or other storage unit. Alternatively especially in cases where the messages are not limited to presentation during Internet waiting time the messages may be selected at a separate site and transmitted to the user node for substantially real time presentation.

The preferred message display or playback period occurs during the waiting time between website selection and the initiation of website page display . Conventionally during this waiting time period the user node monitor is inactive except for certain cues to indicate that loading is in progress and perhaps indicating the status of the loading process e.g. indicating the percentage of loading that is complete and the size of the file or other data unit being downloaded . It will therefore be appreciated that the time period utilized to display messages according to the preferred implementation of the present invention is time that would otherwise be essentially wasted from the ordinary user s perspective. For this reason it is anticipated that users will be receptive to viewing messages at this time. Such messages may include advertising and promotional messages product information public service messages or various other messages.

After the user has completed entry of such user information the user may proceed to select a search engine and select a website of interest. While the user waits for the selected website to be loaded the waiting time message program selects messages in accordance with the user information if applicable and the selected messages are viewed by the user. The program may also provide messages as a screen saver function during periods of inactivity or may be used to provide conventional advertisements e.g. banner ads selected based on user information.

Especially in cases where the waiting time message program is offered in conjunction with browser search engine or other Internet services the service provider may provide an incentive program to encourage participation in the waiting time message program. For example a frequent use program may be offered to encourage and reward participation by providing credits towards free Internet access or other value based on the number or duration of messages viewed. In order to track such usage the user may be required to enter certification information in conjunction with viewing messages. Such certification information may be entered for example by responding to appropriate prompts provided during or after messages. Alternatively such credits may be awarded automatically. The user then receives credit for viewing the messages which may be applied towards the incentive program. For example the credit may be applied towards paying subscription fees or collected for application towards other items offered as part of the incentive program. It will thus be appreciated that use is monitored by an authentication system at a central site such as the site of an Internet service provider. The authentication system employs a usage credit counter to monitor usage. In addition to tracking usage for the incentive program the records accumulated by the authentication system will assist advertisers in tracking advertisement usage. Once the selected website is loaded and the waiting time messages are terminated the user may use the selected website in conventional fashion. Upon completing use of the selected website if the Internet session is completed the user logs off the Internet. Otherwise the user selects a further website page and the process is repeated. If the user moves to a page that is stored in cache e.g. by using forward or back function display will be essentially instantaneous and the message program will not be implicated. However if the new site request requires Internet access and a delay is involved messages will be provided.

During an Internet session the program monitors the user node to identify a site access request. The site access request may be identified by reference to a header message of a protocol communication between the browser and the selected website. Alternatively the site access request may be identified by monitoring operating system messages or by identifying a URL entry via a keyboard. Upon identifying a site access request the program accesses the message set stored for example on the user s hard drive or in cache. The program may select a message from the message set based on user information information regarding the expected duration of the waiting time both or neither. If user information is to be utilized the program retrieves a user profile. The user profile is preferably based on user information voluntarily entered by the user as described above. Alternatively user information may be derived for example based on the selected website a history of selected websites during the current Internet session and or previous sessions or based on other information obtained by monitoring the user node. In addition the program may identify user participation parameters entered by the user as described above.

If time information is to be utilized the program determines the approximate waiting time associated with a particular website access request. The approximate waiting time depends on a number of factors including the speed of the server at the selected website the level of congestion on the Internet and any rerouting required by such congestion the bandwidth of each leg of the route between the selected website and the user node the processing speed of the user node the operation of the browser and the size and number of files that are downloaded before display can begin. Ideally as many of these factors as possible should be taken into account in determining the approximate waiting time. For example the headers of protocol communications between the browser and the selected website convey information regarding the quantity of information that is to be downloaded. Such data is commonly used to provide displays during loading such as 15 of 7K or the like. This information can used to gain some information regarding the approximate waiting time although it will be appreciated that actual waiting time may be longer than expected as multiple files may be linked by tags i.e. a message embedded in one file may direct the browser to access another file at the selected website. The program can use such file size information together with information regarding the speed of the user node processor the operation of the browser and empirical data gained through experience to approximate the waiting time and identify messages to be displayed or played during the waiting time. Additionally information regarding the expected waiting time and regarding the fastest communication network at the current time may be obtained by pinging one or more communications networks e.g. issuing network access requests to the network s and measuring the response time for receiving a responsive signal.

The corresponding messages are then selected by the program and displayed or played back . During the waiting time the program monitors messages to identify an indication that loading is complete or has reached a level selected by the user as a participation parameter. Such an indication may be provided for example by way of a message from the browser to the operating system to initiate the display or by monitoring the loading status. Upon identifying such a message the program terminates the waiting time messages and the user node proceeds to display the website information as usual. In this manner the messages are provided only during the waiting time and do not delay or interfere with the user s Internet session.

In order to select waiting time messages of likely interest to the user the waiting time message system may access sites including user information or otherwise obtain such user information and select messages based on the information. Examples of such sites include registration sites and other user information sites. Specific implementations of such sites are described in connection with below.

Thus the first embodiment may be described as follows. In order for a user to register at one or more third party websites the user at a WWW client node accesses the World Wide Web and in a first scenario explicitly navigates through the World Wide Web to the registrar website wherein a registrar website home page is communicated back to the user s WWW browser . As one skilled in the art will appreciate program modules hereinafter denoted registrar applications output to a World Wide Web network server information in for example a hypertext markup language HTML related to capabilities of the registrar website in assisting the user in registering at third party websites . Such outputs from registrar applications are subsequently transmitted via the network server and the network interface to the user s WWW browser in the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP as one skilled in the art will appreciate. Thus upon presentation of the registrar website home page on the user s WWW client node the user subsequently may request to provide registration information to the registrar website so that he she can have this information at the registrar website automatically transferred to a third party website when the user is requested to register at such a third party website. Subsequently after the user s request to supply registration information is transmitted to the registrar website via World Wide Web network interface and network server the registrar applications receive the request and output to the user s WWW browser one or more web pages having fill out forms to be presented to the user via the WWW browser . Thus upon submittal of the filled out forms by the user to the registrar website more precisely the registrar applications the user s registration information is stored in the user registration information database .

Following the above registration procedure at the registrar website the user may then substantially automatically register at or otherwise transfer user information to various third party websites that are affiliated with the registrar website in that an agreement has been reached between each such third party website and the registrar website for transmitting a user s registration information or some portion thereof to the third party website when for example the user requests such transmittal. Thus assuming the user accesses the third party website and for example the home page for the third party website includes a form field allowing the user to specify that the user s registration information is stored and accessible at the registrar website then the user can submit a response via the World Wide Web to the third party website indicating that the user s registration information should be obtained from the registrar website . Similarly logic resident on the user node or another node for use in targeting messages based on user information may obtain such user information from the registrar site. Based on this user information or a portion thereof a user profile may be developed that is useful for targeting messages to the user. Thus the third party website requests and receives the user s registration information from the registrar website and stores the user s registration information in registration information database directly accessible by the third party website . Additionally note that when the registrar website receives a request from the third party website for user registration information a registrar application records the request for the user s registration information in a registrar access log data base . Thus the registrar website maintains a log of the third party websites requesting registration information. Further such third party websites may periodically provide the registrar website with information related to the frequency that users registered at the registrar website have accessed the third party websites . Therefore by also storing this information for example in the registrar access log the registrar website is able to determine the frequency and type of access of third party websites by users.

In a second method of using the first embodiment instead of the user explicitly navigating the World Wide Web to the registrar website for providing registration information the user may instead access a third party website wherein the home page or registration page for the third party website includes input fields allowing the user to request that the registrar website automatically be accessed so that the user can enter website registration information at the registrar website and subsequently use the registration information provided to the registrar website for automatically registering at the third party website as well as other third party websites that may be subsequently requested . That is the newly entered registration information is transferred to the third party website by entering into a registrar specific portion of the registration form for the third party website a registrar user identification and optionally a password for requesting that the third party website access the registrar website to obtain the user s registration information. Thus the user s registration information automatically is communicated to the third party website without the user explicitly having to navigate the World Wide Web and access the registrar website to register his her website registration information. In the context of targeted messages a third party site or network operator associated with selecting messages may access the registrar website to select messages for downloading or otherwise transmitting for substantially real time presentation at the user node.

Note that alternative embodiments are within the scope of the present invention wherein program modules for the present invention are distributed so that there is an executable module provided on the user s WWW client node for communication with the registrar website as well as with third party websites that accept registration information. In one embodiment of such a distributed architecture registration module is integrated into the user s WWW browser for gathering the user s website registration information and communicating with the registrar website as well as cooperating third party websites at which the user desires to register. Such a registration module may provide the user with easier access to his her registration information since the information resides locally on the user s WWW client node in a persistent nonvolatile storage. Further the registrar registration module may be activated for entering or updating user registration information without the user necessarily being connected to the World Wide Web . Moreover by integrating the registrar registration module into the user s WWW browser the user is presented with an integrated set of functions for registering and accessing third party websites .

Thus in such distributed architectures after the user has entered registration information into the registrar registration module this module will substantially automatically contact the registrar website via the World Wide Web and thereby communicate the user s registration information to the registrar website so that for example the user s registration information may be reliably stored in case there are failures at the user s WWW client node . Thus to access a third party website that cooperates with the registrar for registering the user once the user has made contact through the World Wide Web with such a third party website the user transfers his her registration information from the registration module to the third party website. Further note that in the registration process of the present embodiment whenever the user registers at a third party website the registrar website is provided by for example the module with information related to the registration so that the user also has a off site backup copy of all registrations at third party websites residing at the registrar website .

Note that other distributed architectures for the present invention are also contemplated wherein the registrar registration module on the user s WWW client node is not integrated with the user s WWW browser . In such an embodiment the user may be faced with a different user interaction technique for the module than that of the WWW browser . However the user is provided with added flexibility in choosing a WWW browser and or using his her existing browser which may not contain as part of the browser the registrar registration module .

In a flowchart is presented describing the steps performed when the user explicitly navigates the World Wide Web to contact the registrar website for supplying registration information. Accordingly assuming the user contacts the registrar website in step the website receives the user s request for information. Subsequently in step the registrar website responds with a home page describing the registrar services a selection or browsing capability for reviewing third party websites accepting registrar registrations and a fill out form so that the user may request to proceed if desired with entering registration information at the registrar website . In step the user determines whether to proceed with the registration process or not. Assuming the user elects to proceed the request to proceed is transferred back to the registrar website wherein a registrar application examines the response and outputs a fill out form that is transmitted back to the user s WWW browser so that the user may enter his her registration information and submit it to the registrar website . Thus in step the steps of the flowchart of are performed by the user when entering information into the registration fill out form provided by the registrar website . Subsequently in step the user initiates the transfer of his her registration information to the registrar website . Note that the submittal of the registration information may be performed by a conventional electronic transfer through the World Wide Web using any one of various Internet protocols or alternatively other techniques for transferring the information to the registrar website are also contemplated. For example the user may fax a printed copy of a completed registration form to the registrar website at which point the information may be manually input into the user registration information database . In step upon receiving the user s registration information one or more registrar applications review the user s registration information for determining whether there is enough information supplied to at least uniquely identify the user. If not then in steps and a registrar application s requests additional information from the user and flags the user s information currently stored in the user registration information database indicating that a user response is required to further process the user s information. As an aside note that other feedback loops to the user are contemplated that are related to the loop of steps through . For example it may be the case that the user has supplied sufficient information to be uniquely identifiable at the registrar website but the user has supplied insufficient information for the registrar website to supply adequate information to most third party websites that utilize registrar registration capabilities. Thus a similar feedback loop to loop through may be provided for requesting that the user supply additional information so that a substantial number of third party websites cooperative with registrar will allow the user to register at them using only the information supplied by the registrar website .

Referring again to step if a determination is made that sufficient registration information has been received at the registrar website the user s registration information is stored in the user registration information database step and subsequently a registrar application outputs a request to the user to select a user ID and password that can be at least used to access the user s registration information at the registrar website step . Assuming as in step that the user submits a user ID and a password to the registrar website then in step a determination is made by the present invention a registrar application as to whether the user supplied ID and password is acceptable for uniquely identifying the user. If not then steps through are repeated until an appropriate user ID and password are entered by the user. Thus assuming that an acceptable user ID and password are provided in step the registration information supplied by the user is marked as unverified since there has been no independent confirmation that the user supplied information is accurate. Subsequently in step a registrar application commences to enrich the user s supplied registration information with publicly available information related to the user and to the degree possible i.e. conforming with Internet etiquette privacy concerns of users and public policy to verify the user s registration information. Note that by comparing the user supplied information with information about the user from other sources a determination can be made as to the accuracy of the user supplied information. Thus whenever an item of the user supplied information is independently verified then that item is unmarked. Alternatively if discrepancies arise between the user supplied information and other publicly available information about the user then the user may be alerted to these discrepancies and requested to confirm his her initial responses.

Referring now briefly to this flowchart presents the steps a user performs when entering website registration information into the fill out forms to be submitted to registrar. Accordingly in step the user determines whether to supply basic information i.e. requested by a substantial number of third party websites as described in step or to supply expanded information i.e. more extensive information about the user so that for example registrar has sufficient user information to register the user at substantially all cooperating third party websites . Note that at least in one embodiment the basic information supplied in step i.e. the user s name e mail address gender and date of birth is also requested in the forms for expanded information in step . Thus upon filling in at least one field from the fill out forms step presented in either step or the present invention field checks the user s input for syntactically appropriate responses. Subsequently in step the user inputs a request to terminate entering information in the presently presented fill out form s and in step the user determines whether to enter additional information in either the basic registration information fill out forms or the expanded information fill out forms. If the user indicates that he she desires to enter further registration information then step is again performed. Alternatively the flowchart returns to the invoking program flowchart with the user supplied registration information.

Subsequently once the third party website has received a response from the user a determination is made as to whether the user is registered at the website step . If the user is registered then no further pertinent processing is required. Alternatively if the user is not registered at the third party website then a response is transferred from the third party website through the World Wide Web to the user s WWW browser providing the user with the fill out forms in which the user is requested to enter information for registering at the third party website. Note that if the third party website is configured to accept user registration information from the present invention then at least one fill out form related to registering at the third party website will request information related to registering the user by using the present invention. In particular the third party website may present the user with a fill out form requesting the user to enter a user ID and optionally a password for the present invention i.e. registrar if the user is registered at the registrar website . Additionally the presented fill out forms may request the user to indicate whether he she prefers to register at the third party website by using registrar. Thus assuming the user desires to register at the third party website a determination is made as to whether the user wishes to register using the registrar present invention or register at the third party website without using the present invention step . If the user chooses to not use the registrar for registering at the third party website then the user explicitly supplies registration information for the present third party website step . Alternatively if the user chooses to use registrar to register then once the present third party website receives a response from the user indicating the choice to use registrar to register in step the present third party website sends a request to the registrar website for registering the user at the registrar website . Subsequently in step the steps of are performed for registering the user at the registrar website . Subsequently after registering at the registrar website in step the user is automatically placed in contact with the present third party website so that he she submits a registration fill out form to this third party website a indicating that the user s registration information may be obtained from the registrar website and b providing a user ID and optionally a password for the registrar website to be used as identification at the present third party website. Following this in step the third party website invokes the program corresponding to to obtain the user s registration data from the registrar website . Lastly upon verification by the third party website of the user s registration data the user is granted access to the desired third party website and or application step .

In a flowchart is presented of the registration data transmission process from the registrar website to a third party website or targeted message selection logic resident on the user node or elsewhere. Accordingly in step the third party website provides the registrar website with identification of the third party website the user s registrar user ID and any registrar password. Further in some instances as will be described below the third party website also supplies the registrar website with a return path to the user through the World Wide Web . Following this in step a determination is made by the registrar website as to whether the third party website supplied information can be authenticated. If not all third party website information is authenticated then step is encountered wherein a determination is made as to whether to request that the third party website to resend the information of step . Note that such a determination may be made in one embodiment depending upon whether the third party website identification is authenticated. That is if the third party website identification is authenticated then a retry may be allowed. Otherwise no retry may be allowed. Alternatively referring again to step if all information transmitted from the third party website is authenticated at the registrar website then step is encountered. In this step the program represented by is performed for supplying the third party website with registration information related to the user from the user registration information database .

Referring now to the flowchart presented here provides the steps for supplying a present third party website with registration information from the registrar website assuming that the present third party website has requested such information and that the request has been authenticated at the registrar website . Accordingly in step the registrar website or more precisely a registrar application performs the steps of for retrieving the user registration information requested by the present third party website from the user registration information database . Note that a third party website may request various categories of information from the registrar website related to the user. In particular a third party website may request a basic information as discussed in step of b expanded information as discussed in step of c custom information wherein selected fields from the basic and expanded information are provided and d proprietary information wherein one or more additional user related information items may be provided wherein these items have been obtained by the registrar website by for example enriching and verifying the registration information obtained from the user as in step of .

Following step step is encountered wherein a registration application determines whether the present third party website requesting user information for a user attempting to register at this third party website requires that a user ID and optionally password be generated specifically for this third party website. That is the third party website may require a user ID and or password that conforms with a format peculiar to the third party website . Note that to perform the step in at least one embodiment information related to the requirements of the present third party website are stored at the registrar website . In particular the registrar website may store a user information request template for each third coordinating party website having access to user information at the registrar website such that a registrar application upon identifying a particular third party website may access a related user information request template for determining what information may be required by this third party website.

If a user ID and optionally password need not be generated specifically for the requesting third party website then in step the user information requested by the third party website is encrypted and in step the encrypted information is sent to the third party website. Following this in step a registrar application logs an entry or a record in the registrar access log database indicating that registration information for the user has been transmitted to the present third party website . Subsequently in step a registrar application or more precisely an instantiation thereof waits for an acceptance response from the present third party website to which the encrypted user information was sent. Note that the response from the present third party website may include a third party website specific user ID and optionally password if the user was not previously registered at this third party website. That is the third party website may automatically generate at least a user ID if the user was not previously registered at the website. Alternatively it may be the case that the present third party website uses the user s registrar registration user ID and password for registering the user at the third party website . Note that in at least one embodiment for registration processing at a third party website the use of the registrar user ID does not create ambiguity in the identity of users registering at the third party website. For example a user seeking access to a cooperating third party website may be required to indicate that his her user ID and or password is a registrar generated user ID and or password so that the third party website can process the entered user identification differently from that of users who have registered without using the present invention. Subsequently when an acceptance response from the requesting third party website is provided to the registrar website or more precisely a registrar application this response is logged in the registrar access log database in step . Following this latter step in step a determination is made as to whether the response from the present third party website indicates that the user is now registered at this third party website. If no such indication is provided then in step a message is sent to the user at the user s WWW client node that registrar cannot register the user at the present third party website to which the user has requested registration and access. Further the registrar application performing step may also supply the user with a reason as to why the user cannot register through registrar at the present party website if such a reason was indicated by this third party website when the response of step was received.

Alternatively if in step it is determined that the user is registered at the present third party website then in step the program corresponding to the flowchart of is performed for storing at least the user s ID and optionally password for the present third party website at the registrar website more precisely in the user registration information database as will be discussed hereinbelow.

Referring again to step of if a registrar application is required to generate a user ID and optionally password for the third party website then step is next performed wherein a registrar application generates a user ID and optionally password to be transmitted to the third party website . Subsequently the sequence of steps through are performed. Note that this sequence of steps is substantially the same sequence of steps as steps through . However the response from the present third party website logged in step may include an indication as to whether the user generated by the registrar application is acceptable to the present third party website .

Accordingly continuing the discussion of from step if the response from the present third party website indicates that the user is registered at the desired third party website then step is performed wherein the program corresponding to the flowchart of is again used to store the user s ID and optionally password for the present third party website in the user registration information database as in step . Alternatively if in step it is determined that the user is not registered at the present third party website then in step a determination is made as to whether the generated user registration information i.e. user ID and optionally password step has been rejected by the present third party website. If so then in step a determination is made as to whether this rejection has occurred less than a predetermined number of times i.e. the sequence of steps through have been iteratively performed less than a predetermined number of times in attempting to register the user at the present third party website . If the results of the test in step is affirmative then step is again encountered for generating alternative user registration information for the present third party website. Note that it is an aspect of the present invention that at least in one embodiment such generations produce user IDs that are meaningful to the user and or are related to other website registration user IDs for the user. Thus in one embodiment of the present invention the step uses the user s registrar user ID as a seed from which to generate a user ID acceptable to the present third party website . Moreover note that the generation process of step may use various heuristics and third party website constraints to generate acceptable user IDs.

Alternately if the negative branch from step is followed then the third party website may have rejected registering the user for any of a number of reasons that may not be able to be alleviated in a timely fashion so that the user can be registered at this third party website in a short amount of time. Accordingly step is encountered wherein a message is transmitted to the user s WWW client node indicating that registrar cannot currently register the user at the requested third party website . Further note that if in step it is determined that too many attempts have been made to generate acceptable registration information for the third party website then step is also encountered.

The flowchart of is representative of the processing variations for supplying a third party website or message selection logic with registration information. For instance those skilled in the art will appreciate that steps and may have a timer associated with them whereby if there is no response from the third party website within a predetermined time period then a default response is provided by a registrar application so that one of the steps or is performed as part of the processing when such a timer expires and subsequent steps in the flowchart are performed. Additionally other steps may be inserted for example on the negative branch from step wherein these additional steps attempt to address other anomalies indicated in the acceptance response received in step . For example if the third party website requests additional user information than what was provided in step then if this additional information is in the user registration information database and the user has indicated that it is permissible to disseminate this information then the additional information may be transmitted to the present third party website . Also in such a case the transmittal of this additional information is recorded in the registrar access log database .

Referring now to wherein the flowchart for a program is provided for supplying from the user registration information database a requesting third party website or message selection logic with registration information related to a particular user. Accordingly in step of if the registrar website has not been previously supplied with an indication as to what type of information is required by the requesting third party website then a registrar application constructs such a request to be transmitted to the requesting third party website and subsequently the application may wait for a response from this third party website. Following step in step it is assumed that the registrar website has been provided with an indication or specification as to what information the requesting third party website desires. Thus the registrar application performing step may now determine what registration information is to be transmitted to this third party website. Note that at least in one embodiment of step the user registration information requested may require validation according to the following criteria 

 1.1 The type and amount of registration information for a user that the user has indicated is available to be transmitted to a requesting third party website.

 1.2 The type and amount of information the requesting third party website has contracted with the registrar website for transmitting regarding a particular user or category of users.

Thus as discussed with respect to step of either basic expanded custom or proprietary registration information related to a user is transmitted to the requesting third party website in step .

Regarding the steps of in step a determination is made as to whether the user has been provided with a user ID optionally password for the third party website to which the user is attempting to register that is different from the user s registrar user ID and or password. If not then there is nothing additional to store at the registrar website and the flowchart ends. Alternatively if the decision of step results in a positive answer then step is performed wherein the user s specific user ID and optionally password for this third party website is stored with other user registration information in the user registration information database . Note the following advantages accrue by storing user registration information at the registrar website a each user has the convenience of off site storage backup for each such third party website to which the user is registered and b depending on the registration process at the third party website it may be expedient for such a website at least temporarily to automatically contact the registrar website for retrieving for example the user s third party website specific user ID upon subsequent user accesses to the third party website.

Following step in step a determination is made as to whether the third party website has indicated that it will initiate requests as in b immediately above. If so then no further processing needs to be accomplished here in that the user may enter his her user registrar website user ID and optionally password when accessing the third party website. Alternatively if step yields a negative answer then step is performed wherein the registrar website sends a message to the user at the user s WWW client node providing the user with the ID and optionally password for the third party website.

In an alternative embodiment a registrar registration module may be provided at the user s WWW client node . This module whether incorporated into the WWW browser or external to the browser and communicating with the browser through for example a browser port may store locally at the client node registration information for accessing third party websites to which the user has registered or for use in selecting targeted messages. In flowcharts are provided for programs illustrating the processing of this alternative embodiment of the present invention.

In a flowchart is presented of the program for registering at a third party website when the module is installed on the user s client node . Describing now the steps of in step the user sends a request to access a third party website via the user s WWW browser . Subsequently upon receiving the request the accessed third party website responds with a home page having a registration fill out form step . Assuming that the registration fill out form allows the user to indicate that user registration information may be obtained locally at the client node in step the user indicates on the fill out form that he she desires to register at the third party website and that his her registration information can be retrieved using the registrar registration module residing on the user s client node . Further note that the user may be required to activate or alert the module so that this module can supply the appropriate user registration information to be communicated to the third party website . Also note that the home page from the third party website may indicate the type of information required to register the user and this information may be used either manually or automatically for determining the user registration information stored on the user s client node that will be transmitted to the third party website. Subsequently in step the user specifies that the registration fill out form is to be submitted to the third party website. Accordingly the WWW browser communicates with the registrar registration module to supply the registration information to the third party website. That is the processing performed here includes the steps of which are described herein below.

Subsequently in step a message is sent from the registration module to the registrar website indicating that the user has registered at the third party website and additionally supplying the registrar website with any user ID and password specific to the third party website. Note that by sending this information as well as for example a copy of substantially all of the user s registration information stored locally to the registrar website the user is provided with an automatic off site backup of his her registration information. Additionally the user may be provided with other advantages by providing his her user registration information to the registrar website . In particular the registrar website may enrich the user s registration information with publicly available information on the user and alert the user to discrepancies between the user information and various publicly available records on the user.

Referring now to the flowchart of this flowchart describes the steps performed when supplying a third party website or message selection logic with registration information retained by the registrar registration module on the user s node. In step the steps of the flowchart of are performed for retrieving the registration information requested by the third party website. Subsequently in step the registrar registration module packages the accessed registration information for the third party website together with the user s registrar ID and optionally password for transmittal to the third party website. Subsequently in step the registration information packaged together in step is encrypted so that in step this encrypted information may be sent securely to the third party website via the World Wide Web . Following this in step the module logs an entry into a local log on the client node indicating what registration information was sent to the third party website.

Subsequently in step a process may be instantiated to wait for an acceptance response from the third party website so that when such a response is obtained it may be logged locally at the client node in step .

In one embodiment the user may configure the registrar registration module to log all activities with third party websites and provide the records of this log to the registrar website . This allows the registrar website or personnel that maintain the registrar website to analyze user activities on the World Wide Web . Such analysis may be useful to both registrar users and third party website personnel in that given a user s World Wide Web activity the registrar website may suggest additional third party websites of which the user may not be aware. Further by analyzing the user access logs of registrar users the registrar website may provide statistics to the third party websites as to the number and types of users accessing their respective websites.

Note that in at least one embodiment the user is allowed to change his her registrar user ID and or password. However it may be the case that when a user changes his her registrar user ID that the new requested user ID has already been assigned to another registrar user. Thus the registrar website may respond with a request for further information such as a request for a different user ID from the user wherein when the user submits the additional information the registrar website again checks to determine if the user is uniquely identifiable. Note that the loop of steps and are provided to represent the iterative process described here of changing the user s user ID. Further note that in some embodiments of the present invention the registrar website may respond with alternative variations for a new user ID so that the user is not left to guess at a registrar user ID that is acceptable for uniquely identifying the user.

Returning now to step if the user s registration information is stored locally at the user s client node then step is performed instead of the steps . However for simplicity a discussion of the processing performed in step is not described in detail here. Instead a detailed discussion of this step is provided by and the discussion of hereinbelow for changing the registration information at the user s client node and for transmitting the changes to the registrar website .

Regardless of the branch of processing taken from step eventually step and the subsequent steps of are encountered wherein the registrar updates or alerts third party websites or message selection logic having previously received user registration information that this information may be outdated. Thus the steps are performed so that the registration information provided to such third party websites or message selection logic via the present invention is consistent with the newly supplied user registration information. However in at least one embodiment prior to providing any newly entered user registration information to the third party websites or message selection logic such information may be compared or correlated with publicly available information regarding the user that is for example accessible via certain third party websites . Further the user may request his her newly entered registration information by supplied to only selected websites to which the user is registered or alternatively the user may request that the newly entered registration information be supplied to all websites to which the user is registered.

If the user desires to enter further information then step is again encountered and a determination is made once again as to whether the user requests to obtain a registrar user ID. However it is important to note that the steps provided in this flowchart are only an indication of the processing provided by the registrar registration module and the user s browser. In particular since the user interfaces typically used by World Wide Web browsers allow a user to select the fill out form fields to modify the positive branch from step is taken only when the user enters information in a fill out form field indicating that a registrar user ID is requested. Similarly the negative branch from step is taken whenever user information is entered into other fill out form fields unrelated to obtaining a registrar user ID.

Accordingly if the user desires to enter other information than that required to obtain a registrar user ID then from step step is encountered wherein the registrar registration module explicitly requests the user s registrar registration user ID and optionally password . Subsequently in step assuming the user enters a registrar user ID a determination is made as to whether the registrar user ID is valid. Note that this determination is initially made locally at the user s client node without contacting the registrar website . However in one embodiment it is an option that if the registrar user ID entered is not found in the client node then the registrar registration module may inquire of the user as to whether he she desires the registrar website to be interrogated for the registrar user ID and password and if found download the user s registration information to the user s client node . If no valid registrar user ID is determined in step then the program ends in step . Alternatively if a valid registrar user ID is obtained then in step a determination is made as to whether the user requests to exit the present program and thereby stop supplying registration information. Note that this step is similar to step in that if the user continues to enter registration information in fill out form fields then the negative branch from this step is followed and alternatively if the user for example activates an exit button on the user interface then the positive branch from step will be followed. Accordingly if the negative branch is followed then in step the program of is performed for obtaining new user registration information and subsequently step is encountered or more precisely the user interface is provided that allows the user to request a registrar user ID .

Alternatively if the positive branch is taken from step then step is encountered wherein the registrar registration module transmits or schedules the transmission of any newly entered user registration information that the user desires to be transmitted to the registrar website for backup storage. Thus in one embodiment the step provides the user with the option to discard the registration information provided in step above instead of transmitting this information to the registrar website .

In a flowchart is presented of the program for obtaining a registrar user ID and optionally password for the embodiment the registrar registration module retains the user s registrar user ID and optionally password for automatically providing to websites at which the user requests registration or to which the user releases information for use in targeted message selection. Accordingly in step the registrar registration module requests the user to select a registrar user ID and optionally a password that can be used to access the user s registration information at both the user s client node and at the registrar website . Assuming that the user enters a user ID and optionally password in step in step the registrar registration module transmits the user selected ID and optionally password to the registrar website . Subsequently in step a determination is made by the registrar application as to whether the user s selected user ID and optionally password are acceptable to the registrar website. That is a registrar application accesses the user registration information database to determine if the selected user ID is sufficiently unique. Note that other steps may be performed between steps and . For example the syntax for user IDs and optionally passwords may be checked at the module prior to transmitting the user s selected registration information to the registrar website .

Continuing with step a determination is made at the registrar website as to whether the user s selected user ID and optionally password are acceptable to registrar. If so then in step a registration application stores the user s ID and optionally password in the user registration information database . Note that since it is unlikely that any further information related to the present user is stored at the registrar website the process of storing the user s user ID and optionally password includes creating a new record in the database and marking all remaining fields related to registration information for this user to indicate that these fields are as yet not valid. Following this in step a registrar application transmits a message to the user s WWW browser indicating that the user s selected user ID and optionally password is acceptable to registrar.

Alternatively if the negative path is taken from step then step is encountered wherein a registrar application attempts to generate an acceptable user ID and optionally password as a substitute for the user s proposed user ID and optionally password . Note that in generating alternative registration information the registrar application may use the user supplied information as the basis or seed for generating an acceptable user ID and optionally password to be transmitted back to the user. Accordingly in step once the user is presented with the newly generated registration information on the user s client node the registrar registration module provides the user with the option to accept or reject the generated information. If the user accepts the generated registration information then the flowchart ends. Alternatively if the user rejects this information then in step a further determination is made by the module as to whether the user enters a new user ID and optionally password as an alternative to the generated registration information. If such new user registration information is provided then step and steps thereafter are again performed in attempting to provide a registrar user ID and optionally password to the user. Alternatively if the user indicates in step that no further proposed candidates for a user ID and optionally password will be forthcoming then the flowchart ends without an acceptable registrar user ID being obtained.

The preceding description is directed to the selective transmission of registration information for registration purposes. It will be appreciated that the architectures and methodologies described above can be used in other contexts where the user desires to selectively disseminate user information. For example the user may desire to transmit user contact information such as a name residence or business address URL or phone number and or financial information such as credit card numbers or other account information in connection with electronic commerce transactions over the internet applying for a loan or club membership over the internet or various other purposes. In addition a user may wish to selectively disseminate information regarding certain goods or services. In the context of air travel a user may from time to time wish to transmit information regarding seating preferences meal preferences routing preferences e.g. non stop flights passport numbers and the like to one or more airlines and or travel agents. Similarly user information may be transmitted in connection with identifying music books hotels clothing e.g. clothing size information or other goods or services using the internet. Moreover a user may wish to make personal records such as medical records and investment records available for transmission over the internet as may be desired. Information regarding lifestyle interests such as favorite sports magazine subscriptions and the like may also be stored for selective transmission.

The storage of a user information repository has a number of advantages in such contexts. First the ability to manually enter such information that may be re used from time to time saves time reduces annoyance and reduces the opportunity for data entry errors. In addition by transmitting such information via secure transmissions the likelihood of accidental or fraudulent dissemination of sensitive subject matter is reduced.

It will be appreciated that such a user information repository may be implemented in many ways. For example user information may be stored at a dedicated site similar to the registration site discussed above. Alternatively the user information may be stored at the user s website with appropriate modules for facilitating selective transmission. Alternatively the user information may be stored on a non dedicated site to which the user has previously transmitted user information together with information concerning retransmission. For example the user information may be accumulated and stored in connection with a portal site such as are increasingly being used as a starting point for internet sessions.

Once the module has been installed on the user node the information site receives secured transmissions from the user including user information. The types of user information received at the information site will depend on the interests and desires of the user. In this regard some users may desire to store only certain user contact information such as a URL but may be uncomfortable providing detailed financial information such as credit card numbers. Other users may wish to store such sensitive information in order to facilitate financial transactions over the internet. Optionally the user information supplied by the user may be supplemented by information obtained from public sources information regarding patterns of website visits by the user and related information of so called cookies and other sources available for use in deriving a user profile.

In the illustrated implementation the user is allowed to select the types of information that will be stored on the information site. However the information site administrator may define minimum mandatory information fields. Preferably the user can fill in selected pages of information of interest to the user such as for example an air travel preference page a lodging preference page a general financial information page a client contact page etc. The information collected on each page is preferably stored in fields so that the user can better control the information which is disseminated and so that only the particular information required for specific transactions needs to be transmitted thereby promoting data transmission efficiency. Moreover in the illustrated implementation the user can associate different security levels with different pages of user information and or specific information fields. In this regard a user may be willing to allow dissemination of certain information such as user contact information to categories of websites e.g. travel agencies and airlines or any website registered in a database of the information site. The user may desire a higher level of security for other types of information such as account numbers. In such cases the information site may store a security code associated with such sensitive information. The user can then regulate access to such information by controlling access to the security code. Alternatively the user may require voice channel confirmation or other case by case confirmation before releasing such information. For example the user may require notification by e mail phone facsimile express mail or other means prior to releasing certain information. In this manner the user has an opportunity to deny or limit access to such information. A set of rules are thereby defined for controlling dissemination of the user information.

To further ensure confidentiality and instill user confidence a trusted agent such as an auditing firm may be employed to audit and control operation of the information site so as to ensure appropriate use of all user data and provide periodic certificates reflecting user information dissemination. For example the agent could periodically or annually cause all information in the information site to be transmitted periodically or on request in electronic or other form to the user for independent review and confirmation.

After the user information has been stored at the information site the site may from time to time receive requests to transmit user information all of the stored information or a portion thereof to one or more target websites. Such a request may come in various ways. For example the user may refer a target website to the information site in order to facilitate a transaction between the user and the target website. Alternatively a target site may initiate a request for user information without prior communications between the target website and the user. Moreover the user may request dissemination of the user information to target websites without prior communication between the user and the target websites.

Upon receiving the request the information site consults the rules regarding access to the requested user information. In the simplest case the rules may indicate that the requested information may be disseminated to any one requesting the information. In other cases the rules may only allow release of the requested information upon receipt of an identification code password and or other indication that the user has granted permission to disseminate the requested information. In still other cases as noted above more stringent security measures may be implemented prior to releasing the information.

Based on such rules the information site makes a determination as to whether access to the requested information should be allowed. If the rules indicate that access should not be allowed the information site transmits an access denied message to the requesting party e.g. a third party website or logic for selecting targeted messages for display or playback during Internet session waiting time. If desired when an access denied message is transmitted to a third party requester the information site may also notify the user of the attempted access and the identity of the requesting party. Such information may also be stored in a database to help identify regularly offending parties.

If the rules indicate that access should be allowed then the information site proceeds to transmit the requested user information to the target website or sites. It will thus be appreciated that the invention allows users to store user information for substantially automatic retransmission as desired. The invention is particularly advantageous with respect to disseminating types of information that are repeatedly utilized in Internet transactions. In addition the invention has substantial benefits relating to security for transmitting sensitive user information.

Moreover the invention is useful to help the user identify information of interest. In this regard the personal information could be used for example to direct the user to other sites of interest e.g. from your profile we note that you wear size 15 shoes and have visited WWW site XXX that sells larger shoe sizes. Here is a listing of other sites on the internet where you can buy larger sized shoes. In order to keep the user information updated the user can change or add to the user information as desired for example electronically by phone or by mail. In addition to facilitate acquisition and updating of information user information may be uploaded by the user an agent of the user e.g. a brokerage firm doctor travel agent employer etc. or others from compatible programs. Conversely such information can be downloaded into smart cards or other storage devices as desired by the user. While various implementations of the present invention have been described in detail it is apparent that further modifications and adaptions of the invention will occur to those skilled in the art. However it is to be expressly understood that such modifications and adaptions are within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

