---

title: Media recommendation and acquisition system
abstract: A method of providing a media recommendation is provided. The method includes receiving user provided information at a first device from a second device. The user provided information includes user preference information and user device information. The received user provided information is stored at a device accessible by the first device. Media information provided by a plurality of devices is monitored. The plurality of devices are accessible by the first device. A media recommendation is generated based on the received user provided information and the media information. If the user provided information includes an automatic download authorization, a media file associated with the generated media recommendation is downloaded to the first device from a content provider device. The downloaded media file is sent from the first device to the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745047&OS=08745047&RS=08745047
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08745047
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
Recommendation systems can enhance the selection process for users. For media segments recommendations are available to provide recommendations for various media including video audio books software images papers etc. Recommendation systems may be based on research models or based upon collaborative filtering. Some systems create special rules and combine one or more recommendation philosophies in generating suggestions for users. Conventional models of recommendation usually function based on the past behavior of the user which is provided to the recommendation system to generate recommendations. Past behavior can include browsing a music website music downloaded via a music service etc. In general the more data that is available the better the recommendation system can identify a user s likes and dislikes.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a vide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and make part of this disclosure.

Illustrative systems methods devices etc. are described for the creation of a recommendation system to automatically analyze organize and augment a user s media collection. With reference to a block diagram of a media acquisition system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrative embodiment media acquisition system monitors a user s collection of media a user s express desires and external data available from the user such as travel plans leisure activity schedule driving habits etc. along with other demographic data like age sex zip code of residence etc. to create a fused recommendation service that can apply research or collaborative filtering to identify recommendations for purchase and or download of various media to one or more user device of a user. Media acquisition system may fill gaps in the user s media collection automatically based upon the user s desired budget and purchasing information if the user provides the appropriate authorization. Media acquisition system may automatically send the purchased media to one or more user device of a user based on the user s specification to maximize access to the media and the media experience for the user.

Media acquisition system can include one or more user computing devices . . . a middleware system a cloud computing system one or more media content provider devices . . . and one or more general information devices . . . . The one or more user computing devices . . . may be a computer of any form factor including a laptop a desktop a server an integrated messaging device a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone an iPod etc. The one or more user computing devices . . . may be associated with the same and or different users. The one or more media content provider devices . . . and the one or more general information devices . . . may be computers of any form factor. The devices associated with the one or more user computing devices . . . middleware system cloud computing system the one or more media content provider devices . . . and the one or more general information devices . . . may communicate using a network . Network may include one or more type of network including a cellular network a peer to peer network the Internet a local area network a wide area network a Wi Fi network a Bluetooth network etc.

Cloud computing system can include one or more servers and one or more databases . A cloud computing system refers to one or more computational resources accessible over a network to provide users with on demand computing services. The one or more servers can include one or more computing devices . . . which may be computers of any form factor. The one or more databases can include a first database . . . and an nth database . The one or more databases can be housed on one or more of the one or more servers or may be housed on separate computing devices accessible by the one or more servers directly through wired or wireless connection or through network . The one or more databases may be organized into tiers and may be developed using a variety of database technologies without limitation. The components of cloud computing system may be implemented in a single computing device or a plurality of computing devices in a single location in a single facility and or may be remote from one another.

With reference to a block diagram of a user computing device of media acquisition system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. User computing device can include an input interface an output interface a communication interface a computer readable medium a processor and a media acquisition application . Different and additional components may be incorporated into user computing device without limitation. Media acquisition application provides a graphical user interface with user selectable and controllable functionality. Media acquisition application may include a browser application and or other user interface based application that interacts with middleware system to automatically or under control of the user receive media based on a recommendation information generated by media acquisition system .

Input interface provides an interface for receiving information from the user for entry into user computing device as known to those skilled in the art. Input interface may interface with various input technologies including but not limited to a keyboard a pen and touch screen a mouse a track ball a touch screen a keypad one or more buttons etc. to allow the user to enter information into user computing device or to make selections presented in a user interface displayed using a display under control of media acquisition application . Input interface may provide both an input and an output interface. For example a touch screen both allows user input and presents output to the user. User computing device may have one or more input interfaces that use the same or a different interface technology.

Output interface provides an interface for outputting information for review by a user of user computing device . For example output interface may include an interface to a display a printer a speaker etc. The display may be any of a variety of displays including but not limited to a thin film transistor display a light emitting diode display a liquid crystal display etc. The printer may be any of a variety of printers including but not limited to an ink jet printer a laser printer etc. User computing device may have one or more output interfaces that use the same or a different interface technology.

Communication interface provides an interface for receiving and transmitting data between devices using various protocols transmission technologies and media. The communication interface may support communication using various transmission media that may be wired or wireless. User computing device may have one or more communication interfaces that use the same or different protocols transmission technologies and media.

Computer readable medium is an electronic holding place or storage for information so that the information can be accessed by processor . Computer readable medium can include but is not limited to any type of random access memory RAM any type of read only memory ROM any type of flash memory etc. such as magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards flash memory devices etc. User computing device may have one or more computer readable media that use the same or a different memory media technology. User computing device also may have one or more drives that support the loading of a memory media such as a CD a DVD a flash memory card etc.

Processor executes instructions as known to those skilled in the art. The instructions may be carried out by a special purpose computer logic circuits or hardware circuits. Thus processor may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination of these methods. The term execution is the process of running an application or the carrying out of the operation called for by an instruction. The instructions may be written using one or more programming language scripting language assembly language etc. Processor executes an instruction meaning that it performs the operations called for by that instruction. Processor operably couples with input interface with output interface with communication interface with computer readable medium and with media acquisition application to receive to send and to process information. Processor may retrieve a set of instructions from a permanent memory device and copy the instructions in an executable form to a temporary memory device that is generally some form of RAM. User computing device may include a plurality of processors that use the same or a different processing technology.

With reference to a block diagram of middleware system of media acquisition system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Middleware system can include an input interface an output interface a communication interface a computer readable medium a processor and a media acquisition architecture . Different and additional components may be incorporated into middleware system without limitation. For example middleware system may include a database that is directly accessible by middleware system or accessible by middleware system using a network such as network . Middleware system may further include a cache for temporarily storing information communicated to middleware system . Input interface provides similar functionality to input interface . Output interface provides similar functionality to output interface . Communication interface provides similar functionality to communication interface . Computer readable medium provides similar functionality to computer readable medium . Processor provides similar functionality to processor .

Media acquisition architecture can include a media acquisition control application an application engine business components and a hardware abstraction layer . Media acquisition control application includes the operations associated with interfacing between cloud computing system and user computing device to maintain and organize user media and to automatically generate recommendations for the purchase download of media to user computing device . Media acquisition architecture includes functionality to support automatic purchase ratings list favorites favorites not purchased based on recommendations or explicit information . In addition to traditional research based collaborative filtering and popularity chart recommendations Media acquisition architecture incorporates third party data from the user such as credit card information and other available data website browsing information GPS data and calendar information demographic information to make media suggestions etc.

Media acquisition architecture may utilize load balancing servers content servers database servers application servers and registration servers. The application and registration servers facilitate the registration process for a user as well as the download of media acquisition application and application updates. Middleware system is configured to download the correct software application for the one or more user computing devices . . . based upon registration information received from the user. During the registration process the user may fill in certain fields that assist in the identification of the user s lifestyle choices and preferences. User related data is received from the one or more user computing devices . . . and formatted using the application and database servers. The load balancing servers sort user queries from data sent from the user and sort external data sources emanating from a user s access and applicability to media acquisition system . Middleware system sends anonymous data points to cloud computing system that constitute a user s current settings and information along with any new data and security specifications of cloud computing system .

With reference to a block diagram of modules associated with cloud computing system of media acquisition system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Cloud computing system can include an interface module a service catalog a provisioning tool a monitoring and metering module a system management module and the one or more servers . Different and additional components may be incorporated into cloud computing system without limitation. For example cloud computing system may further include the one or more databases . Middleware system interacts with interface module to request services. Service catalog provides a list of services that middleware system can request. Provisioning tool allocates computational resources from the one or more servers to deliver the requested service and may deploy the required images for execution at the one or more servers . Monitoring and metering module tracks the usage of the one or more servers so the resources used can be attributed to a certain user possibly for billing purposes. System management module manages the one or more servers . The one or more servers can be interconnected as if in a grid running in parallel.

Interface module may be configured to allow selection of a service from service catalog . A request associated with a selected service may be sent to system management module . System management module identifies an available resource s such as one or more of servers and or one or more of databases . System management module calls provisioning tool to allocate the identified resource s . Provisioning tool may deploy a requested stack or web application as well.

With reference to illustrative operations performed by cloud computing system are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. In an operation one or more media acquisition applications are received. The one or more media acquisition applications may be in a text format an object code format or an executable format. The received one or more media acquisition applications are stored to cloud computing system in an operation . User profile information is received in an operation . For example user profile information may include home and work vocation address age sex race sexual orientation daily weekly monthly and yearly income entertainment and media preferences daily weekly monthly yearly schedule spending habits vacation preferences restaurant preferences social habits political affiliations hobbies personality profile media purchasing budget user s existing media collection automatic purchasing request purchasing information user device information and preferences etc. In an operation the user profile information is stored to cloud computing system .

In an operation general information that can be accessed by the one or more media acquisition applications of cloud computing system from the one or more general information devices . . . and new media release information that can be accessed by the one or more media acquisition applications of cloud computing system from the one or more media content provider devices . . . is monitored to provide additional input into the media recommendation process. The general information can include information from news services media guides media reviews weather and traffic patterns health information travel information and other researchable areas that may provide general reference data to assist in determining a recommendation for the user. If a recommendation is not received in an operation processing continues at operation to continuously monitor the one or more media content provider devices . . . and the one or more general information devices . . . for media information that may assist in determining a recommendation for the user in the future.

If a recommendation is received in operation processing continues at operation . A media recommendation is determined based on the stored user profile information and the media source information. The media recommendation may be determined using a number of recommendation techniques and multiple recommendation engines employing the media source information user profile information and user activity. For example data may be scanned from user computing device indicating emails or voice messages from a user named Peggy Sue that may trigger the song recommendation. As another example if weather reports indicate that it has rained in the user s location for the last few days a recommendation for a weather related song may be generated. If it is April 1 and there is no tax software on the user computing device a recommendation to download tax software may be generated. The recommendation engine may include a collaborative filtering model with rules based upon specific media expertise a research model that generates recommendations based upon research conducted on the media tastes of sample groups of participants that match the user s demographic profile recommendations based upon a user s current mood and a hybrid approach that combines the first two methods and cross references available user data and current news and trends to sort the most viable options among the recommendations from both systems.

If an automatic purchase option was selected by the user and included in the user profile information in an operation processing continues at an operation . If an automatic purchase option was not selected by the user and included in the user profile information processing continues at operation . In an operation the determined recommendation is sent to middleware system . In an operation a response is received from middleware system . If a user acceptance of the recommendation is received in an operation processing continues at operation . If a user acceptance of the recommendation is not received in operation processing continues at operation to continuously monitor the one or more media content provider devices . . . and the one or more general information devices . . . for media information that may assist in determining a recommendation for the user in the future.

In operation the recommended media is purchased downloaded from a media content provider device of the one or more media content provider devices . . . using purchasing information provided in the user profile information and if appropriate the budget information and existing media information is updated. In operation the purchased downloaded media is sent to middleware system . Processing continues at operation to continuously monitor the one or more media content provider devices . . . and the one or more general information devices . . . for media information that may assist in determining a recommendation for the user in the future.

With reference to illustrative operations performed by user computing device are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. In an operation a first request for a user to enter information is received. For example the user may access a website using a browser application which causes the first request to be received at user computing device . In an operation the request for information is presented to the user. For example the user may be presented with a series of questions to identify the user s preferences habits likes dislikes media collection etc. In an operation the user information is received. In an operation user authorization information to purchase media automatically and a purchasing budget is received. In an operation user device information is received which may include the type of device the operating system the hardware characteristics of the device etc. and the types of media the user s requests for download to the device. In an operation the received user information the received user authorization information and the received user device information is sent to middleware system in one or more messages. In an operation the media acquisition application is received and installed if necessary at the one or more user computing device s identified by the user device information. After being received and installed if necessary the one or more user computing device s execute media acquisition application .

If a recommendation is received from middleware system in an operation processing continues at an operation . If a recommendation is not received in operation processing continues at an operation . If media is received in operation processing continues at an operation . For example the user may have provided user authorization information to purchase media automatically. The user may set the dollar amounts of specific kinds of media per month based upon available media recommendation and media availability in one or more of the user s devices. The user may provide user authorization information to purchase media automatically based upon media type amount spent timing etc.

If media is not received in operation processing continues at operation to continuously monitor for a recommendation or for receipt of media automatically from middleware system . In operation the recommendation is presented to the user of user computing device for example using output interface . If a user approval to purchase download the media is received in an operation for example using input interface processing continues at operation . If a user approval to purchase download the media is not received in operation processing continues at operation to continuously monitor for a recommendation or for receipt of media automatically from middleware system . In operation the approval to purchase download the media is sent to middleware system . In operation the media is received at user computing device and or at one or more other user device in the appropriate format based on the user device information. Processing continues at operation to continuously monitor for a recommendation or for receipt of media automatically from middleware system .

Media acquisition application may also support operations to organize the media according to the user s device s . The organization of the media may be sorted according to the application guidelines that include different options to sort by media type last played favorites playlist time of day i.e. software has a priority to entertainment media during the work day etc. The organizational interface for the media may be tailored to the requirements of user computing device and any other of the user s devices to which the media is downloaded. Interoperability between media files and devices may result in automated synchronizing of media between the user s devices under control of media acquisition system . A user s desire to have media from one device available on another device in the event of media type incompatibility between devices may be supported by generating a request of a vendor who can supply the desired media file to the desired device to deliver the same content in the preferred media format. This could result in additional charges or surcharges to the user depending on the vendor and rights rules associated with the media. For example the user may request to view a video file on their home television via a media synchronization with a portable wireless device. However the wireless device may not have a hardware configuration robust enough to present an acceptable viewing experience on a large television screen. In such an instance the media could be received from the local cable company or a service that delivers online movie files in a large enough data size to accommodate a large television screen. The user may be prompted about the unavailability of certain media for certain formats and may also be prompted to acknowledge a purchase transaction if the user has not already explicitly accepted terms to supply the media and bill later or to provide credit card purchasing information. If there is a billing issue media acquisition application may prompt the user for a verifiable payment method.

With reference to illustrative operations performed by middleware system are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. Middleware system defines the parameters for returning readable data to computing device using application programming interfaces for example associated with operating system compatibility display capability media player capability etc. In an operation the one or more media acquisition applications are sent to cloud computing system . In an operation the user information is received from user computing device . In an operation the received user information is sent to cloud computing system . In an operation the one or more media acquisition application are sent to the user s computing device s identified in the received user information.

If a recommendation is received from cloud computing system in an operation processing continues at an operation . If a recommendation is not received in operation processing continues at an operation . If media is received in operation processing continues at an operation . If media is not received in operation processing continues at operation to continuously monitor for a recommendation or for receipt of media automatically from cloud computing system . In operation the recommendation is sent to user computing device . If a user approval to purchase download the media is received in an operation processing continues at operation . If a user approval to purchase download the media is not received in operation processing continues at operation to continuously monitor for a recommendation or for receipt of media automatically from cloud computing system . In operation the approval to purchase download the media is sent to cloud computing system . In operation the media is received from cloud computing system . In operation the received media is sent to one or more of the user s devices possibly including user computing device . Processing continues at operation to continuously monitor for a recommendation or for receipt of media automatically from cloud computing system .

The system continues to function on an ongoing basis noting when user computing device is on so that the user can be contacted. In the absence of user computing device being on media acquisition system may send recommendations in emails. The user may instruct media acquisition system to stop generating recommendations at any time to cache the recommendations or to modify the user s settings in any way including unsubscribing from media acquisition system . Media acquisition system can also print traditional mail or courier reminders as a service feature if selected by the user. Thus the user may receive real time recommendations to one or more of the user s computing devices using various communication methods. Some recommendations may be directed to specific devices based on parameters set by the user as part of the user device information.

The recommendation logic systems are persistently subject to evolve and be updated based on data available to media acquisition system . The programming changes can be automated based upon conditions that exist and are computed by cloud computing system . Updated versions of the entire database logic can be exchanged between cloud computing system and middleware system for backup archival or auxiliary use. Media acquisition system may create an affinity program for frequent users. Media acquisition system may charge users for use and or may charge advertisers for access to media acquisition system or integrate a hybrid economic model for use.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits Field Programmable Gate Arrays digital signal processors or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

