---

title: Apparatus and methods of accessing content
abstract: Apparatus and methods for accessing electronic content include a server system, a first communication device, and a second communication device. The server system is operable to receive a marker request initiated by the first communication device, wherein the marker request comprises marker information and data key information. The marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device, and the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. The server system is then operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information and the data key information of the marker request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288245&OS=09288245&RS=09288245
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09288245
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080207
---
The invention relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to a method and system of for managing retrieval of content to a first user terminal marking a location within the content storing the marker on a server and retrieving the content to a second user terminal at the marked location within the content.

Usage of wireless telephone user terminals and other wireless terminals herein user terminal or UT to access various content such as internet ebooks and games has become commonplace. Using a wireless terminal a user can access a remote server to retrieve desired content. In the case of a game or digitally stored reading material such as an ebook the user downloads the content and uses the content. When the user desires to terminate usage of the content the remote server may or may not be notified.

In the case of an ebook or a game the UT can transmit a data key that allows access to the remote server. The UT downloads and stores the ebook game or other content onto the UT. When the user chooses to terminate present access to the content the user may for example close the application accessing the content on the UT. When the user desires to resume access to the content at the point of last access the application on the UT resumes the access at the point of last user access.

However when the user desires to resume use of the content from a second UT the user must download the entire content. More specifically if the user accesses the server to download the content to a second UT the entire content is downloaded without any indication of the place in the content the user was at last access.

System apparatus and method of managing access to or use of electronic content are described. The described aspects allow a user to mark the location where the user desires to later resume the content and store that marker on a server giving the user the ability to switch between devices and resume access to the content at the marked location.

In one aspect a method of managing access to electronic content comprises receiving at a server system a marker request initiated by a first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. The method further includes saving the marker request at the server system and determining a match between a requested content identifier and a requester identifier and the content identifier and the user identifier respectively. The requested content identifier and the requester identifier correspond to a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device. Additionally the method includes initiating a transmission of the marker information from the server system to a content server or to the second communication device if a match is determined wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In another aspect a computer program product for managing access to electronic content comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions. The computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive a marker request initiated by a first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. The computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to save the marker request and at least one instruction for causing the computer to determine a match between a requested content identifier and a requester identifier and the content identifier and the user identifier respectively. The requested content identifier and the requestor identifier correspond to a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device. Additionally the computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to initiate a transmission of the marker information to a content server or to the second communication device if a match is determined wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In a further aspect at least one processor configured to manage access to electronic content comprises a first module for receiving a marker request initiated by a first communication device wherein the marker request comprises marker information and data key information. The marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. The at least one processor further includes a second module for saving the marker request and a third module for determining a match between a requested content identifier and a requester identifier and the content identifier and the user identifier respectively. The requested content identifier and the requester identifier correspond to a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device. Additionally the at least one processor includes a fourth module for initiating a transmission of the marker information to a content server or to the second communication device if a match is determined wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In another aspect an apparatus for managing access to electronic content comprises means for receiving a marker request initiated by a first communication device wherein the marker request comprises marker information and data key information. The marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. The apparatus also includes means for saving the marker request and means for determining a match between a requested content identifier and a requester identifier and the content identifier and the user identifier respectively. The requested content identifier and the requester identifier correspond to a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device. Additionally the apparatus includes means for initiating a transmission of the marker information to a content server or to the second communication device if a match is determined wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In still another aspect a server system for managing access to electronic content comprises a communications module operable to receive a marker request initiated by a first communication device wherein the marker request comprises marker information and data key information. The marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier wherein the communication module is further operable to receive a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device wherein the resume content request comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. The server system also includes a memory operable to save the marker request and a marker module comprising a marker program operable to determine a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier and the content identifier and the user identifier respectively. Additionally the marker module is further operable to initiate a transmission of the marker information from the server system to a content server or to the second communication device if a match is determined wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In an aspect a method of providing electronic content comprises receiving at a content server a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device wherein the resume content request comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. The method also includes sending a resume information request from the content server to a marker server based on the resume content request wherein the resume information request comprises the requested content identifier and the requester identifier. Further the method includes receiving marker information from the marker server based on the marker server determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier and marker information and data key information respectively. The marker information and the data key information correspond to a marker request transmitted by a first communication device wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the method includes transmitting information to the second communication device wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In another aspect a computer program product for providing electronic content comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions. The computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device wherein the resume content request comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Also the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to send a resume information request to a marker server based on the resume content request wherein the resume information request comprises the requested content identifier and the requestor identifier. Further the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive marker information from the marker server based on the marker server determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier and marker information and data key information respectively. The marker information and the data key information correspond to a marker request transmitted by a first communication device wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to transmit information to the second communication device wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In a further aspect at least one processor configured to provide electronic content comprises a first module for receiving a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device wherein the resume content request comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Also the at least one processor includes a second module for sending a resume information request to a marker server based on the resume content request wherein the resume information request comprises the requested content identifier and the requestor identifier. Further the at least one processor includes a third module for receiving marker information from the marker server based on the marker server determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier and marker information and data key information respectively. The marker information and the data key information correspond to a marker request transmitted by a first communication device wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the at least one processor includes a fourth module for transmitting information to the second communication device wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In another aspect an apparatus for providing electronic content comprises means for receiving a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device wherein the resume content request comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Further the apparatus includes means for sending a resume information request to a marker server based on the resume content request wherein the resume information request comprises the requested content identifier and the requester identifier. The apparatus also includes means for receiving marker information from the marker server based on the marker server determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier and marker information and data key information respectively. The marker information and the data key information correspond to a marker request transmitted by a first communication device wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the apparatus includes means for transmitting information to the second communication device wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

Yet another aspect includes a server for providing electronic content. The server comprises a communications module operable to receive a resume content request transmitted by a second communication device wherein the resume content request comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Further the server comprises a content module operable to generate a resume information request based on the resume content request for transmission to a marker server wherein the resume information request comprises the requested content identifier and the requester identifier. Also the communications module is further operable to receive marker information from the marker server based on the marker server determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier and marker information and data key information respectively. The marker information and the data key information correspond to a marker request transmitted by a first communication device wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the content module is further operable to initiate a transmission of information to the second communication device based on the marker information wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In an aspect a method for accessing electronic content comprises accessing stored content at a first communication device and generating a marker request at the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content accessed on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the method includes sending the marker request from the first communication device to a server system for use in subsequently providing access to the content wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on a second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In another aspect a computer program product for accessing electronic content comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions. The computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to access stored content at a first communication device and at least one instruction for causing the computer to generate a marker request at the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content accessed on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to send the marker request from the first communication device to a server system for use in subsequently providing access to the content wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on a second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In a further aspect at least one processor configured to access electronic content comprises a first module for accessing stored content at a first communication device and a second module for generating a marker request at the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content accessed on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the at least one processor includes a third module for sending the marker request from the first communication device to a server system for use in subsequently providing access to the content wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on a second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In still another aspect an apparatus for accessing electronic content comprises means for accessing stored content at a first communication device and means for generating a marker request at the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content accessed on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the apparatus includes means for sending the marker request from the first communication device to a server system for use in subsequently providing access to the content wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on a second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In a further aspect a first communication device for accessing electronic content comprises a memory comprising a presentation manager module and content and a processor operable to execute the presentation manager module to access the content in the memory. The processor is further operable to execute the presentation manager module to generate a marker request wherein the marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content accessed on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Additionally the processor is further operable to execute the presentation manager module to send the marker request from the first communication device to a server system for use in subsequently providing access to the content wherein the marker information is operable to initiate access to the content on a second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device.

In an aspect a method of accessing electronic content comprises transmitting a request to resume content from a second communication device to a server system wherein the request to resume content comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Further the method includes receiving information at the second communication device from the server system in response to the request to resume content wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at a saved state of content on a first communication device based on a marker request generated by the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. The receiving is based on the server system determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier of the request to resume content and the marker information and data key information of the marker request respectively. Additionally the method includes accessing the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In yet another aspect a computer program product for accessing electronic content comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions. The computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to transmit a request to resume content from a second communication device to a server system wherein the request to resume content comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Further the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive information at the second communication device from the server system in response to the request to resume content. The information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at a saved state of content on a first communication device based on a marker request generated by the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Further receiving the information is based on the server system determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier of the request to resume content and the marker information and data key information of the marker request respectively. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to access the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In an aspect at least one processor configured for accessing electronic content comprises a first module for transmitting a request to resume content from a second communication device to a server system wherein the request to resume content comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. The at least one processor further includes a second module for receiving information at the second communication device from the server system in response to the request to resume content. The information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at a saved state of content on a first communication device based on a marker request generated by the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Further receiving the information is based on the server system determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier of the request to resume content and the marker information and data key information of the marker request respectively. Additionally the at least one processor includes a third module for accessing the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In another aspect an apparatus for accessing electronic content comprises means for transmitting a request to resume content from a second communication device to a server system wherein the request to resume content comprises a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. Further the apparatus includes means for receiving information at the second communication device from the server system in response to the request to resume content wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at a saved state of content on a first communication device based on a marker request generated by the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Receiving the information is based on the server system determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier of the request to resume content and the marker information and data key information of the marker request respectively. Additionally the apparatus includes means for accessing the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

In still another aspect a second communication device for accessing electronic content comprises a memory comprising a presentation manager module operable to present content and a processor operable to execute the presentation manager module to transmit a request to resume content to a server system wherein the request to resume content comprises a requested content identifier and a requestor identifier. Further the second communication device includes a communications module operable to receive information at the second communication device from the server system in response to the request to resume content wherein the information is operable to initiate access to the content on the second communication device at a saved state of content on a first communication device based on a marker request generated by the first communication device. The marker request comprises marker information and data key information wherein the marker information represents a saved state of content on the first communication device and wherein the data key information comprises a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Receiving the information is based on the server system determining a match between the requested content identifier and the requestor identifier of the request to resume content and the marker information and data key information of the marker request respectively. Additionally the processor is further operable to execute the presentation manager module to access the content on the second communication device at the saved state of content on the first communication device based on the marker information.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to concisely describing these versions.

In the subject description the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Referring to one aspect of a system allows for managing access to or for using a portion of electronic content on a plurality of user devices. The system comprises a first device and a second device that are communicable with a server which may include a content server a marker server or both. System enables consumption of at least a portion of content by the first device and marking the state of the consumption using marker information and data key information such that the state of the content may be retrieved and consumption resumed on the second device . For example in some aspects the first device is operable to send a marker request to the server where the marker request includes the marker information and the data key information . The marker information represents a saved state of content on the first device and the data key information includes a content identifier corresponding to the content and a user identifier. Subsequently the second device is operable to send a resume content request to server to resume accessing the content . In some aspects for example the resume content request includes a requested content identifier and a requester identifier. The server is operable to determine if a match exists between the requested content identifier and the requester identifier of the resume content request and the content identifier and the user identifier of the marker request respectively. If the server determines a match exists then the server is operable to initiate a transmission of either the marker information or the content in the proper state to enable the second device to access the content at the same state as saved by the first device based on the marker request . Thus system marks the end state of content consumption for subsequent retrieval on the same device or on a different device.

The first device and the second device can be any device that can communicate using any interface and respectively. For example interfaces and may include a wireless interface such as cellular infrared and BLUETOOTH or a wired interface such as a serial cable connection or both. Device and can be for example a smart hand held device such as a mobile or cellular phone a personal data assistant PDA a pager a hand held gaming device or other mini computer. Additionally the devices and can be a smart terminal a laptop personal computer and a desk top personal computer. These examples are not intended to be limiting rather they are common examples of devices having at least an output mechanism such as a readable screen processor memory and user interface such as a keyboard a pointing device and or oral command capability. The second device can be any of the same devices as the first device or the first device and the second device can be different devices.

Further each device and has a respective device capability and . Device capability and may include a hardware capability a software capability or any combination of both. For example a hardware capability or a software capability may include but are not limited to the hardware or software components on the respective device the version of the respective component and one or more component characteristics. Component characteristic may include but is not limited to a performance parameter of the respective component such as a screen size for a display a memory size for a memory an audio synthesizer capability for a speaker a speed of a processor etc. The device capability of first device may be the same as or may be different from the device capability of second device .

The server via interface can communicate with the first device and the second device through a network . The network can be any network usable for communication between the first device the second device and the server including but not limited to telecommunications networks such as terrestrial telephony cellular telephony satellite telephony and packet data based networks such as the Internet. Interface can be wired or wireless as noted above with respect to interfaces and .

Although illustrated as a single server server may include a plurality of servers operable to perform the functionality described herein. For example in some aspects server may include a content server operable to distribute content such as software applications games music files video files ring tones etc. Further for example server may include a marker server operable to store marker information and data key information both relating to the state of content with respect to one or both of first device and second device . As such server may be referred to as content marker server .

The content marker server may include a bus communicatively connecting a processor a memory and a communications interface . In some aspects the memory stores electronic content marker information data key information and a server marker program . The serving program is executable by the processor to serve content to one or both of first device and second device as well as manage the state of content via marker information and data key information .

The processor may be implemented on a programmed general purpose computer on a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller on peripheral integrated circuit elements a programmable logic device or the like. In general any device capable of implementing the steps shown in can be used to implement the processor.

The memory may be implemented using one or more of a hard disk drive static RAM dynamic RAM ROM flash memory CD ROM drive floppy disk drive and the like.

The communication interface may include hardware and software operable to enable content marker server to communicate with other device such as first device and second device across network . Additionally communication interface enables communications between components on content marker server . Further for example communication interface may include a user interface having one or more input mechanisms and one or more output mechanisms. For example an input mechanism may include a keyboard a mouse microphone a voice recognition program etc. and an output mechanism may include a speaker a display a haptic feedback device etc.

In one aspect the system acts as a way for a user to retrieve electronic content onto a first device utilize the content and store on content marker server the marker information . For example in some aspects the electronic content may be an electronic book or ebook a magazine or ezine or any other user readable content such as a newspaper. In other aspects the electronic content can be a game or any other type of software program. Further for example in some aspects the marker information may be an electronic bookmark or any other indicator of a location within the electronic content the user desires to remember. For example the marker information can be equivalent to a physical bookmark that is often used to remind a reader where he stopped reading a paper based book magazine or other document. In other aspects marker information may include an indicator of the last state of the electronic content .

In addition to the marker information data key information is utilized by first device and or second device to retrieve and or store electronic content . For example data key information may include but is not limited to one or any combination of information identifying the electronic content authorizing access to the respective content identifying a format of the electronic content identifying a required or suggested device capability or configuration for use in consuming the electronic content identifying a device capability of a device identified to use the electronic content to enable re formatting of the content etc.

At another time the user accessing the electronic content from the second device is able to retrieve the electronic content along with the marker information that identifies the location within the electronic content previously identified by the user such as the location where the user stopped reading. Further the second device may supply or identify data key information in order to authorize access to the respective electronic content or enable retrieval of the electronic content onto the second device for example in a proper format compatible with second device capability . After utilizing the electronic content the second device can transmit updated marker information and in some aspects updated data key information to content marker server in order to enable future retrieval of the electronic content at the marked point of usage or at the last state of the electronic content .

Thus in some aspects system allows for storing a marked point of consumption of electronic content . In other aspects system allows for saving a state of electronic content . In yet other aspects system allows for the retrieval of electronic content at one device based on a consumption point or state marked by another device. Further system allows for the retrieval of electronic content at one device based on a consumption point or state marked by another device wherein the retrieved electronic content is modified according to a device capability of the retrieving device.

Referring to in some aspects the content marker server may further include a content marker module . In some aspects content marker module enables distribution of electronic content such a with respect to the content server functionality described herein. In other aspects content marker module enables the marking of the last consumption point or state of electronic content such as with respect to the marker server functionality described herein. The content marker module may include or be associated with the server marker program described above and optionally a database . The database may be operable to store the electronic content or a reference thereto the marker information the data key information and device identification information for one or more devices in system as well as the corresponding device capability etc. The content marker module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware computer readable instructions etc. operable to manage the content serving the marking functionality described herein.

Additionally referring to which for simplicity references first communication device first communication device and or second communication device may include a user interface including an input device operable to generate or receive an input into the device and an output device operable to generate and or present information for consumption by the user of the device. For example input device may include at least one device such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input device may provide for user input of a request for content or for user input of marking information. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Output device may generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration etc. and such outputs may be associated for example with the presentation of content .

Further communication device may include a computer platform operable to execute applications to provide functionality to the device and which may further interact with user interface . Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components.

Further computer platform may also include a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. In some optional aspects as indicated by the dashed line such as when first communication device comprises a cellular telephone processor or other logic such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident software components such as voice call data call and media related applications in memory . API may be a runtime environment executing on the respective communication device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of first communication device and the operability of the communication device on communications network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices as well as within and or among components of first communication device . In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processor may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager BLUETOOTH system BLUETOOTH LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM universal subscriber identity module subscriber identity module voice services graphics USB universal serial bus multimedia such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group protocol multimedia GPRS General Packet Radio Service short message service SMS short voice service SVS web browser etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

Computer platform may further include a communications module which enables communications among the various components of first communication device as well as being operable to retrieve content and transmit content requests and marking requests between the first communication device and the content marker server via communications network . Communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications. Further communications module is operable to transmit and or receive information such as electronic content marker information and data key information in accordance with the apparatus and methods described herein.

Additionally in some aspects memory may further store content . Content may comprise text video graphics or animation and in general any data that may be stored on and interacted with by a user of first communications device .

Further in some aspects memory may further store presentation manager module operable to retrieve present and mark an ending point or state of content stored in memory . Presentation manager module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in some aspects presentation manager module may comprise user interface logic operable to interface between user interface and presentation manager module in order to present outputs such as a graphical menu a sound content etc. to the user of the respective device and in order to prompt the user to enter inputs such as a retrieve content request a move within content request such as a scroll a page turn etc. a mark content request a save marker state information request and generally any content retrieval and marking functionality described herein. As such presentation manager module may further include or have access to data key information for use in retrieving electronic content from content marker server . Optionally presentation manager module may further include or have access to device capability in order to retrieve content in a proper format based on the respective device capability or to reformat content for presentation on user interface after retrieval from content marker server . Further presentation manager module may further be operable to transmit a marker request to mark the last use point of use or state of content with respect to device information and or based on device capability .

Additionally in some aspects memory of first communication device may further comprise a monitoring module operable to store a current state of a presentation of content on an on going basis for use by presentation manager module in generating marker information . Monitoring module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in some aspects monitoring module may comprise monitoring logic operable to store the actions of the first communication device with respect to content thereby representing the current state of the content on the first device . The actions of the communication device include data that tracks the state or use point in content .

In the content server may be a server that distributes any type of content such as an e book server that contains e book content. In operation the user using the first device retrieves the content from the content server for example using data key information and or device capability information resident on first device reads a portion of the content and sends marker information and the corresponding data key information to the marker server to enable future initiation of the content at the marked point of state of the content . Subsequently a user using any one of first device second device or Nth device may retrieve the marker information and the corresponding data key information stored on the marker server to re initiate consumption of the content at the marked point or state. In some aspects marker server may utilize device capability information or corresponding to the respective device to enable the content to be formatted for use by the respective device. For example in some aspects marker server may communicate with content server upon the initial or upon subsequent requests for the content to provide the content server with the device capability. Further in other aspects the marker server may acquire and store the content for each device and then transmit the content to the respective device or in a proper format depending on the respective device capability such as or .

Referring to in one aspect a method of operation of system includes a sequence of communications between a user a first device a second device a content server such as an ebook server and a marker server . The message sequence involves a user utilizing content up to a first marked point saving the marked point and subsequently initiating access to the content based on the saved marked point. By way of example a user reads text based content such as an ebook and when the user stops reading at some location within the content the user saves the last read location as a marked location. When the user desires to resume reading the user initiates access to the ebook at the last read location based on the saved marker information. For example if the last read location is the end of a chapter then the initiated access could be at the beginning of the next chapter.

In one non limiting example of using an electronic book or ebook user inputs a content request into first device that generates a message sent by a first device to the content server requesting that a book application be downloaded to the first device . The server receives and processes the message and through message sends the book application to the first device . When the user desires to bookmark a location within the ebook the user through a user interface of the first device inputs a message to mark the ebook location. The first device then sends a message to the marker server to mark the point within the ebook. The message may also contain information identifying the ebook as well as the data key information that authorize a user to access the information. Additionally the data key information may include information about the format of the ebook that is the format may vary depending on the type of user device allowing the user to access the ebook on a different device that requires different formatting.

In some optional aspects the marker server may then sends a message to the content server containing the data key information and or the marker information. In some aspects for example the data key information includes information that identifies where in marker server the marker information can be found or other information regarding the marker point for example the point marked the state of the content the type of the first device device capabilities of the first device and the like. The content server receives the message and stores the information.

Referring to subsequently the user desiring to continue reading the ebook at a second device through a user interface of the second device inputs a message to resume reading. The second device receives the user message and sends a message to the content server to resume reading the ebook. The content server receives the message to resume reading the ebook and utilizes the resident data key and marker information or retrieves the data key and marker information that may be stored on the marker server .

For example the content server sends a message to the marker server to retrieve the marker information and any other related information using the data key information. The marker server receives the message and retrieves the marker information and any other related information and sends this information in message to the content server .

Content server receives message and processes the marker information. The content server then sends message to the second device for example including the content and or containing information about where to resume reading the ebook. It is understood that the message may contain only the portion of the ebook beginning with the bookmarked location. For example if the bookmark is at page 53 paragraph 3 then the message may only contain the ebook beginning at page 53.

Referring to in one aspect a method for managing access to or use of a portion of electronic content on a user device begins with step S and continues to step S. In step S a communications link is established between the first device and a server having content and continues to step S. In step S a determination is made whether new content is to be requested from the server. If new content has been requested the process continues to step S.

In step S the message requesting content is received at the server for processing. Next in step S the requested content is downloaded from the server and sent to the first device. Next in step S the downloaded content is loaded onto the first device and the user uses the content. In step S a determination is made whether to mark the status of the content if no marker information such as a bookmark is to be defined then the process ends at step S. If the content is to be marked then the process continues with step S. In step S the device being used by the user sends a marker message to the server the marker message including the marker related information and data key information. Optionally in the case where separate marker and content servers are utilized at step S the marker server sends at least one of the marker related information and data key information to the content server. Next at step S the server stores the marker related information and data key information and this portion of the process ends at step S.

Returning to step S if there was no request for new content then the process continues to step S. In step S a determination is made whether there is a request to resume consumption of previously obtained content. If there is no request to resume content then the process ends at step S. If there is a request to resume content then the process continues with step S. In this step the request for resuming content may include information identifying the content and identifying the device and or device capabilities of the requesting device.

In step S the server retrieves the marker and data key information for the identified content and or for the identified device. Optionally in the case where separate marker and content servers are utilized at step S the marker server retrieves the marker information and or data key information and sends the marker information and or data key information to the content server. Next in step S the server downloads the requested content based on or with the marker information to the user device and continues to step S where the content is used.

It is understood that this process allows a user to bookmark a place in a content. In some aspects the content is stored on a first server and the bookmark is stored on a second server and that the first server stores information allowing the first server to access the bookmark on the second server. Further it is understood that this process allows the user can resume the content from the same or another user terminal based on the marker information.

It is also understood that in another aspect the content is a game. In this aspect a user from a first user terminal can play a game and place a bookmark of the status of the game on a marker server. At another time the user or another user using the same user device or another user device can access the same game and the bookmark. In this manner the user or another user using the same or different user device can resume the game at the bookmarked point of play and further based on the device capabilities of the respective device.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

