---

title: Terminating a multicast session within a wireless communications network
abstract: A wireless communication system and methods thereof are disclosed. A server (e.g., a push-to-talk (PTT) server) determines a multicast message to be a final multicast message for a multicast session having an indeterminate end time. The server inserts a flag into the multicast message, the inserted flag indicating that the flagged multicast message is a final multicast message for the multicast session. The server sends the flagged multicast message to a communication entity (e.g., a radio access network (RAN), a broadcast serving node (BSN), etc.) supporting the multicast session. The communication entity (e.g., RAN, BSN, etc.) receives the multicast message from the server. The communication entity determines whether the received multicast message includes a flag relating to multicast session termination. The communication entity releases at least one channel associated with the multicast session based on the determining step.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344290&OS=09344290&RS=09344290
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09344290
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080918
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 833 entitled MULTICAST MESSAGING WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Sep. 24 2007 and to Provisional Application No. 61 048 734 entitled METHODS OF TERMINATING A MULTICAST SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Apr. 29 2008 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to methods of terminating a multicast session within a wireless communications network.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 EV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1 EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a wireless communication system and methods thereof. A server e.g. a push to talk PTT server determines a multicast message to be a final multicast message for a multicast session having an indeterminate end time. The server inserts a flag into the multicast message the inserted flag indicating that the flagged multicast message is a final multicast message for the multicast session. The server sends the flagged multicast message to a communication entity e.g. a radio access network RAN a broadcast serving node BSN etc. supporting the multicast session. The communication entity e.g. RAN BSN etc. receives the multicast message from the server. The communication entity determines whether the received multicast message includes a flag relating to multicast session termination. The communication entity releases at least one channel associated with the multicast session based on the determining step.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Again referring to a BCMCS content server not shown makes BCMCS content e.g. push to talk PTT audio packets available within an IP multicast stream. If higher layer encryption is enabled the BCMCS content server may encrypt the stream content.

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the Background section multicast messaging may be performed in a number of ways. In order to better understand embodiments of the present invention a conventional multicast session termination process will be described with respect to . Then multicast session termination processes according to embodiments of the present invention will be described in greater detail.

In the BSN forwards the final multicast message over the BCA connection to the RAN . For example the multicast message is first forwarded to the BSC PCF and the BSC PCF analyzes the multicast group members for the multicast message and forwards the multicast message to each MPT BS serving one or more multicast group members. As discussed above conventionally the BSN cannot distinguish between a final multicast message and non final multicast messages for a given multicast session. Accordingly in the BSN treats the final multicast message in the same manner it would treat a non final multicast message.

After receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN transmits the final multicast message to each target AT over the BCH . As discussed above conventionally the RAN cannot distinguish between a final multicast message and non final multicast messages for a given multicast session. Accordingly in the RAN treats the final multicast message in the same manner it would treat a non final multicast message.

While not illustrated in it is understood that additional steps may first be performed to facilitate the multicast message transmission of . For example the RAN may first transmit a broadcast overhead message BOM to target ATs e.g. on a downlink control channel having a reserved slot for the BOM the BOM including information regarding the BCMCS flow or multicast session associated with the final multicast message. Thus the BOM may instruct the target ATs with regard to how to tune properly to the transmission of the final multicast message. BOMs are well known in the art and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Next in the RAN resets or starts an inactivity timer. In an example while not illustrated in the inactivity timer may be reset or started each time activity is registered at the RAN . For example as used herein activity may include a downlink multicast message for a given multicast session being processed as in .

In the RAN determines whether the inactivity timer exceeds a timer threshold. For example if the inactivity timer is not reset or stopped i.e. by activity such as multicast messaging the inactivity timer will eventually exceed the timer threshold. The timer threshold is established by a system designer and may typically be relatively long e.g. 10 seconds or longer . The timer threshold corresponds to a waiting period for the RAN where the RAN waits for any multicast session activity before tearing down the channels associated with the multicast session. While not discussed in detail within this application a multicast session with a known end time e.g. a music video stream etc. or determinate multicast session need not deploy an inactivity timer because the end time of a determinate multicast session is indicated to the BSN and RAN such that the final multicast message is known to be final and the channels associated reserved for the multicast session may be torn down e.g. made available reallocated etc. immediately without waiting for the inactivity timer to expire.

Once the inactivity timer is determined to exceed the timer threshold the RAN tears down or releases the BCA connection to the BSN for the given multicast session associated with the final multicast message in . Likewise in the BSN tears down the BCA connection at its end responsive to . The RAN also tears down or releases the BCH for the given multicast session . The tearing down or releasing of and is well known in the art and is typically performed with messaging defined in EV DO standards and as such will not be described in further detail for the sake of brevity.

As described above with respect to the process of the BSN and the RAN typically have no way of knowing when a multicast session is going to end for certain types of multicast communications i.e. indeterminate multicast sessions . For example a push to talk PTT session is typically an indeterminate multicast session that does not usually have a designated end time or termination time for the session. Accordingly the BSN and RAN rely upon multicast session inactivity as an imperfect indicator for indicating when an indeterminate multicast session has ended. To reduce false positives the inactivity timer is set to a relatively long period of time which is inefficient in the sense that channels reserved for a multicast session that has ended must wait for the inactivity timer to reach the timer threshold before being released or becoming available for other communication flows.

In the application server inserts a flag into the final multicast message. The flag is intended to convey to a communication entity such as the BSN in that the multicast message including the flag is a final multicast message. In an example the flag may be inserted by setting or adjusting a differentiated service code point DSCP value of the multicast message. In an example the application server and BSN may agree to use a particular DSCP value to indicate a final message status and the application server sets the DSCP value to the particular or predetermined DSCP value in . However it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the flag need not be limited to a DSCP value and in alternative embodiments the flag may constitute any portion of the multicast message. Next in the application server sends the flagged final multicast message to the BSN .

In the BSN receives the final multicast message from the application server and forwards the final multicast message to the RAN over the BCA connection. For example the final multicast message is first forwarded to the BSC PCF and the BSC PCF analyzes the multicast group members for the multicast message and forwards the multicast message to each MPT BS serving one or more multicast group members. Upon receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN transmits the final multicast message to each target AT over the BCH .

While not illustrated in it is understood that additional steps may first be performed to facilitate the multicast message transmission of . For example the RAN may first transmit a broadcast overhead message BOM to target ATs e.g. on a downlink control channel having a reserved slot for the BOM the BOM including information regarding the BCMCS flow or multicast session associated with the final multicast message. Thus the BOM may instruct the target ATs with regard to how to tune properly to the transmission of the final multicast message. BOMs are well known in the art and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In the BSN checks the DSCP value of the multicast message. In the BSN determines whether the received multicast message is a final multicast message based on the DSCP value. If the RAN determines that the DSCP value is set to final message status in the process advances to . Otherwise if no flag or DSCP final status value is determined to be present in the BSN takes no further action for determining multicast session termination and while not shown in the conventional inactivity timer is used by the RAN to determine when the multicast session has ended.

Typically the last packet of a multicast session is a signaling packet indicating the end of a call e.g. to the target ATs which actually decode the multicast message . For a given call the RAN and or BSN may assign different BCMCS Flow IDs to media flows e.g. including data such as video and or audio data and signaling flows e.g. which include control type signaling etc. . Accordingly in an example steps and only need be performed for signaling flow packets.

In the BSN tears down or releases the BCA connection s for both media and signaling flows to the RAN for the given multicast session associated with the final multicast message in after forwarding the final multicast message to the RAN . For example the BCA connection may be released by the BSN immediately after . Likewise in the RAN tears down the BCA connection s for both media and signaling flows at its end responsive to . The RAN also tears down or releases the BCH s for the given multicast session . Accordingly the BCA and BCH channels associated with the given multicast session for the final multicast message may be released or be made available much sooner than in the conventional art which must wait for an inactivity timer to expire. Accordingly the efficiency of the wireless communication system is increased.

In the application server inserts a flag into the final multicast message. Generally corresponds to of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. The application server then sends the flagged final multicast message to the BSN .

In the BSN receives the final multicast message from the application server and forwards the final multicast message to the RAN over the BCA connection. For example the final multicast message is first forwarded to the BSC PCF and the BSC PCF analyzes the multicast group members for the multicast message and forwards the multicast message to each MPT BS serving one or more multicast group members.

Upon receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN transmits the final multicast message to each target AT over the BCH . While not illustrated in it is understood that additional steps may first be performed to facilitate the multicast message transmission of . For example the RAN may first transmit a broadcast overhead message BOM to target ATs e.g. on a downlink control channel having a reserved slot for the BOM the BOM including information regarding the BCMCS flow or multicast session associated with the final multicast message. Thus the BOM may instruct the target ATs with regard to how to tune properly to the transmission of the final multicast message. BOMs are well known in the art and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In the RAN checks the DSCP value of the multicast message. In the RAN determines whether the received multicast message is a final multicast message based on the DSCP value. If the RAN determines that the DSCP value is set to final message status in the process advances to . Otherwise if no flag or DSCP final status value is determined to be present in the process advances to of and the conventional inactivity timer is used to determine when the multicast session has ended.

As discussed above typically the last packet of a multicast session is a signaling packet indicating the end of a call e.g. to the target ATs which actually decode the multicast message . For a given call the RAN and or BSN may assign different BCMCS Flow IDs to media flows e.g. including data such as video and or audio data and signaling flows e.g. which include control type signaling etc. . Accordingly in an example steps and only need be performed for signaling flow packets.

In the RAN tears down or releases the BCA connection s for both media and signaling flows to the BSN for the given multicast session associated with the final multicast message in . Likewise in the BSN tears down the BCA connection s for both media and signaling flows at its end responsive to . The RAN also tears down or releases the BCH s for the given multicast session in . Accordingly the BCA and BCH channels associated with the given multicast session for the final multicast message may be released or be made available much sooner than in the conventional art which must wait for an inactivity timer to expire. Accordingly the efficiency of the wireless communication system is increased.

Further while are directed to embodiments wherein a DSCP value is used as a flag to indicate a final message status to either the BSN or the RAN it will be appreciated that the conventional timer based final status determination can be used in parallel with the processes of . In other words a reset inactivity timer can be used as a fail safe process in case for example the DSCP value includes an error or is otherwise unable to convey final message status to the RAN and or the BSN . Thus the conventional manner e.g. as in of tearing down the BCA connection effectively becomes the worst case scenario if the conventional reset inactivity timer is used in conjunction with embodiments of the present invention.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

