---

title: Adaptive web mining of bilingual lexicon
abstract: Embodiments for the adaptive mining of bilingual lexicon are disclosed. In accordance with one embodiment, the adaptive mining of bilingual lexicon includes retrieving one or more bilingual web pages, wherein each of the bilingual web page including a search term and one or more additional terms. The adaptive mining also includes forming a plurality of candidate translation pairs for each of the terms and extracting one or more translation layout patterns from the plurality of candidate translation pairs. The adaptive mining further includes deriving a term translation in a second language for the search term. The term translation being derived based on a hidden conditional random field (HCRF) model that includes the one or more candidate translations, the one or more translation layout patterns, and one or more additional features. The term translation is further stored in a lexicon repository.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08306806&OS=08306806&RS=08306806
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08306806
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081202
---
Many multi lingual applications such as machine translation or cross language information retrieval software require bilingual lexicon to produced desired translation results. However manually compiled bilingual dictionaries are often inadequate to serve this purpose due to their limited coverage. For example machine translation or cross language information retrieval software may be unable to correctly translate a first term written in a first language to a second term of the same meaning in a second language due to the fact that the first term is not in the presently used bilingual dictionary. Such terms may be referred to as Out Of Vocabulary OOV terms. These OOV terms may severally deteriorate the quality of a machine translated document or drastically hinder the ability of cross language information retrieval software to retrieve relevant data.

With a sharp increase of bilingual pages web pages with content in at two or more languages web mining of term translations that is a term in a first language proximately located to a translation of the term in a second language can greatly alleviate this problem. Current web mining methods may rely heavily on co occurrence statistics. However such methods are often unreliable in extracting low frequency term translations or term translations that occur only in a few web pages on the World Wide Web. Such unreliability is generally due to the fact that low frequency term translations are often hard to find using search engines as well as due to the fact that low frequency term translations are more likely to be subject to noise during mining. Since the majority of term translations available on the Web are in fact low frequency term translations current web mining methods are ill suited for large scale mining.

In other instances some web mining methods may manually define a set of pattern rules to extract term translations from web pages as layout patterns of term translations on a single web page tend to occur in similar patterns. However a major problem of these methods is that the layout patterns of term translations may vary from web page to web page so that the use of a fixed set of pattern rules cannot cover all bilingual web pages and often extract noise from non bilingual pages.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that is further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Described herein are embodiments of various extraction technologies for adaptively learning extraction pattern rules of each bilingual web page to facilitate the mining of bilingual lexicon that is term translations from a plurality of web pages. The various implementations may regard term translation mining on the bilingual web page as a sequence labeling task and conditional random field CRF techniques may be employed to solve the sequence labeling tasks. Further since a bilingual web page may have multiple patterns the adaptively learned pattern rules from a bilingual page are treated as a hidden variable in the CRF which is then referred to as Hidden Conditional Random Field HCRF . With HCRF the extraction technologies are able to accommodate multiple extraction patterns in the same page so that the mining precision and recall are further improved and the manual definition of pattern rules may be avoided.

In one embodiment the adaptive mining of bilingual lexicon includes retrieving one or more bilingual web pages wherein each of the bilingual web pages includes a search term and one or more additional terms. The adaptive mining also includes forming a plurality of candidate translation pairs for each of the terms and extracting one or more translation layout patterns from the plurality of candidate translation pairs. The adaptive mining further includes deriving a term translation in a second language for the search term. The term translation is derived based on a hidden conditional random field HCRF model that includes the one or more candidate translations the one or more translation layout patterns and one or more additional features. The term translation is further stored in a lexicon repository.

Other embodiments will become more apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

This disclosure is directed to a translation mining application that adaptively mines bilingual lexicon from web pages on the World Wide Web also referred to herein as the Web . A translation mining application in accordance with the embodiments is able to adaptively learn pattern rules of translation pairs in each bilingual web page. As used herein bilingual web page refers to a web page that includes words in at least two different languages e.g. a predominately Chinese web page that is interlaced with English words . However bilingual web page as used herein may also include a web page that comprises words in more than two languages provided that the web page includes words in at least two languages of interest e.g. a predominately Chinese web page that is interlaced with both English and French words .

Generally a translation pair refers to a pair of terms that consists of a first language term and a corresponding second language term that has the same or similar meaning. A pattern rule defines the placement of the first language term to the corresponding second language term of the same or similar meaning in a particular web page. For example Hello Hola is a translation pair where Hello is in the first language English and Hola is in the second language Spanish . Moreover in this example the pattern rule may be the fact that a term in the first language Hello is separated from a term of the same meaning in the second language Hola by a space and an opening prentice . In another example Goodbye Au revoir is another translation pair where Goodbye is in the first language English and Au revoir is in the second language French . Likewise the pattern rule for this particular translation pair is that the term in the first language Goodbye is separated from a term of the same meaning in the second language Au revoir by a colon punctuation mark and a space .

Thus the ability to adaptively learn pattern rules of translation pairs may provide good coverage and precision in finding the correct translation pairs and eliminate the need to manually determine and define pattern rules. Additionally a translation mining application in accordance with the various embodiments is configured to regard term translation mining on each bilingual web page as a single sequence labeling task to be solved by conditional random field CRF . Moreover since a bilingual web page may have multiple patterns the adaptively learned pattern rules from a bilingual web page may be treated as a hidden variable in the CRF resulting in a hidden condition random field HCRF . Thus with the use of HCRF the translation mining application is able to accommodate multiple extraction patterns in the same bilingual web page. In turn mining precision and extraction of the appropriate translation for a term may be further improved. Various examples of adaptive web mining of bilingual lexicon in accordance with the embodiments are described below with reference to .

The computing device may include software application components such as a search engine a Hidden Conditional Random Field HCRF translation extraction module and a lexicon repository that perform adaptive web mining of bilingual lexicon. Generally speaking mining term translations from the Web involve two main steps 1 locate bilingual web pages that hold translation pairs and 2 extract term translations from the bilingual web pages. These steps may be accomplished by the search engine and the translation extraction module .

In various embodiments the search engine may use the network to transmit a query to the Web whereby the query is for bilingual web pages that contain the search term . In some embodiments the search term may be a term in a first language that is to be translated to a second language. For example a user may provide a query that includes the actor name Tobey Maguire as the search term when the user desires to find a Chinese translation of the actor s name in English.

In other embodiments the search term may be a translation pair. For example when a user is unsure of a particular second language translation of a term in a first language the user may input the term and the translation as a translation pair. In such an example the user may be unsure of the translation because the translation is a literal translation that the user constructed after consulting an ordinary bilingual dictionary. Thus the literal translation may or may not be a completely accurate translation and or a commonly accepted translation. A search term that is a Chinese English translation pair for the English movie title Spider Man is illustrated in .

In additional embodiments the search term may be paired with trigger words . The trigger words are words that may trigger the search engine to specifically include bilingual web pages in queries. For example but not as a limitation when the search engine is used to query the Web for a Chinese translation of the English name search term Tobey Maguire the user who initiated the query may include the trigger words English and Chinese translation to better target the query to look for bilingual web pages that may contain a translation pair of the English name Tobey Maguire and its Chinese counterpart in Chinese characters shown in . However it will be appreciated that a search term query as well as the supplement of a search term with trigger words may be carried out in any language to achieve the desired result.

The search engine may find one or more bilingual web pages that match the query that includes search term and optionally the trigger words . Subsequently the search engine may retrieve the one or more bilingual web pages over the network as downloaded web pages . In various embodiments the one or more retrieved bilingual web pages may be downloaded to a data storage cache of the computing device . Following the download the HCRF translation extraction module may use Hidden Conditional Random Field in combination with adaptive pattern rule learning to extract a term translation or a translation for the search term from the downloaded web pages . Term translation extraction generally involves the extraction of a second language translation that has the same meaning as the search term of the first language. As further described below the HCRF translation extraction module may extract the new translation by using the fact that a particular bilingual web page generally contains other first language terms in addition to the search term . Following the extraction of the translation the computing device may save the translation into a special portion of its data storage cache such as the lexicon repository for later use.

In further embodiments the computing device may be configured to further provide the translation back into the search engine as a seed pair to query for new translation pairs. The use of translation as a seed pair may lead other related translation pairs on the previously found bilingual web pages and or on additional bilingual web pages . In these embodiments the feeding of translation as a seed pair back into search engine may be repeated recursively for a predetermined number of cycles or repeated recursively until no additional translations for the search term may be found.

The memory may store program instructions. The program instructions or modules may include routines programs objects components and data structures that cause components of computer to perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The selected program instructions may include a HCRF translation extraction module that includes a candidate selection component a HCRF computation component and a pattern extraction component . The selected program instructions may further include a HCRF model a search engine module a user interface module and a data storage module .

The various modules of the computing device may be configured to perform a term translation extraction. Term translation extractions are described below with respect to Chinese English bilingual web pages that contain predominately Chinese text with sporadically interlaced English terms. However it will be appreciated that the various modules of computing device may be configured to perform term translation extraction on a variety of other bilingual web pages where the bilingual web pages include a first language text and interlaced terms in a second language. For example but not as a limitation these other bilingual web pages may include bilingual web pages that are predominately English with some Chinese terms predominately English with some Spanish and predominately French with some English as well as other bilingual combinations.

The candidate selection component may be configured to identify a set of potential candidate translations for terms of interest in a bilingual web page. The terms of interest may include a term present in the bilingual web page that matches the search term of a query or one or more additional terms present in the bilingual web page that are of the same language as the search term .

For example given a predominately Chinese web page containing some English words a continuous English word sequence may be set as an English term T. Further for each T the candidate selection component may locate a set of potential candidate translations that contains the Chinese word also referred to as a Chinese term sequence Tthat is the translation for T. It will be appreciated because the majority of Chinese words are poly syllabic a single Chinese word is constructed from multiple Chinese characters in many instances.

In some instances the total number of Chinese word sequences on a Chinese English bilingual web page such as bilingual web page is quite large. However given that in most cases the Chinese translation is close to T the candidate selection component may select only the Chinese characters within one or more finite context windows around Tto generate a set of candidate translations. This selection via finite context window is shown in

In instances where a plurality of English terms are spaced closed together in a bilingual web page the candidate selection component may select Chinese characters into overlapping context windows as candidate translations for the plurality of English terms. This overlapping selection may be common since translation pairs often appear together as clusters in text blocks as shown in

Once the candidate selection component has selected the Chinese characters within one or more finite context windows around an English term T the candidate selection component may generate the set of candidate translations for the English term Tbased on the selected Chinese Characters. Such a generation process is illustrated in

Returning to once the candidate translations are generated the candidate selection component may store the candidate translation into the data storage module .

The HCRF computation component may be configured to select the most plausible translation for a search term from the set of candidate translations generated by the candidate selection component . Moreover the HCRF computation component may provide an indicator such as not available N A when the HCRF computation component determines that none of the candidate translations are fit to be the plausible translation for the search term . Accordingly in mathematical terms the work performed by the HCRF computation component may be regarded as a classification problem. In this classification problem if the set of all candidate translations and N A as the possible classes the HCRF computation component is essentially asked to select the class with the highest probability. This may be illustrated as follows argmax 1 Where c T T . . . T N A.

During processing the HCRF computation component may leverage several constraints and correlations between translation pairs that are present on a bilingual web page such as one of the bilingual web pages . In various embodiments the HCRF computation component may be configured to take advantage of the fact that translation pairs in a bilingual web page typically share the same layout pattern. Thus the pattern of a known translation pair may help identify other translation pairs.

To take advantage of similarities in the layout patterns the HCRF component may learn adaptive patterns from a bilingual web page. The adaptive learning of layout patterns may be based on extraction from each candidate translation pair i.e. the combination of a term and one of its candidate translations a set of candidate layout patterns from which the one or more true layout patterns may be selected. In at least one embodiment the HCRF computation component may employ the pattern extraction component to extract from each candidate pair a set of candidate layout patterns.

The pattern extraction component may be configured to extract candidate layout pattern from candidate translation pairs. For the purpose of discussion the extraction of layout patterns by the pattern extraction component is illustrated with respect to English terms and Chinese candidate translations. However it will be appreciated that the pattern extraction component may be configured to work on a variety of other bilingual translation pairs e.g. English Spanish English German etc. .

In various embodiments given a candidate translation pair of an English term and a Chinese candidate the pattern extraction component may first convert the English term and the Chinese candidate into token and . The pattern extraction component may also save representations i.e. punctuation marks letters characters etc. between the tokens and in their original form. An example of such as a conversion is illustrated in

Further with respect to the representation that are prior to and adjacent the candidate translation pair the pattern extraction component may determine whether or not the representation is a delimiter that is a representation that is not a Chinese Character English word or HyperText Markup Language HTML . If the pattern extraction component determines that the representation is a delimiter the pattern extraction component may save the delimiter in its original form. However when the representation is an English word or one or more Chinese characters the pattern extraction component may convert the respective representations into the tokens and . This conversion of candidate translation pairs into candidate layout patterns is illustrated in an example of

As shown in an exemplary candidate translation pair may include the Chinese characters that surround the English term TVB . Accordingly the pattern extraction component may derive the candidate layout pattern . The candidate layout pattern may include the token for the Chinese candidate translation as underlined in candidate translation pair the token for the English term TVB of candidate translation pair . Additionally since the representation before the underline portion of the candidate translation is not a delimiter the pattern extraction component may use the token to designate the representation. Further the representation of candidate translation that is between the Chinese candidate translation designated by and the English term designated by is saved in its original form.

In other embodiments the pattern extraction component may also save HTML tags into candidate layout patterns. For example but not as a limitation the pattern extraction component may save a link reference as .

When one or more candidate layout patterns have been extracted from a bilingual web page the HCRF computation component may match a candidate translation pair to each of the candidate layout patterns. In various embodiments the HCRF computation component may initially match a first language term in the candidate translation pair with a corresponding token in the candidate layout pattern and match a second language term in the candidate translation pair with a corresponding token in the candidate layout pattern. Subsequently the representations between the first language and second language terms may be matched with their corresponding counterparts in the candidate layout pattern. Further the representations prior to and adjacent to the candidate translation pair may be matched to a corresponding token in the candidate layout pattern. If all the portions of the candidate translation pair are capable of being matched with counterparts in the candidate layout pattern then the HCRF computation component may consider the candidate translation pair to match the particular candidate layout pattern.

For example but not as a limitation when the candidate translation pair includes a English term and a Chinese term the English term may be matched with the token of the candidate layout pattern and the Chinese term may be matched with the token of the candidate layout pattern. The representations between the English term and the Chinese term may be matched with their corresponding counterparts in the candidate layout pattern. The tokens or may be matched with one or more Chinese characters or one or more English words respectively that are prior to and adjacent the candidate translation pair. Assuming all the portions of the English Chinese candidate pair match the candidate layout pattern the HCRF computation component may deem the candidate translation pair to match the particular candidate layout pattern. As further described below the HCRF computation component may integrate the process of pattern extraction with the candidate translation selection process.

In additional embodiments the HCRF computation component may be further configured to leverage the fact that a second language term in a bilingual web page generally does not serve as a translation for more than one first language term that is present in the bilingual web page. For example a Chinese word such as C could be a candidate translation for multiple English terms when they are close enough to have overlapping context windows. In this example if C is known to be the translation for one of the English terms the HCRF computation component may be constrained so that other English terms shall not take C or any Chinese word overlapping with C in its context window as its translation. In some embodiments the HCRF computation component may also take advantage of spatial order of the translation pairs. For example if an English term Eoccurs after another one E then E s translation should appear after E s translation.

The HCRF computation component may leverage these constraints and correlations by modeling term translation extractions from a bilingual web page as sequence labeling on all second language terms i.e. terms in the non dominant language of the bilingual web page . In such a model each translation candidate may be regarded as a possible label for a second language term and translation extraction may be formulated as choosing the most likely path of labels. The use of sequence labeling to obtain term translations is further illustrated in .

For example a predominately Chinese first language bilingual web page may include the English second language terms Sam Rimi Kirsten Dunst and Mary Jane Watson . As described above the candidate selection component may generate a set of candidate translations for each of the English terms. As shown the candidate selection component may generate a set of candidate translations for the English term a set of candidate translations for the English term and a set of candidate translations for the English term .

Accordingly the HCRF computation component may form a plurality of label sequences via combination. In the example shown in the HCRF computation component may combine the candidate translation of the English term the candidate translation of the English term and the candidate translation of the English term as a label sequence . Likewise as shown label sequence and label sequence may be similarly constructed by the HCRF computation component with the use of a candidate translation for each of the English terms . It will be appreciated that label sequences and are merely illustrative and that in various embodiments the HCRF component may form a plurality of other label sequences by which each label sequence is formed by combining a candidate translation for each of the terms. In at least one embodiment the HCRF computation component may form label sequences via all possible combinations of the candidate translations wherein each label sequence includes one candidate translation for each original term.

Following the formation of label sequences the HCRF computation component may use the HCRF Model to determine which label sequence includes the most probable term translations for the terms In other words the HCRF computation component may determine which one of the label sequences is the most likely path of labels via the use of sequence labeling.

In order to use sequence labeling to obtain term translations the HCRF computation component may employ Hidden Conditional Random Field HCRF derived from Conditional Random Field CRF as a formalism to solve the sequence labeling problem.

Generally speaking CRF defines the conditional probability of a label sequence S given an input sequence X which may be represented as 

Accordingly the HCRF computation component may employ a HCRF model that uses a modified Condition Random Field CRF to process the text on the bilingual web pages as observed data. The purpose of the HCRF model is to label translations or N A for the sequence of second language terms e.g. English terms in predominately Chinese bilingual web pages from their candidate translation sets.

The HCRF model may include one or more features that are used for term translation extraction. In some instances two terms are likely to be translations if many of their composing words are translations according to an existing bilingual dictionary. Accordingly a score may be derived by dividing the number of word pairs found in the dictionary by the total number of words of both terms. The derived score also referred to as a dictionary score may serve as feature of the HCRF model .

The HCRF model may also include a feature referred to as transliteration score. The transliteration score is useful for personal names location and organization etc. that are transliterated based on pronunciation rather than meaning. In at least on embodiment the transliteration probability of a pair Sand Smay be defined as 3 where A is the alignment of their sound letters cand c. P c c is the transformation probability of the aligned sound letters and is estimated via an Expectation Maximization algorithm on a collection of proper name transliteration pairs. For example in one embodiment the collection may include a collection of 592 607 proper name transliteration pairs.

The HCRF model may further include a feature that is referred to as a length similarity. Length similarity is based on the fact that a length of a term is often proportional to that of its translation. The normalized length difference x y of the terms x and y may be considered to be normal distribution N 0 1 . Accordingly 

Web co occurrence may also be a feature of the HCRF model . Accordingly the HCRF model may employ a search engine such as search engine to search the Web for snippets e.g. text blocks of predetermined lengths that include second language terms of a bilingual web page. The returned snippets are examined for the occurrence of the candidate translation. Thus the more frequent the occurrence of the candidate translation in the snippets the more likely that it is the true translation of the second language term.

The product of symmetric conditional probability SCP and context dependency CD referred to as SCPCD may be included as another feature of the HCRF model . The purpose of the SCPCD is to identify the lexical boundaries of terms. SCP may be defined as follows 

The CRF model may also include a feature known as context similarity. Context similarity is based on the idea that the term and its translation should have similar context in their own languages. The context vector is constructed by collecting the context words weighted by their tf idf scores in monolingual search snippets. The similarity between a query term s and the translation candidate t may be estimated with the cosine measure of their context vectors cosine 7 In various embodiments the context similarity may be complementary to the web co occurrence feature when co occurrence count of the pair is low.

The translation feature which is another feature that may be included in the HCRF model is aimed to capture the non overlapping and spatial order constraints between translation pairs. For example but not as a limitation given T as the selected translation of the previous English term this feature indicates whether the translation candidate for the current English term appears after Ton the page. If yes a value of the feature is set to 1 and if the current English term overlaps with T or appears before it the feature value is set to 1.

The HCRF model in this example can learn from training data that most of the labeled term translation pairs comply with the constraints and therefore infer that pairs violating the constraints will receive a penalty. The only exception is the case of N A. If an English term chooses N A the selected translation of the previous English term is then used for the next English term to compute its transition feature. This process may be recursive in case the previous English term also chooses N A. For all terms choosing N A the HCRF computation component may save the label of the previous terms.

As described above the HCRF computation component may employ Hidden Conditional Random Field HCRF as encapsulated to in the HCRF model to process the text on the bilingual web pages as observed data.

The extension of CRF into HCRF involves the introduction of a hidden variable h to represent the pattern used for translation on a bilingual page. The use of hidden variables eliminates the need for a priori pattern classification. Rather the hidden variable h s value can be chosen from a finite set of extracted candidate patterns so that all candidate patterns have the potential of influencing term translation extraction. In various embodiments the HCRF model may accommodate multiple valid patterns on a single page and avoid taking prudent classification over patterns.

In the HCRF model the conditional probability of a sequence of translation labels such as one of the labels sequences and shown in may take the form 

The pattern feature in the HCRF model may be defined as taking the pattern probability calculated by a Maximum Entropy ME model if the pair fit the pattern as the value of h or 0 if it does not fit h. The parameter of the HCRF model may be trained by the following objection function 

The annotated data for the training of the HCRF model consists of bilingual web pages where the sequences of translation pairs are manually labeled. Since the pattern h is a hidden variable it not necessary to explicitly label patterns in the training data. Efficient inference is dynamic programming similar to CRF with an additional summation over features involving hidden variables.

The search engine module may be configured to provide a web search engine such as the search engine . In various embodiments the web search engine module may include an application interface that enables it to conduct searches via an existing publicly available web search engine e.g. Live Search provided by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Google of Mountain View Calif. Yahoo Search provided by Yahoo of Sunnyvale Calif. etc. . In other embodiments the search engine module may be configured to provide a custom web search engine.

The user interface module may interact with a user via a user interface not shown . The user interface may include a data output device such as a display and one or more data input devices. The data input devices may include but are not limited to combinations of one or more of keypads keyboards mouse devices touch screens microphones speech recognition packages and any other suitable devices or other electronic software selection methods.

The user interface module may be configured to enable a user to provide input to the search engine module that includes a search term trigger words to be used with the search term as well as whether and the number of times the derived translation results are to be used recursively for performing additional searches. Additionally the user interface module may be further configured to cause the display to output translation results as extracted by the HCRF translation extraction module to the user.

The data storage module may be configured to store data in a portion of memory e.g. a database . In various embodiments the data storage module may include the lexicon repository and may be further configured to store downloaded web pages as well as candidate translation pairs candidate layout patterns feature data for the HCRF model and training data for the HCRF model . The data storage module may also be configured to store any additional data derived the search term and the downloaded web pages such as any intermediary data produced by the HCRF translation extraction module .

At block the search engine may retrieve one or more bilingual web pages from the Web. The translation term search may be implemented via the search engine using a search term. In some embodiments the search term may be in a first language that is to be translated to a second language. In other embodiments the search term may be a translation pair that includes a first word or phrase in a first language and a second word or phrase that is a suspected translation in a second language for the first term. In additional embodiments the translation term search may be implemented on the search engine using a combination of the search term with trigger words. The trigger words may include words that specifically trigger the search engine to retrieve bilingual web pages that include the search term.

At block the candidate selection component may be configured to select a set of candidate translations for the search term as well as candidate translations for additional terms that are in the same language as the search term from a bilingual web page. In various embodiments the candidate selection component may construct the set of candidate translations for each term by deriving combinations of words or characters that are selected via a context window.

At block the HCRF computation component may compute one or more features that facilitate term translation extraction. In various embodiments the one or more features computed by the HCRF computation component include at least one of a dictionary score a transliteration score length similarity distance proximity web co occurrence a product of symmetric conditional probability SCP and context dependency CD context similarity and transition feature.

At block the pattern extraction component may extract one or more candidate layout patterns from each candidate translation pair. The candidate layout patterns may be used by the HCRF computation component to influence term translation extraction.

At block the HCRF computation component may apply the HCRF model that includes a hidden variable h and takes into account one or more of the computed features. The hidden variable h may represent the translation layout patterns used by the translation pairs on the bilingual web page. The hidden variable h s value may choose from the finite set of candidate patterns as extracted by the pattern extraction component so that all candidate patterns have the potential of influencing term translation extraction. The HCRF model may accommodate multiple valid patterns on a single page. By using the HCRF model that includes the hidden variable h that takes into account one or more of the computed features the HCRF computation component may compute a probability for each sequence of translation labels as containing the most likely translations.

In various embodiments the HCRF model may be trained prior to being applied by the HCRF computation component . In at least one embodiment the data for training the HCRF may include of bilingual web pages where the sequences of translation pairs are manually labeled.

At block the HCRF computation component may derive term translation pairs based on the probability for each sequence of translation labels. In at least one embodiment the HCRF computation component may select the translation label sequence with the highest computed probability to derive the term translation terms. For example referring back to the HCRF computation may have computed that the probability of label sequence containing the most likely translations is higher than the probabilities of label sequence and translation label sequence . Accordingly the HCRF computation component may pair the candidate translation with the term Sam Raimi pair the candidate translation with the term Kirsten Dunst and pair the candidate translation with the term Mary Jane Watson .

At block the data storage module may store one or more derived translation pairs into a database such as the lexicon repository wherein each translation pair includes an original term and the most probable candidate translation. In some embodiments the data storage module may be configured to only store the translation pair that includes the original search term. However in other embodiments the data store module may be configured to store every translation pair derived.

In various embodiments the data storage module may enable the retrieval of the one or more stored translation pairs via the user interface module so that a term translation for the original term of a translation pair may be presented to a user through a user interface. For example but not as a limitation at least one of the term translation and the original term may be presented to a user as part of a bilingual web search results and or a document translation.

At decision block the HCRF translation extraction module may determine whether there are one or more additional retrieved bilingual web pages to be processed for obtaining further translations of the original term. If the HCRF translation extraction module determines there are additional bilingual web pages are to be processed yes at decision block the process may loop back to block where an additional bilingual web page may be processed.

However if the HCRF translation extraction module determines there are no additional bilingual web pages to be processed no at decision block the process may continue to decision block .

At decision block the HCRF translation extraction module may determine whether the one or more derived translation pairs should be used to recursively seed a new retrieval. In various embodiments the decision to seed a new retrieval may be based on whether a predetermined number of recursive cycles have been met or whether all bilingual web pages containing the original search term of a particular translation pair have been retrieved.

If the HCRF translation extraction module determines that a new bilingual web page retrieval should be performed yes at decision block the process may loop back to block where additional bilingual web pages may be retrieved using at least one of the previously derived translation pairs. However if the HCRF translation extraction module determines that no new retrieval should be performed no at decision block the process may terminate at block .

In a very basic configuration Computing system typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . The operating system includes a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API such as but by no means limited to that of the .NET Framework manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The device is of a very basic configuration demarcated by a dashed line . Again a terminal may have fewer components but will interact with a computing device that may have such a basic configuration.

Computing system may have additional features or functionality. For example Computing system may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by Computing system . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing system may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and are not discussed at length here.

Computing system may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. These networks may include wired networks as well as wireless networks. Communication connections are some examples of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules etc.

It is appreciated that the illustrated Computing system is only one example of a suitable device and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the various embodiments described. Other well known computing devices systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor base systems set top boxes game consoles programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and or the like.

The integration of translation term extraction with the adaptive learning of multiple extraction patterns in bilingual web page may improve translation term mining and recall while reducing the need to manually define translation term layout pattern rules. Moreover the use of sequence labeling via Hidden Conditional Random Field HCRF to extract term translations may increase mining precision. Thus embodiments in accordance with this disclosure may improve the efficiency of translation term extraction for bilingual web pages.

In closing although the various embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended representations is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed subject matter.

