---

title: System and method for providing service correlation in a service access gateway environment
abstract: A network service access gateway is described that provides service correlation for incoming and outgoing invocations. The service requests can be received to the gateway from telecommunication mobile devices as well as from external service provider applications. A first service request can be received to the gateway and processed. The service correlation identifier (SCID) of the request can be persisted within the gateway prior to forwarding the request to the recipient. When a second and related service invocation is later received to the gateway, the two invocations can be associated based on the SCID. Based on the association, various custom functionality can be performed, such as invoking the charging system to treat the multiple services as a single unified transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143540&OS=09143540&RS=09143540
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09143540
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 047 694 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING SERVICE CORRELATION IN A SERVICE ACCESS GATEWAY ENVIRONMENT filed on Apr. 24 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The current invention relates generally to telecommunications and service gateways and more particularly to correlating service calls and invocations within a service access gateway.

With the ever increasing popularity of the World Wide Web more and more previously unrelated technologies are becoming integrated with the enormous network of information and functionality that the internet provides. Everything from television and radio to books and encyclopedias are becoming available online amongst a wide variety of other technologies. One such area of technology is telephony and the related telecommunications services.

Conventionally telecommunications and network infrastructure providers have relied on often decades old switching technology to providing routing for network traffic. Businesses and consumers however are driving industry transformation by demanding new converged voice data and video services. The ability to meet these demands can often be limited by existing IT and network infrastructures that are closed proprietary and too rigid to support these next generation services. As a result telecommunications companies have been transitioning from traditional circuit switched Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTN the common wired telephone system used around the world to connect any one telephone to another telephone to Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP networks. VoIP technologies enable voice communication over vanilla IP networks such as the public Internet. Additionally a steady decline in voice revenues has resulted in heightened competitive pressures as carriers vie to grow data service revenues and reduce churn through the delivery of these more sophisticated data services. Increased federal regulation security and privacy issues as well as newly emerging standards can further compound the pressure.

Delivering these more sophisticated data services has proved to be more difficult than first imagined. Existing IT and network infrastructures closed proprietary network based switching fabrics and the like have proved to be too complex and too rigid to allow the creation and deployment of new service offerings.

While the worlds of TCP IP applications and of telephony networks continue to converge the relationship between them has often been overly complex and difficult to manage for various organizations as well as for consumers. In recent times specialized telecommunication servers and various service gateway applications have emerged to enable simpler ways for developers to include telephony based functionality in their software applications as well as provide increased security and stability. Nevertheless these specialized solutions continue to need improvements in performance generally required by network operators and demanded by their subscribers. As an example a desirable feature within this context is the ability to associate various atomic operations in telecommunications network.

The invention is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. References to embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one. While specific implementations are discussed it is understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough description of the invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention.

Although a diagram may depict components as logically separate such depiction is merely for illustrative purposes. It can be apparent to those skilled in the art that the components portrayed can be combined or divided into separate software firmware and or hardware components. For example one or more of the embodiments described herein can be implemented in a network accessible device appliance such as a server or a router. Furthermore it can also be apparent to those skilled in the art that such components regardless of how they are combined or divided can execute on the same computing device or can be distributed among different computing devices connected by one or more networks or other suitable communication means.

In accordance with the embodiments of the invention there are provided mechanisms and methods for maintaining service correlations within a service access gateway. The service gateway can be deployed by a telecommunications provider in order to manage access by various applications to its network and its various subscriber clients. In one embodiment a service invocation request can be received from a third party application or from a client device to the service gateway. This service invocation can have a service correlation identifier SCID associated therewith. In one embodiment the SCID can be set by the third party application. Alternatively the SCID can be set by another entity such as the telecommunications provider an application executing on a subscriber client device or can be generated by the service gateway.

Once the invocation is received the service correlation identifier can be retrieved and persisted into an event data record EDR by the service access gateway. These event data records can contain various types of information associated with the service requests going through the gateway including information regarding which service calls were correlated with each other. In one embodiment the service correlation identifier can be retrieved from the simple object access protocol SOAP header of a web service request transmitted by an application. The SCID can then be captured and stored into a request context. The request context can maintain metadata associated with the request in the service access gateway. In another embodiment the SCID can be read from the metadata associated with a request transmitted by a client subscriber. In any event the request can be forwarded by the service access gateway to the recipient component so that is can be handled thereon.

Subsequently another service invocation can be received to the service gateway. This new service invocation may or may not be technically related to the first service invocation. In the event that the two calls are related the service access gateway can associate the two requests based on the service correlation identifier. An application programming interface API is provided for an external entity to invoke a customized service correlation service in order to perform various customized functionality based on the correlation of the two or more service calls. Additionally in the event that the service call was received from the client device the SCID can be attached to the SOAP header prior to forwarding the request to the service provider application.

In various embodiments the service correlation feature described above can be used to create associations among various atomic operations within the telecom service network and to invoke desired functionality based on those associations. As an example a telecommunications operator may wish to combine and correlate series of SMS messages MMS messages and mobile location lookups and treat the series of communications as a single transaction e.g. a single charge . This could be used to create a service that receives an SMS from a subscriber performs a user location lookup on the subscriber and based on the location sends out some content to the subscriber in the form of an MMS. One illustration of this is a mobile user that sends an SMS to an application asking for a particular restaurant place nearest to his her current location. The application can then make a terminal location request to find the user s current location look up the address of the closest restaurant that fits the criteria and then sends the user an MMS with all the appropriate information map directions etc. . In order to charge correctly for the delivery of this type of service it would be desirable for the operator to correlate the SMS with the user location request and the MMS. This can be done via the service correlation identifier described above.

Various alternative scenarios are possible and can make use of the ability to correlate services within a service gateway. For example a combinational transaction could be created where the user looking at an online map can send a text message and a picture s to another user. As another example a third party application may wish to associate a short message service SMS text message with a response to that SMS message in order to allow the application to track the status of the message and whether it was received. Yet another use case can be combining requests with responses and allowing them to be treated as single unified transactions. A multitude of other uses and implementations will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art based on the correlation of services within the telecom service gateway.

In various embodiments the service correlation can be implemented in a network gatekeeper application built on top of a JAVA 2 Enterprise Edition J2EE compliant application server. The network gatekeeper can provide a policy driven telecommunications web services gateway that allows granular control over access to network resources from un trusted domains. In one embodiment the network gatekeeper can be an application deployed by a telecom provider in order to manage access to its network by the third party services that are offered to the various subscribers of the telecom provider.

As an illustration most operators and telecommunication providers expect to drastically increase the portfolio of services offered to their customers to hundreds and even thousands of content and application offerings. While some of these services may be developed in house and thus be deployed on an internal network the vast majority of such services will likely come from third party service providers and partners. This creates a need to handle the network and application integration with such third party services as well as manage the entire ecosystem to the satisfaction of the consumers. The network gatekeeper application can provide a secure common entry point for third party applications accessing network resources both through telecom web services interfaces and through policy based secure and extensible network interfaces. In one embodiment the network gatekeeper can include a service level agreement SLA based policy enforcement engine which can enforce third party partner SLA policies at runtime. It can also enable network operators to dynamically customize partner SLA data and access rules to fit traffic prioritization models and the capacity of each individual network node.

Additionally the network gatekeeper can provide rich traffic management and shaping features as described throughout the present disclosure. This can allow operators to create deterministic traffic management solutions distribute traffic internally throughout the network and increase the availability and reliability of services.

The network gatekeeper can be deployed on the telecom operator network in multiple tiers of deployment a stateless access tier and a stateful network tier. In one embodiment the two tiers implement a firewall in between them for greater security. The stateless access tier can serve as an entry point for possibly un trusted third party applications into the network. The network tier which integrates with the internal network can be shielded from the applications by the access tier.

In various embodiments the service correlation can be implemented within the network tier of deployment. As a request comes into the access tier of the network gateway from an application the handler handling the request can inspect the request context and retrieve the service correlation identifier SCID . In one embodiment the request context includes various data associated with the request received to the gateway including the SCID. It should be noted that the system need not specifically implement the request context and that any other object that contains or specifies data associated with the service invocation can be used. It should also be noted that the service correlation feature can also be implemented with invocations received from subscriber clients from the internal network of the telecom provider as will be illustrated in other portions of this disclosure.

Once the SCID is retrieved at the access tier it can be placed into the work context of the network gateway. In one embodiment the work context is an object provided by the application server in order to contain data flowing through the various components of the gateway. It can be used to define properties as application context which implicitly flow across remote requests and allow downstream components to work in the context of the invoking client. Work contexts allow developers to pass properties without necessarily including them in a remote call. A work context is propagated with each remote call allowing the called component to add or modify properties defined in the work context similarly the calling component can access the work context to obtain new or updated properties. In the present embodiment the SCID is placed in the work context after it has been retrieved from the request.

A work context listener can be implemented within the network tier to read the work context and to retrieve the SCID. Once it obtains the SCID the listener can call out to an extensible application programming interface API provided by the network gateway in order to perform some specific functionality based on the service correlation feature. This allows the telecom operator or a third party application developer to retrieve the SCID and to use it in performing a customized function such as charging the billing system based on the correlation of the messages and requests. In order to perform the desired functionality the application developer can implement the API provided and can also extend it to suit the particular needs. In cases where the API is not implemented the listener can merely return the SCID before invoking the appropriate network plug in for the request. In either case the gateway can allow service requests and responses to flow uninterrupted through the gateway while capturing the correlation amongst various service calls and allowing customized functionality to be invoked based on that correlation.

In one embodiment the information in the request context including the SCID is included in every event data record EDR where the request context is accessible. Event data records are created or written to whenever a particular transaction takes place within the service access gateway. In various embodiments the EDRs can be used to capture the information processed by the gateway. This information can then be used to track analyze debug and create various new applications that integrate with the network.

The figures described below illustrate the service correlation features in various contexts. It should be noted however that the components illustrated in the figures are not intended to limit the scope these embodiments and are provided purely for purposes of illustration and explanation.

The network gatekeeper provides a policy driven telecommunications Web services gateway that allows granular control over access to network resources from un trusted domains. This service gateway application can be deployed by a telecom provider in order to manage access to its internal network and its subscribers by external third party service provider applications.

As illustrated by way of example an embodiment of a network gatekeeper layer provides an easy to use integrated configuration driven intermediary between service providers third party service providers and end users . The communications platform of a typical telecom organization can comprise an application layer with interfaces to applications of the service providers and third party service providers and a network layer to interface with the end users via one or more network resource elements . The communications platform can further comprise a gatekeeper layer interposed between the application layer and the network layer for managing and controlling information flowing between layers and .

At the application layer third party service providers and service providers are provided protocol adapters to make services available to callers over a network via the gatekeeper layer provided by the communications platform . Access to network resource elements by services may be achieved using one or more web services protocol adapters . The protocol adapters provide an interface mechanism enabling the network gatekeeper to intercept protocol communications from services and control access to network resource elements by the services in accordance with one or more policies. While illustrated here with reference to an embodiment having adapters to specific protocols including without limitation a Short Message Peer to Peer protocol SMPP protocol adapter a Push Application Protocol PAP protocol adapter a Multimedia Messaging Services MM7 protocol adapter and an Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP protocol adapter embodiments may include any number or kind of protocols and are neither limited to nor required to possess these illustrated protocol adapters.

The gatekeeper layer includes a gatekeeper that comprises a plurality of functional elements working in concert to control access to network resource elements at the network layer by services according to one or more policies. In an embodiment a service level agreement SLA comprises one or more policies governing access to the network layer . A policy engine provides enforcement of the service level agreements. Service level agreements specify e.g. how many messages a service provider sends per hour and if over a contract limit the service provider may start paying additional licensing to the telecom provider. In one embodiment capabilities to create customize and execute service level agreement provisions as policies are provided. A charging mechanism determines charges to callers for making a call using network resource elements e.g. determine charges for network traffic i.e. calls according to charging information payment amount schedule priorities and the like. Charging mechanism may access data including Call Data Records CDR and or Event Data Records EDR in order to determine charges. In one embodiment the charging mechanism determines an allocation of charges to be apportioned to the third party providing the service. As shown by the dotted lines in the actions of the policy engine and other functional elements of the gatekeeper provide virtual isolation layers between services at the application layer and network resource elements at the network layer . The isolation layers indicate that the gatekeeper layer functional elements can be isolated from and unaffected by the particulars of protocols interfaces and the like used by applications services and callers communicating using the network via the gatekeeper .

The gatekeeper layer may include one or more resource interfaces to interface with legacy protocols or other web services protocols as a mechanism to reach callers and end user applications clients via the network layer . While illustrated here with reference having resource interfaces to specific protocols including without limitation an SMPP protocol adapter a PAP protocol adapter an MM7 protocol adapter and an IMAP protocol adapter embodiments may include any number or kind of protocols and are neither limited to nor required to possess these illustrated resource interfaces. An extension toolkit not shown enables partners to develop resource interfaces for other protocols to include into the gatekeeper layer .

Network layer includes one or more resource elements such as without limitation a Parlay protocol gateway an IMS IP multi media subsystem an SMSCs short message service center and MMSCs multi media messaging service center each of which provides a mechanism for moving information through the network to one or more end user services .

Tools for interacting with Web Services such as a Web Service Universal Description Discovery Interface WS UDDI a Web Service Business Process Execution Language WS BPEL may also be coupled to the network gatekeeper in various embodiments. A log trace and database can assist with troubleshooting. In some deployments the network gatekeeper can interface with processes that monitor underlying network function such as Operations Support Systems Business Support Systems OSS BSS system via RA protocol adapters. RA protocol is a protocol for submission of billing information that are maintained in the network gatekeeper and sent to a carrier s existing billing infrastructure. Embodiments can include one or more of the following services OSS BSS services. For example and without limitation Operations Support Systems services can include activation service assurance usage metering and provisioning including designing assigning and inventory. Business Support Systems can include billing including invoicing rating taxation and collections customer management including order entry customer self services customer care trouble ticketing and customer relationship management. Such interfaces can provide access to Operation Administration and Maintenance OAM applications and others. A policy engine can control access by one or more third party services and services to resource elements in a network layer.

As illustrated the network gatekeeper can be deployed in two tiers an access layer cluster and a network layer cluster having a firewall in between. The access tier is the entry point for third party applications into the operator s network. The purpose of the access tier is to provide a first level of protection from malicious applications and other potential threats against the integrity of the operator s network. In one embodiment the access tier can be distributed across multiple access tier servers having an application server software deployed thereon. The web services stateless container can be implemented on top of the application server allowing the access tier to receive requests into the access tier.

The network tier which integrates with the operator s network is shielded from applications by the access tier . The communications between the access tier and the network tier can be over the Parlay X Web Services as remote method invocations RMI . The network tier can be comprised of multiple network tier servers . In one embodiment stateless session beans SLSBs can be deployed on the network tier servers. In addition the network tier can include the translation logic components for translating the communications into specific network protocols as previously described.

Each tier can be scaled individually by adding new servers. In one embodiment each server in each tier is running in an active mode.

The deployment can additionally include a data tier with databases or some other forms of persistent storage. Furthermore the operator s network typically provides a short messaging service center SMSC and a multimedia messaging service center MMSC to the various subscribers. The SMS center and the MMS center are responsible for handling the SMS operations and the MMS operations respectively of a wireless network. For example when an SMS message is transmitted by a mobile phone it reaches the SMS center which can then forward the message to the recipient. In various embodiments the main duties of the SMSC and the MMSC are to route various messages and to regulate the process.

As illustrated a mobile originated message can be received from the subscriber network of the telecom provider. In this embodiment the message is initiated by a mobile client device such as a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or some other device. However in alternative embodiments the message can be initiated by an external application that provides various services to the subscribers of the telecom operator e.g. an AMERICAN IDOL voting application a FACEBOOK application etc. .

As shown the message enters the service access gateway at the network tier . If the message is technically related to another service invocation within the gateway a custom service correlation service can be invoked from the Aspects layer. For example if the service correlation ID of the message matches the SCID of another service invocation previously processed by the access gateway the custom service correlation service is invoked. This service can perform various customized functionality based on associations among services by implementing an extensible API. If the API has not been implemented the service correlation service can merely return the value that was sent to it.

Following the illustration the message next enters the northbound access tier interface of the gateway. At this northbound interface the message can be translated into the appropriate protocols and APIs e.g. Web Services in order to be processed by the service provider application. For example at the access tier the SOAP handler can be invoked which inserts the SCID into the SOAP header of the request prior to passing the message to the external application .

Similarly to the illustration in a network originated message can be received from a mobile client . The message is processed at the network tier at which point the custom service correlation service can be invoked. In this particular illustration however the custom correlation service accesses a database and according to a method name that will be called the service name and or the credentials it can set the SCID accordingly. This can be performed by implementing a custom API provided by the access gateway which can invoke the custom functionality illustrated herein. In addition because the SCID is captured in the EDRs of the gateway the information can also be retrieved from this source.

The message can then continue to be processed in a similar manner to that illustrated in by invoking the SOAP handler from within the access tier which inserts the SCID into the SOAP header of the web service request. The message can then be appropriately forwarded to the service provider application .

As illustrated the service invocation is received to the gateway from the subscriber network of the telecom provider. At the network tier the appropriate plug ins and their implementations can be selected in order to enable communications between the mobile devices of the subscriber network and the external applications . For example southbound plug ins can provide translation for communicating with the network clients via protocols such as MM7 SMPP OSA Parlay and the like. The northbound plug ins on the other hand can provide translation for Web Services Parlay X EWS and the like.

In one embodiment at the northbound plug in layer an external invocation factory can be invoked which accesses a customized implementation. As illustrated this custom implementation is called doNothing Factory . If implemented the factory can execute custom functionality based on the service correlation feature.

Continuing with the illustration the message passes through the access tier edge . At this point it can be determined if the service correlation ID exists in the request context . If it does the service correlation ID can be placed into the SOAP header and forwarded to the application via access tier Parlay X . If no such SCID is found the message can be merely forwarded without manipulating the SCID.

As illustrated a service invocation can be initiated by the external service provider application . For example the application may have received an SMS message from a subscriber and based on this message it is initiating a user location lookup invocation. In this embodiment the application initiated request comes into the network gateway through the access tier Parlay X Web Services . If the SCID is included in the SOAP header the SCID can be read and placed into the work context . This allows the various components of the service access gateway to gain access to the SCID. The request can then be routed along the access tier edge into the network tier. At the north plug in layer the external invocation factory and its implementation can optionally invoked. If the custom APIs are not implemented this external factory may not perform any particular function. Alternatively the external invocation factory can manipulate data e.g. charge the billing system or perform other custom functionality based on the association of services in the gateway.

The application initiated request can then be routed along to the appropriate southbound plug ins and implementations in order to convert the request into the format understandable by the devices in the telecom subscriber network .

As shown in step a service invocation is received to a service access gateway. This service invocation has a service correlation identifier SCID associated therewith. In step the SCID is persisted in the service access gateway. In one embodiment the SCID can be recorded in an event data record EDR . In alternative embodiments the SCID can also be persisted in various other ways such as storing the SCID in a work context or other component. In step the service invocation is forwarded to the intended recipient.

In step a second service invocation is received to the access gateway wherein the second service invocation is related to the original service invocation. In one embodiment the second invocation can contain an identical SCID as the first invocation. In step the second service invocation is associated with the first service invocation according to the correlation identifier.

As shown in step a network gateway is maintained between the service provider applications and the telecom subscriber network. In step an SMS originating in the subscriber network is received to the access gateway. In step an external source can be invoked which generates the service correlation ID for the SMS. In one embodiment the source can be an external custom object residing outside of the gateway. In step the correlation ID of the SMS is persisted within the access gateway before forwarding the SMS to the recipient.

In step a user location lookup request is received to the gateway from an external application. In one embodiment the lookup request can have the same service correlation ID SCID as the SMS. In step the SMS is then associated with the user location lookup request. The correlation ID is also persisted within the gateway and a custom API can be invoked to perform functionality based on the association of the two service invocations.

In step an MMS can be received from the external application. This MMS can contain multimedia content directed to the subscriber that initiated the first SMS message. In one embodiment the MMS will have the same SCID associated therewith. In step the MMS can be associated with both the prior SMS and the user location lookup. Optionally the custom API can once again be invoked in order to perform specified function such as updating the billing system charges for the processing of all three requests. As an illustration the provider may choose to combine these three service invocations into a single transaction and to bill one charge for all three messages. Of course various other use cases are also possible and the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to this or any other specific use case.

In various aspects the embodiments previously described encompass computer apparatus computing systems and machine readable media configured to carry out the foregoing methods. In addition to an embodiment consisting of specifically designed integrated circuits or other electronics the present invention may be conveniently implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art.

Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

The present invention includes a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a computer to perform any of the processes of the present invention. The storage medium can include but is not limited to any type of rotating media including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs microdrive and magneto optical disks and magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data.

Stored on any one of the machine readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems virtual machines and user applications.

Included in the programming software of the general specialized computer or microprocessor are software modules for implementing the teachings of the present invention including but not limited to providing mechanisms and methods for providing service correlation as discussed herein.

Various embodiments can be by way of example and without limitation used in conjunction with services such as 

Basic features. These include standards services such as Voice mail Caller ID Call waiting and call forwarding the ability to forward a call to a different number .

Call logs The ability to view calls made over a given period of time online ability to associate names with phone numbers integrate call log information to other applications such as instant messaging IM .

Do not disturb The ability to specify policies around receiving calls for example all calls during office hours to be automatically forwarded to a mobile terminal all calls during the night to be directed to voice mail etc.

Locate me This is advanced call forwarding. Rather than have all calls forwarded to a single location e.g. voice mail when the caller is busy Locate me can try multiple terminals in series or in parallel. For example a user may have two office locations a mobile and a pager and it may make sense to forward a call to both office locations first then the pager and then the mobile terminal. Locate me is another example of feature interaction.

Personal conferencing A user could use an existing application e.g. IM client to schedule a Web audio conference to start at a certain time. Since the IM client already has personal profile information the conferencing system sends out the Web conference link information either through IM and or email to the participants. The phone contact information in the profile is used to automatically ring the participants at the time of the conference.

Lifetime number This is the facility where a single virtual number can travel with a customer wherever they live. Even if they move the old number continues to work and reaches them at their new location. This is really the analog of static IP addresses in a phone network.

Speed dial This is the ability to dramatically expand the list of numbers that can be dialed through short key and accelerator combinations. This is another example of a converged application since it s very likely that when a user will set up this information when they work through the call logs on the operator user portal and the updated information needs to be propagated to the network side in real time.

Depending on the service level agreement users are willing to sign up to the quality of media delivered e.g. of frames per second will vary. The policy engine enables segmenting the customer base by revenue potential and to maximize return on investment made in the network.

A typical example here is the need for applications that have a short lifetime extremely high usage peaks within their lifetime and immediacy. For example voting on American Idol during the show or immediately afterwards has proved to be an extremely popular application.

This class of applications is one that combines wireline and wireless terminal usage scenarios. An example of an integrated application is the following a mobile terminal user is on a conference call on their way to work. When he reaches his office he enters a special key sequence to transfer the phone call to his office phone. The transfer happens automatically without the user having to dial in the dial in information again. It s important to note hear that this capability be available without the use of any specific support from the hand set a transfer button for example .

As previously described herein the term service level agreement SLA is an agreement concerning a measurable level of service between a service provider and a service consumer. The SLA can include or define a number of items including but not limited to bandwidth request processing delay and other parameters. In one embodiment an SLA is implemented as one or more extensible markup language XML files. In various embodiments the terms service and web service are used interchangeably and are intended to be broadly construed to include any application program or process resident on one or more computing devices capable of providing services to a requester or other recipient including without limitation network based applications web based server resident applications web portals search engines photographic audio or video information storage applications e Commerce applications backup or other storage applications sales revenue planning marketing forecasting accounting inventory management applications and other business applications and other contemplated computer implemented services. As used herein the term application broadly includes any data entry update query or program that processes data on behalf of a user. Users may be human or computational entities.

As used herein the term web services protocol is defined as a communications protocol that can be used for providing services between two or more applications over a network. Typical web services protocols include without limitation Short Message Peer to Peer protocol SMPP protocol Push Application Protocol PAP protocol Multimedia Messaging Services MM7 protocol and Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP protocol. As used herein the term legacy protocol is defined as a communications protocol implemented by existing applications or telecommunications systems. As used herein the term policy is defined as a computational object including information for enforcing a limitation a decision or otherwise causing a control point to take some action or refrain from taking some action to shape traffic.

As previously mentioned the various embodiments include a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a general purpose or specialized computing processor s device s to perform any of the features presented herein. The storage medium can include but is not limited to one or more of the following any type of physical media including floppy disks optical discs DVDs CD ROMs microdrives magneto optical disks holographic storage ROMs RAMs PRAMS EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs paper or paper based media and any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or information. The computer program product can be transmitted in whole or in parts and over one or more public and or private networks wherein the transmission includes instructions which can be used by one or more processors to perform any of the features presented herein. In various embodiments the transmission may include a plurality of separate transmissions.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations can be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

