---

title: Media services devices and methods
abstract: A media services device including a display device configured to present user-selectable options corresponding to video-on-demand services, and a video-on-demand application server component configured to provide the video-on-demand services responsive to user selection of the options.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537916&OS=09537916&RS=09537916
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09537916
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 758 046 filed on Jun. 5 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 814 174 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 933 136 filed on Sep. 2 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 103 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 693 789 filed Oct. 20 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 804 708 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 214 987 filed on Jun. 29 2000 each of which are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates in general to television systems and more particularly to the field of media on demand.

With recent advances in digital transmission technology cable television systems are now capable of providing much more than the traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming the home communication terminal HCT otherwise known as the settop box has become an important computing device for accessing video services and navigating a subscriber through a maze of available services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality digital HCTs or DHCTs now also support an increasing number of two way digital services such as video on demand.

Typically a DHCT is connected to a cable or satellite television network and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at the client s site. Preferably some of the software executed by a DHCT is downloaded and or updated via the cable television network. Each DHCT also typically includes a processor communication components and memory and is connected to a television or other display device such as a personal computer. While many conventional DHCTs are stand alone devices that are externally connected to a television a DHCT and or its functionality may be integrated into a television or personal computer as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

There are two complementary phenomena occurring in cable and satellite networks increasing DHCT performance and increasing network bandwidth. DHCTs with more memory faster CPUs etc. are more capable of performing application tasks than their predecessors. Hence more powerful applications can execute on the DHCT client. Second the latest network technologies enable more bandwidth and throughput of data from the server to the client effectively allowing more of the application computation and data storage to take place on the server. Thus there currently exist cable and satellite television networks with older more resource constrained HCTs and newer more powerful DHCTs. Additionally these HCTs exist in networks with differing bandwidth capabilities.

A headend unit comprising one or more servers receives media and data from service providers via a plurality of network interfaces such as satellite terrestial telephone and the internet A headend unit server process receives media and data and then transmits media and data to one or more DHCTs. Since there are various types of DHCTs with differing computing and communication capacities the server process must convert and output media and data that is limited by the computing and communication capacities of the less capable DHCTs in the network.

If a network is to contain a mixture of HCTs with different performance capabilities one of the following must typically be true 1 the more powerful applications are only available to the set of customers with the higher performing DHCTs 2 multiple versions of the application software each with different features and functionality must be provided for each different HCT or 3 the software and data that is provided to the DHCTs is limited in capability to that of the least common denominator so that all of the authorized DHCTs are capable of executing the provided software and storing the provided data effectively and efficiently. Each of these has unattractive results for the system operator unhappy customers wasted network bandwidth complex management systems or wasted DHCT capability and lost revenue. Therefore there exists a need to take better advantage of DHCTs computing resources via a more flexible application software architecture that supports and adapts to HCT resource and performance capabilities.

Additionally as the network bandwidth increases the features and functionality of application software can increase by taking advantage of computation and storage that can be done on the server in the headend. However networks with different bandwidth and throughput capabilities exist such that an application software vendor might have to develop distribute and maintain different versions of the application to execute on the different networks. Thus there exists a need for an application framework that can adapt to different network capabilities avoiding the need for multiple versions of the application from having to be developed and deployed. And there is a need to support multiple DHCT types concurrently in a network with an architecture that coordinates media and data processing so that more resource capable DHCTs experience less latency in data access from the network by localizing media and data processing within their confines and so that they can also present users with a more comprehensive and rich media and data presentation.

An embodiment of a system includes a media services device including a display device configured to present user selectable options corresponding to video on demand services and a video on demand application server component configured to provide the video on demand services responsive to user selection of the options.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The present invention is generally implemented as part of a cable television system CTS . Hence an illustrative CTS and its operation will be described initially. shows a block diagram view of a CTS which is generally a high quality reliable and integrated network system that features video audio voice and data services to cable television subscribers. Although depicts a high level view of a CTS it should be appreciated that a plurality of cable television systems can tie together a plurality of regional networks into an integrated global network so that cable television subscribers can receive content provided from anywhere in the world.

The CTS delivers broadcast video signals as digitally formatted signals in addition to delivering traditional broadcast analog video signals. Furthermore the system can support one way broadcast services as well as both one way data services and two way media and data services. The two way operation of the network allows for subscriber interactivity with services such as Pay Per View programming Near Video On Demand NVOD programming according to any of several known NVOD implementation methods View on Demand VOD programming according to any of several known VOD implementation methods and interactive applications such as internet connections and Interactive Media Guide IMG applications.

The CTS also provides the interfaces network control transport control session control and servers to access content and services and distributes content and services to cable television subscribers. As shown in a typical CTS comprises a headend hubs an HFC access network and subscribers digital home communication terminals DHCTs . It should be appreciated that although a single components e.g. a headend is illustrated in a CTS can feature a plurality of any one of the illustrated components or may be configured with alternative embodiments for any one of the individual components or with yet other additional components not enumerated above. A content provider not shown transmits media content to a headend for further transmission to subscribers downstream in the network.

Content provided by a content provider is communicated by the content provider to one or more headends . From those headends the content is then communicated over a communications network that includes a plurality of HFC access networks only one HFC access network is illustrated . The HFC access network typically comprises a plurality of HFC nodes each of which may serve a local geographical area. The hub connects to the HFC node through a fiber portion of the HFC access network . The HFC node is connected to a tap which is connected to a network interface unit NIU which is connected to a DHCT . The NIU is a normally located on the side subscriber s premises and provides a transparent interface between the HFC node and the subscribers internal wiring. Coaxial cables are typically used to couple nodes taps and NIUs because the electrical signals can be easily repeated with radio frequency RF amplifiers.

As the high level operation of CTSs is well known to those of skill in the art further description of the overall CTS of will not be contained herein. It will be appreciated however that the CTS shown in is merely illustrative and should not be construed as implying any limitations upon the scope of the present invention.

The DNCS provides complete management monitoring and control of the network s elements and broadcast services provided to users. In one implementation the DNCS uses a data insertion multiplexer and a data QAM to insert in band broadcast file system BFS data into an MPEG 2 transport stream that is broadcast and received via DHCT s communication interface and tuner system . The DNCS also contains a session manager that uses Digital Storage Media Command and Control DSMCC protocol to set up and maintain MOD sessions. The session manager processes user to network U N session signaling messages manages allocation of session related network resources supports network management operations acts as a point of contact to the network for the DHCT s in the network to establish individual sessions and supports MOD services by providing the signaling interface to establish maintain and release client initiated exclusive sessions.

A service application manager SAM server is a server component of a client server pair of components with the client component being located at the DHCT . Together the client server SAM components provide a system in which the user can access services which are identified by an application to run and a parameter such as particular data content specific to that service. The client server SAM components also manage the life cycle of the applications on the system including the definition activation and suspension of services they provide and the downloading of the applications into the DHCT as necessary.

Applications on both the headend and the DHCT can access the data stored in a broadcast file system BFS server in a similar manner to a file system found on operating systems. The BFS server is a part of a broadcast file system that has a counterpart BFS client module in a DHCT connected to the network . The BFS server repeatedly sends data for applications on a data carousel not shown over a period of time in cyclical repeated fashion so that a DHCT that is in need of reading any particular data file or parts thereof may receive it when requested by a user or one or more of its internal running processes.

A VOD content manager is responsible for managing the content on the VOD content servers . The MOD server application controls both the VOD content manager and the VOD content servers and utilizes them to help deliver the video and audio streams that make up VOD services. In one embodiment an MOD content manager and MOD content servers not shown could run respectively in parallel to the VOD content manager and VOD content servers to manage other types of on demand media content. In an alternate embodiment an MOD content manager replaces the VOD content manager and the MOD content servers replaces the VOD content servers . The QAM modulators that comprise the QAM group receive the MPEG 2 transport streams from the VOD content servers convert them into encrypted RF signals at a specified frequency channel and transmit them to a DHCT via the network .

The QPSK modem is responsible for transporting the out of band IP internet protocol datagram traffic between the distribution headend and a DHCT . Data from the QPSK modem is routed by headend router within the headend . The headend router is also responsible for delivering upstream application traffic to the various server applications .

The DHCT may also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces also called ports for receiving and or transmitting data to other devices. For instance the DHCT may feature USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet for connection to a computer IEEE 1394 for connection to media devices in an entertainment center serial and or parallel ports. The user inputs may for example be provided by a computer or transmitter with buttons or keys located either on the exterior of the terminal or by a hand held remote control device or keyboard that includes user actuated buttons.

In one implementation the DHCT includes system memory which includes flash memory and dynamic random access memory DRAM for storing various applications modules and data for execution and use by the processor . Basic functionality of the DHCT is provided by an operating system that is primarily stored in flash memory . Among other things the operating system includes at least one resource manager that provides an interface to resources of the DHCT such as for example computing resources.

One or more programmed software applications herein referred to as applications are executed by utilizing the computing resources in the DHCT . Applications stored in flash memory or DRAM are executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of the operating system . Data required as input by an application is stored in DRAM or flash memory and read by processor as need be during the course of the application s execution. Input data may be data stored in DRAM by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to the DHCT or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application at the time it was generated as a software application in which case it is stored in flash memory . Data generated by an application is stored in DRAM by processor during the course of the application s execution. DRAM also includes application memory that various applications may use for storing and or retrieving data.

An application referred to as navigator is also resident in flash memory for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . The navigator registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment decrement last channel favorite channel etc. The client applications may be resident in flash memory or downloaded into DRAM . The navigator also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to DHCT functions such as for example providing an interactive program guide blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu and displaying a video on demand purchase list.

The flash memory also contains a platform library . The platform library is a collection of utilities useful to applications such as a timer manager a compression manager a configuration manager an HTML parser a database manager a widget toolkit a string manager and other utilities not shown . These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces APIs as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library that are shown in are a window manager and a service application manager client SAM .

The window manager provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager on the DHCT is responsible for as directed by one or more applications implementing the creation display and de allocation of the limited DHCT screen resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions or windows. The window manager also maintains among other things a user input registry in DRAM so that when a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse the user input registry is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order. As an application is executed it registers a request to receive certain user input keys or commands. When the user presses a key corresponding to one of the commands on the remote control device the command is received by the receiver and relayed to the processor . The processor dispatches the event to the operating system where it is forwarded to the window manager which ultimately accesses the user input registry and routes data corresponding to the incoming command to the appropriate application.

The SAM client is a client component of a client server pair of components with the server component being located on the headend . A SAM database in DRAM includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Many services can be defined using the same application component with different parameters. Examples of services include without limitation and in accordance with one implementation presenting television programs available through a WatchTV application pay per view events available through a PPV application digital music not shown media on demand available through an MOD application and an interactive program guide. In general the identification of a service includes the identification of an executable application that provides the service along with a set of application dependent parameters that indicate to the application the service to be provided. As a non limiting example a service of presenting a television program could be executed with a set of parameters to view HBO or with a separate set of parameters to view CNN. Each association of the application component tune video and one parameter component HBO or CNN represents a particular service that has a unique service I.D. The SAM client also interfaces with the resource manager as discussed below to control resources of the DHCT .

Application clients can also be downloaded into DRAM at the request of the SAM client typically in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend. In this non limiting example DRAM contains a media on demand application MOD an e mail application and a web browser application among others not shown . It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for this present embodiment of the invention. Furthermore one or more DRAM based applications may as an alternative embodiment be resident in flash memory . These applications and others provided by the cable system operator are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.

In one implementation applications executing on the DHCT work with the navigator by abiding by several guidelines. First an application utilizes the SAM client for the provision activation and suspension of services. Second an application shares DHCT resources with other applications and abides by the resource management policies of the SAM client the operating system and the DHCT . Third an application handles situations where resources are only available with navigator intervention. Fourth when an application loses service authorization while providing a service the application suspends the service via the SAM the navigator will reactivate an individual service application when it later becomes authorized . Finally an application client is designed to not have access to certain user input keys reserved by the navigator i.e. power channel volume etc. .

An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system OS component or to a client platform component or to a client application or to respective parts thereof can reside in and execute out of DRAM and or flash memory . Likewise data inputted into or outputted from any executable program can reside in DRAM or flash memory . Furthermore an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an OS component or to a client platform component or to a client application or to respective parts thereof can reside in flash memory or in a local storage device connected to DHCT and can be transferred into DRAM for execution. Likewise data input for an executable program can reside in flash memory or a storage device and can be transferred into DRAM for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition data outputted by an executable program can be written into DRAM by an executable program or algorithm and can be transferred into flash memory or into a storage device for storage purposes. The present invention is not limited by where or how data and or applications are stored or retrieved.

Each of the above mentioned applications comprises executable instructions for implementing logical functions and can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner and then stored in a computer memory.

The flexible and adaptive nature of the application framework requires that the server database provide its data encoded using a markup language created from the Extensible Markup Language or XML. In this way the application specific data is described in the application specific markup language and the flexible and adaptive information about the DHCT is published in a separate markup language. This language includes a element and a element into which DHCT model elements are grouped. Model elements include and . The application server then interacts with the DNCS to query the model and type of a specific DHCT given its Media Access Controller MAC address an id number . The model and type are compared to those stored in the high profile and low profile groups to determine which components to provide to the DHCT. In addition to the DHCT resource profile information the server database stores information specific to the application. In the preferred embodiment this application is media on demand and the database stores information such as the movie catalog current and past purchases user authorization user settings etc.

In the case of the low capacity DHCT configuration of the application client component consists only of a small loader component. This components only role is to respond to a signal from the DHCT SAM client that the user wishes to access the media on demand services. The loader simply activates the web browser with the pre configured Uniform Resource Locator of the initial content page on the application server . Note that in other embodiments where the cable system allows a media on demand service to be configured from the headend by the application server to activate the web browser with the appropriate URL the application client loader component is not necessary and will not be downloaded.

The DHCT user interacts with the media on demand service or whatever service the flexible application is providing via the web browser . The application server responds to Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP requests by processing the requested URL and parameters according to the service it is providing. This may require accessing and or storing data in the server database . In the preferred embodiment the user interface for the application is stored as Extensible Style Sheet XSL documents that allow the XML media on demand information to be translated into HTML using an XSL processor. The server application thus translates the XML data into HTML data and transmits it to the web browser stored in memory at LDHCT A which presents the HTML data to a user via a display device such as a computer monitor or a television screen. The information presented to the user may for example include information about movies that are available to the user via the DHCT A.

In this configuration the application server supplies a downloadable package to the DHCT that includes a web browser should such a component not already be resident in the DHCT memory. It also includes some of the application and database components that in the previous configuration were part of the application server . For example in the preferred embodiment of the media on demand application the application includes an XSL processor that as discussed above uses an XSL specification to translate media catalog information received in XML from the server database . In the high capacity DHCT configuration this XSL processor is downloaded to the DHCT and executes there. Additionally the HTTP Server component of the application that executes as part of the application server is also downloaded to the DCHT . In essence in this configuration the basic processing aspects of the media on demand application execute as the application client on the DHCT rather than as part of the application server .

When signaled by the SAM client that the DHCT user wishes to access its services the application client configures the web browser to use the well known localhost IP address for its HTTP communication and passes the web browser the URL to the initial content. In this case the web browser sends the HTTP request to the URL via localhost. The HTTP Server executing as part of the application client is listening on the localhost port and receives this request. It then transfers the request to the application specific component in the preferred embodiment media on demand .

In the same way that the application processing is distributed to the client a cache of the application specific data is also downloaded to the DHCT in the form of a client database . This database caches XML and XSL data received from the server database via the application server . If the HTTP request requires access or storage of data in the server database the application client sends an HTTP request to the application server for the data. In alternate embodiments where the network does not support HTTP this request and transmission of the data may be part of a different reverse path and broadcast protocol such as the Broadcast File System BFS described previously.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of the implementations merely setting forth a clear understanding of the principles of the inventions. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit of the principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present invention and protected by the following claims.

