---

title: System and method for point-of-use instruction
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, systems and methods for transferring data over a network include communicating with a user via a portable communication device over the network, receiving a request for at least one instruction sequence related to a particular repair task of a machine from the user via the portable communication device over the network, processing the request from the user by accessing and retrieving the at least one instruction sequence from a database component, and transferring the at least one instruction sequence from the database component to the portable communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123189&OS=09123189&RS=09123189
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09123189
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080813
---
This application is a continuation in part to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 673 685 entitled Ramp Recorder and Quick Reporting Tree Data Transmission Method filed Feb. 12 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to data retrieval and more particularly to point of use instruction via ultra portable devices.

Currently there is no standardized method for conveying information about aircraft damage and or malfunction to a centralized decision making center in a manner efficient enough to enable quick dispatch or grounding for repair of an aircraft. Moreover the methods in use today involve a combination of modes with much of the important data manually typed or verbally communicated. These methods of communication do not allow the information to be stored in a format that adequately captures history and allows forecasting. For example a verbal telephone repot or an e mail description can not be efficiently incorporated into a spreadsheet or relational database or quantified without a labor intensive translation process by a human operator.

Certain operations on an airplane though relatively simple are highly critical and demand skilled workmanship. In heavy maintenance situations where time is not as critical individuals with a high skill level can be summoned and or documents that describe how to do the operation can be reference on nearby computers. The situation is different for an aircraft in line maintenance or at an airport a loading gate. In these situations it is often not possible to summon individuals with the needed training to the scene nor is it possible for mechanics to quickly access guidance and or instructions that describe how to properly perform the operation.

As such some existing solutions for accessing guidance and or instructions may require the user to obtain formal training before undertaking the operation and rely on this memorized training even though months or years may have passed. Other solutions may require a user to consult a manual either via a communication network or in paper form that is usually available only in central locations and not at the point of use.

Some guidance and or instructions may be delivered to an airplane mechanic at a remote area with a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi connection. However wireless capability for networked computers is not always present in remote areas. When present it is rarely adequate to transmit high bandwidth data and information such as photo and video content. Accordingly conventional solutions that rely on conventional wireless network connections suffer from inconsistent or non existent wireless coverage in locations where point of use instructions are needed.

As a result there is a need for a standardized efficient system and method for transmitting data on damage and malfunctions of aircraft structures and systems for rapid decision making and accumulation of statistical data for analyzing identifying and forecasting damage trends for quality control and product improvement.

Systems and methods disclosed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure involves a service application downloadable to an ultra portable device e.g. a cell phone or personal digital assistant PDA that is adapted to guide a user through a task using interactive instructions. Various processes may be performed with point of use guidance using the ultra portable device to deliver sequential instructions with accompanying videos graphics and or illustrations.

In one implementation the service application guides the user through a task with a step by step instruction sequence. For example instructions may be provided directly to a user having the ultra portable device. In some situations the user may not be skilled in the task at a particular location e.g. remote location where the work needs to be performed and thus the step by step instruction sequence provides guidance to the user.

In another implementation the service application serves as a point of use guide or coach to demonstrate proper service techniques. The service application enables service to be performed in an uninterrupted manner on site without excursions to retrieve information stored in other locations. The service application also enables non specialized personnel to be coached or trained on the spot to perform tasks above their skill level.

In accordance with one embodiment a system for transferring data over a network comprises a database component for storing one or more instruction sequences for a plurality of tasks related to repairing a machine a communication component adapted to communicate with a user via a portable communication device over the network and a processing component adapted to receive a request for at least one instruction sequence related to a particular repair task of the machine from the user via the portable communication device over the network and process the request from the user by accessing and retrieving the at least one instruction sequence from the database component. The communication component is adapted to transfer the at least one instruction sequence from the database component to the portable communication device for viewing by the user.

In one implementation the portable communication device may comprise at least one of a cell phone and personal digital assistant PDA and the network may comprise a cellular phone network. The at least one instruction sequence may be displayed to the user on a display component of the portable communication device. The at least one instruction sequence may comprise step by step guidance through each instruction in the instruction sequence. The portable communication device may comprise a portable database component for storage of the at least one instruction sequence. The portable communication device may comprise a user input component that receives input from the user including data and information related to the at least one instruction sequence. The machine comprises an airplane and the system comprises a server.

In accordance with one embodiment a method for transferring data over a network comprises communicating with a user via a portable communication device over the network receiving a request for at least one instruction sequence related to a particular repair task of a machine from the user via the portable communication device over the network processing the request from the user by accessing and retrieving the at least one instruction sequence from a database component and transferring the at least one instruction sequence from the database component to the portable communication device.

In one implementation the method may comprise conducting an automated query and response session with the user via the portable communication device. The method may comprise receiving and analyzing data related to at least one of damage and malfunction of the machine. The method may comprise preparing a damage report for the user based on the query and response session and deciding whether the machine is ready for use or repair based on the damage report. In one aspect deciding whether the machine is ready for use or repair based on the damage report includes one or more of deciding to make minor repairs and dispatch the machine deciding to remove the machine from service for major repair and deciding to dispatch the machine without repair.

The scope of the invention is defined by the claims which are incorporated into this section by reference. A more complete understanding will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of one or more embodiments. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings that will first be described briefly.

Embodiments of the present invention and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures.

A discussion between the ramp area personnel and Fleet Engineer via block and block is held using the rapid reporting communications device. This results in a decision whether some measure of nondestructive inspection NDI is required block . If the determination is such that the incident is of a minor nature as to not require NDI e.g. a NO decision in block for a surface scratch a routine documentation is captured as follows The RR cell phone is equipped with image acquisition and transmission capability as for example a cell phone with a digital camera. For recordkeeping the ramp personnel photographs specific areas of the aircraft with the RR cell phone such as the tail number block for identification the general damage area block and any further detailed images block . The ramp area personnel transmits the images via the RR cell phone block to the Fleet Engineer who receives and evaluates them block .

The ramp personnel may at this time initiate a decision tree interview block with the Quick Reporting Tree system to be described below in which an automated process of directed questions based on responses from the ramp personnel obtains information at finer levels of granularity for evaluating the damage and suggesting disposition actions.

For the current case in which the damage is determined to be of a very minor nature or easily resolved the Quick Reporting Tree system returns a report which is transmitted to ramp personnel and Fleet Engineering block . The Fleet Engineer receives the report block and after evaluating all evidence in hand makes a decision block as to whether the aircraft can fly i.e. depart or is in need of some level of repair. Aircraft Disposition Instructions block are received at the ramp boarding area pursuant to the Aircraft Disposition decision block issued by the Flight Engineer. At this point the rapid assessment and dispatch repair decision making process is considered finished and the Action Complete block .

In the case where consultation between ramp personnel and Fleet Engineering via blocks and determines that NDI measures are required a YES decision in block the next decision concerns whether a simple category of pass fail NDI tests may be sufficient block . If the decision is positive i.e. YES then one or more simple NDI tests instruments are deployed block by ramp personnel. Using the simple NDI test instruments the ramp personnel attempts to determine if subsurface damage exists. block . An evaluation of the simple NDI tests block determines whether the tests are sufficient to assess whether the potential for subsurface composite damage has been adequately assessed. If the NDI test produces satisfactory results i.e. OK and damage is limited or cosmetic i.e. a YES at this point the ramp personnel may acquire via the RR cell phone camera block identifying information including images of the aircraft tail number general area of the aircraft and damaged area. The personnel will then transmit the imagery to the Fleet Engineer block who receives and evaluates the imagery and information block as above. The assessment process then continues as previously described from this point onward.

In the case where simple NDI tests produce unclear or unsatisfactory results as determined at either block or the decision is made to deploy extensive and quantitative Advanced NDI block . This procedure may require for example establishing a video and data link block between advanced NDI equipment at the ramp location and an expert located at a Remote Location who is trained to evaluate NDI imagery and data and for practical reasons of resource allocation may not be available at every possible boarding ramp location.

Data and imagery may then be transmitted to Remote Location block where the NDI expert remotely supervises and interprets NDI data block . The expert evaluates the NDI data and imagery and prepares a damage report block . That report is transmitted to personnel at the Airport Ramp location block to provide documentation to Fleet Engineering block via block for Aircraft Disposition block and Airport Disposition Instructions block and is also entered and recorded in the Quick Reporting Tree system as coded data to be described below. The Quick Reporting Tree system provides a comprehensive report including the NDI report which are both received block as above by Aircraft Disposition decision block at Remote Location block and forwarding of Aircraft Disposition Instructions block to Airport Ramp block . These steps conclude the interview and assessment with Action Complete block . Similar flowcharts may be constructed to describe methods of responding to damage to non composite structures mechanical or electrical malfunctions all of which are contemplated as embodiments.

When a Decision Tree Interview is initiated a series of questions are generated by a Quick Reporting Tree system operating from a remotely located computer in contact with ramp personnel via for example the RR cell phone. is an exemplary illustration of how the interview process may proceed.

Upon contacting the Quick Reporting Tree system by RR cell phone the first instruction that may appear on the user s screen or by audio instruction may be a request to Enter tail number block which may also include a request for an image . After entry and transmission of this data via keypad for example the next request may be to Enter date time and location block . The next request inquires about the general nature of the problem. Problem type block may list for example choices such as Structural damage 1 Systems malfunction 2 Engine malfunction 3 etc. whereupon the user makes a simple numeric entry. Selection from among the multiple choices available result in navigation through one of the branches of the selection tree. For example if the damage is structural the entry would be 1 on the keypad. This would lead to another branch point Structure block with choices for sections of the aircraft such as Fuselage 1 Wing 2 Empennage 3 etc. . If the damage is to the fuselage the user may enter 1 which then triggers an inquiry from Fuselage block called Sub structure block . to identify which sub structure of the fuselage is involved e.g. skin pressure vessel cargo door etc. . A code is built as each branch point is queried. Using the example above Structural damage 1 fuselage 1 sub structure fuselage skin pressure vessel 1 would be assigned a reporting tree code that may read for example as 1.1.1 . The code is amended as finer granularity of detail is developed from the Decision Tree Interview.

Another example of a result from a Decision Tree Interview might occur in response to an engine malfunction and damage due to foreign object debris FOD ingestion in the 1st stage compressor. This might be assigned a code for example of 3.4.3.6 .

At a point appropriate to the specific problem the code may be further amended with recommendations or instructions for remediation of the problem. This may result in a longer code with additional numerical components. For example in the FOD ingestion engine malfunction the amended code may look like 3.4.3.6.9.2.4.6 which encodes repair instructions and removal of the aircraft from service if necessary in addition to the evidentiary record upon which the recommendations are based. The coded fault data is then Transmitted block and to the Airport Ramp block for receipt by the ramp area user and to Fleet Engineer received in block . The coded fault data received by Fleet Engineer block is translated automatically for entry in an Aircraft Disposition form in block which is effectively a code translated report of damage malfunction assessment and may include recommendations. Fleet Engineer then issues to ramp personnel Aircraft Disposition Instructions block at which point the Decision Tree Interview is concluded Action Complete block .

An exemplary illustration of a system for reporting recording assessing and disposition of aircraft damage and malfunction incidents is shown in . The system may be a communication device equipped with still and or video imaging capability such as a wireless cell phone with a digital camera in communication with a remote computer server on which the Quick Reporting Tree system is operating. Both the cell phone and the server are coupled via a communications network .

In addition to enabling rapid assessment for repair vs. dispatch decisions concerning aircraft Quick Reporting Tree system provides a means for the archival acquisition of damage and malfunction histories that may be analyzed across aircraft fleets airline carriers airport service facilities components component suppliers and a myriad of other relational criteria to build statistical databases helpful for example to observe trends identify potential causal effects improve safety products and processes control operating production costs for manufacturers or operating costs for carriers. This process may be carried out in a decision tree structure like Quick Reporting Tree that accesses a relational database of the information acquired from many accumulated incidents using various software methods of data mining.

Report codes block may be retrieved from a stored database and sorted according to any required criteria. For example If the incidence of cargo door damage during loading is sorted by airport block a histogram may be generated for all airports e.g. etc. for all carriers block or a subset of carriers e.g. etc. for one or more types of aircraft block e.g. commuter medium range jumbo etc. . Many different statistical analysis methods block may be employed which may also include correlation analysis between categories to search for behavioral trends which are all within the spirit of the embodiment. The results of the analysis and forecasting may be presented in a Report block which may include presentation of data for example in histogram form block or other forms or representation graphically in tables and in narrative description of information.

Report block may provide information to identify relationships between damage malfunction types and rate of occurrences and correlation to conditions that predispose such occurrences. This may help to indicate areas such as procedures design modification or training that could beneficially reduce the number of such occurrences reducing airline carrier costs delays inconveniences and supplier warranty costs.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in one embodiment the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. In various other embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks adapted to communicate with a wireless telecommunications network.

The user device in various embodiments comprises a mobile communication and computing device such as a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or various other generally known types of mobile communication and computing devices adapted to communicate with the server device via the network . The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one aspect it should be appreciated that the user device may be referred to as a client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The user device in one embodiment includes a service application that may be utilized by the user to access and or browse data and information made available to the user by the server device over the network . For example the service application may be implemented as a network gateway to retrieve store and display task instruction data and information e.g. instruction data information and or files related to service tasks provided by the server device over the network .

In one implementation the service application provides access to relevant task instruction data and information to the user for use in field service activities. The service application may access and retrieve one or more task instruction records and store the one or more records in a local memory component such as database .

In one implementation the service application provides access to service data and information for operating maintaining and repairing machinery such as an airplane and the service application is adapted to store the accessed data and information in database for ease of access by the user via user device which may comprise an ultra portable device such as mobile cellular phone. As described in greater detail herein data and information may be retrieved from the server device stored locally on the user device and displayed for viewing by the user .

In one implementation the service application comprises a software application that is uploadable from the server device to the user device . The user device is adapted to display data and information tailored to particular machinery e.g. aircraft as designated by the user via user input which may be stored in database of the user device . The user inputted data and information may be transmitted to the server device via the network for storage and processing by the server device . This data and information may be associated with an appropriate task related to the particular machinery.

The user device in one embodiment may include a network interface application which may be utilized by the user to communicate with the server device via the network . For example the network interface application may utilize a graphical user interface GUI in connection with the service application for viewing of task instruction data and information including related repair data and information.

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more user identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include attributes related to the user such as security information e.g. user name password photograph image biometric id address phone number etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user service request to the server device and the user identifier may be used by the server device to provide the user with access to data and information stored by the server device .

The user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide additional features available to the user . For example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more databases adapted to store and archive various types of data and information including data and information related to service procedures and task instructions. In various embodiments the one or more databases may comprise a removable memory component such as a smart card and or an internal memory component such as a ROM component. In one aspect data and information related to task instructions for machinery such as an airplane may be downloaded from the server device and stored on the user device in the one or more databases . In various aspects the downloaded task instructions may be stored in various ways using unique indexes to optimize retrieval. As such an indexer may use noun phrase collocation and simplified English specific phrases and or grammar for indexing and organization.

The server device in one embodiment comprises a network server adapted to communicate with the user device via the network and to operate as a data and information storage facility for transmitting and receiving data and information. The server device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The server device is configured to retrieve and format relevant data and information e.g. task instruction data and information for transmission to the service application of the user device .

The server device in one embodiment may include a processing application a network interface application and one or more databases . The network interface application in one embodiment may comprise a network communication device module and or application that allows the server device to communicate with the user device via the network to facilitate transfer of data and information.

The processing application in one embodiment comprises a processing mechanism that allows retrieval and formatting of relevant data and information e.g. task instruction data and information for transmission to the user device via the network . For example the user may input into the user device a serial number for a machine e.g. an aircraft and or part thereof and then request and receive repair task instructions related to the machine and or part thereof from the database of the server device . This allows the user to quickly retrieve repair task instructions related to the machine and or part thereof. In one aspect the task instructions may reference other related task instructions that may be associated with other parts of the machine. For example an engine part of an airplane may have a plurality of other related engine parts associated with that particular engine part. As such task instructions related to these other related engine parts may also be retrieved from the server device .

The database in one embodiment comprises one or more databases adapted to store and archive data and information including task instructions data and information which may be uploaded for storage in database of the user device . In various implementations the uploaded task instructions may be stored in various ways using unique indexes to optimize retrieval. As such an indexer may use noun phrase collocation and simplified English specific phrases and or grammar for indexing and organization.

The server device in one embodiment may include one or more server identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries identifiers associated with hardware of the server device or various other appropriate identifiers that identify the server device . The server identifier may include attributes related to a company or organization that provides and or operates the server device and or an administrator or operator of the server device . The attributes may be implemented as security information e.g. a company name address or phone number or operator name password photograph image or biometric id. . In various aspects the server identifier may be passed with a response to a user request for data and information.

It should be appreciated that in one embodiment the user device may be adapted to include one or more applications and or operations of the server device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. As such in one implementation the service application of the user device may include one or more applications and or operations related to the processing component of the server device .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure the service application is downloadable to the user device which may comprise an ultra portable device e.g. a cell phone or PDA that is adapted to guide the user through a task using interactive instructions. As described in greater detail herein various processes may be performed with point of use guidance using the user device to deliver sequential instructions with accompanying videos graphics and or illustrations that are viewable by the user from a display component of the user device .

In one implementation the service application guides the user through a task with a step by step instruction sequence. For example instructions may be provided directly to the user via the user device . In some situations the user may not be skilled in the task at a particular location e.g. remote location where the work needs to be performed and thus the step by step instruction sequence provides guidance to the user .

In another implementation the service application serves as a point of use device e.g. coaching device to demonstrate proper service techniques. The service application enables service to be performed in an uninterrupted manner on site i.e. point of use without excursions to retrieve information stored in other locations such as in a service manual. The service application also enables non specialized personnel to be coached or trained on the spot to perform tasks above their skill level.

Next the server device verifies the identity of the user based on information passed with the user instruction request block . For example the user may login to the server device by providing a user name and password.

Next the server device determines whether to upload the service application to the user device via the network based on information passed with the user instruction request block . For example the user may request permission to download the service application as part of the user instruction request. As such the server device may decide to upload the service application to the user device block and then process the user instruction request block . Otherwise if the server device determines that an upload is not necessary then the server device proceeds with processing the user instruction request block .

Next the server device identifies one or more tasks related to the user instruction request based on information passed with the request block and retrieves one or more task instructions from the database based on information passed with the user instruction request block . For example the server device may receive information related to a serial number for an aircraft and or part thereof and then retrieve repair task instructions related to the aircraft and or part thereof from the database . In one aspect the task instructions may reference one or more other related task instructions that may be associated with one or more other parts of the aircraft and or parts thereof.

Next the server device transfers the retrieved task instructions to the user device via the network block . Next the server device may optionally verify the transfer of the task instructions to the user device via the network block . In one implementation verification of transfer may include receiving a response from the user device upon delivery.

Next the user accesses the server device via communication between the user device and the server device over the network block . In one example if the user device comprises a cell phone the user may access the server device via a cell phone communication network as the network .

Next the user may be optionally prompted to provide and or transmit user identity information to the server device to verify the identity of the user block . In one example the user may be prompted to provide identity information related to the user such as for example a login name and password for access to data and information e.g. task instruction data and information stored in the database of the server device .

Next the user provides and or transmits a task instruction request to the server device block . In one example the user provides a task instruction request to the server device via the network to access task instruction data and information stored in the database of the server device .

Next the user receives and or downloads task instructions from the server device via the network block . Next the received task instructions may be stored on the user device block . In one example the received task instructions are stored locally in the database of the user device for review and or analysis by the user . As such the stored task instructions may be displayed on the user device block . In one example the stored task instructions are accessible and retrievable from the database for display on a display component of the user device for visual review and or analysis by the user .

Next the user may be optionally prompted to provide and or transmit user identity information to the server device to verify the identity of the user block . In one example the user may be prompted to provide identity information related to the user such as for example a login name and password for access to data and information e.g. task instruction data and information stored in the database of the server device .

Next the user downloads the service application from the server device via the network for storage and installation on the user device block . Once installed the user runs i.e. executes and or operates the service application on the user device block . In various examples the service application may be downloaded from the server device via the network prior to use by the user and once installed then the user opens the service application for use thereof on the user device .

Next the user provides and or transmits a task instruction request to the server device block . In one example the user provides a task instruction request to the server device via the network to access task instruction data and information stored in the database of the server device .

Next the user receives and or downloads task instructions from the server device via the network block . Next the received task instructions may be stored on the user device block . In one example the received task instructions are stored locally in the database of the user device for review and or analysis by the user . As such the stored task instructions may be displayed on the user device block . In one example the stored task instructions are accessible and retrievable from the database for display on a display component of the user device for visual review and or analysis by the user .

In one implementation the service application receives task identity information from the user via the user device block . In one aspect the service application when executed may prompt the user for a task serial number that specifies a particular task instruction sequence for display on the user device . For example as described in reference to and A J the task serial number may refer to a task instruction sequence for a ramp recorder process when assessing aircraft damage and malfunction incidents. In another example the task identity information may include data and information related to a location of damage to a machine e.g. an aircraft such as a commercial airplane which may be useful in retrieving appropriate task instructions.

Next the service application may optionally verify the task identity and or the task identity information with the user to ensure that the appropriate task instruction sequence is retrieved and provided to the user via the user device block . In one example verifying task identity may refer to the user verifying that the correct task identity serial number was provided to the service application .

Next the service application retrieves the task instructions related to the received and or verified task identity information block . In one example the service application retrieves the task instructions from the database of the user device as stored.

Next the service application displays the retrieved task instructions block . In one example the retrieved task instructions are displayed on a display component of the user device for visual review and or analysis by the user .

Next the service application determines is the task instruction sequence is complete block . If no then the service application identifies block and displays block the next instruction in the task instruction sequence to the user . If yes then the service application stores task completion information related to the task instructions in the database of the user device block . In one aspect the user steps through the sequence of task instructions to perform and complete an instruction before accessing the next instruction in the sequence. As such the service application provides the user with access to each individual instruction and control over when and if the particular instruction is completed.

Next the service application may optionally access the server device via the network block and optionally provide and or transmit the task completion information block to the server device via the network for storage in the database of the server device . In various examples the service application may automatically provide the task completion information to the server device upon completion of a task as indicated by the user or the service application may at least prompt the user for permission to provide the task completion information to the server device .

In one embodiment during a user walk around or inspection routine a scuff and or dent may be noticed on an external surface e.g. a composite skin of a machine e.g. an aircraft such as a commercial airplane . The user e.g. a mechanic technician or ramp supervisor obtains a Ramp Damage Checker RDC device i.e. RDC instrument of from a maintenance equipment area. Next the user selects and executes the service application e.g. RDC related service application for execution on the user device e.g. a cell phone block which may have been previously downloaded to the user device from the server device via the network .

Next upon execution the RDC service application displays a graphical introduction to the RDC instruction process block . shows one embodiment of executing the RDC service application on the user device which may comprise a cell phone.

Next the RDC service application prompts the user to select and indicate the area of damage on the aircraft block from a displayed image on the user device block . For example referring to a first area may of damage be highlighted in a first color e.g. red color and a second area of damage may be highlighted in a second color e.g. green color . The user makes a decision block by selecting a color from the displayed image as shown in with the pressing of a key on a keypad of the user device . If the selected color is red by pressing the number 1 key on the user device then the RDC device should not be used block and a related message is displayed to the user on the user device . Otherwise if the selected color is green by pressing the number 2 key on the user device then the user advances to the next instruction on the user device .

Next the RDC service application prompts the user to power up the RDC device block . In one aspect a first indicator light of the RDC device may show a green light which informs the user that the RDC device is powered up. When complete the user advances to the next instruction on the user device . If after power up the batteries of the RDC device are low then the user device informs the user to recharge the batteries or replace the batteries block . For example as shown in if the batteries are low the user device provides a message to the user .

Next the RDC service application may instruct the user to calibrate the RDC device block by displaying an image as shown in on the user device block and then test the response. In one aspect the first indicator light of the RDC device may show a green light block which informs the user that the RDC device is calibrated. In one aspect the RDC service application displays an image as shown in on the user device block . When complete the user advances to the next instruction on the user device .

Next the RDC service application instructs the user to calibrate the RDC device in good laminate material next to the visible damage location on the aircraft block and may show an instructional video on the user device block to assist the user with scanning the aircraft. In one aspect the first indicator light of the RDC device may show a green light which informs the user that the RDC device is calibrated with reference to the good laminate material on the aircraft. When complete the user advances to the next instruction.

Next the RDC service application instructs the user to use the RDC device to scan toward the damage on the aircraft block while careful to scan only in an approved forward aft direction as displayed in an image as shown in by the user device block . In addition the RDC service application instructs the user to calibrate the RDC device on the opposite side of the visible damage location. In one aspect the RDC service application instructs the user to scan toward the damage in an opposite direction to that previously used while careful to scan only in the approved forward aft direction. If the indicator light turns red block a message is displayed to the user on the user device as shown in and then the user may press a red button on the RDC device . Next the user is guided to the flaw marking procedure blocks and as further shown by image in and instructions for comparing the flaw to allowable damage parameters or limits block .

Otherwise if the first indicator light on the RDC device remains green then the user presses a green variable function button on RDC device and proceeds to make a decision as to whether the inspection is complete block . In one aspect a message is displayed to the user on the user device as shown in and then the user may press a button on the user device to record the damage as cosmetic block and then the user is instructed that the aircraft may be released for service block . If the inspection is not complete block then the user is directed to rescan block . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various other procedures to repair a machine such as an aircraft may be implemented in a similar manner as described above without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus and or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure computer system is adapted to perform specific operations by processor executing sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In various other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

In various implementations logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may comprise many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various implementations execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks including cell phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

In various implementations computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and or instructions including one or more programs e.g. application code such as service application through the communication link and the communication interface . In one aspect received program code may be executed by the processor as received and or stored in the disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The one or more embodiments described herein illustrate but do not limit the subject matter of the present disclosure. It should be appreciate and understood by those skilled in the art that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the principles described herein with reference to the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the following claims.

