---

title: Geocoding personal information
abstract: A computer-implemented method for generating geocoded user information is disclosed. The method comprises searching user data across multiple different data corpuses for entries having location-related information and determining locations for the location-related information. The method further comprises generating a map showing a current location of a mobile device along with representations of the entries having location-related information, at the determined locations, for entries from the multiple different data corpuses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060582&OS=08060582&RS=08060582
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08060582
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081022
---
With the advent of web based personal information management PIM programs such as calendars address books and task lists people who spend much of their time away from their home or office have come to depend on these web applications to manage their everyday affairs. In fact online or mobile PIM applications are often the only place that some users record important personal information. Although modern portable computing devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs and smartphones sometimes allow users to access information stored on the Internet without being tethered to a particular location PDAs generally force the user to view the information in a vacuum i.e. without the context provided by information stored on other devices or in another Internet applications.

Context may be especially important when the user is unable to focus solely on the portable computing device e.g. when the user is driving a motor vehicle. For instance as the user is driving the user may need driving directions provided by a navigation system and simultaneously want contact information stored in a web application accessible by a PDA. Switching focus between the road the navigation system and the PDA may have disastrous consequences for not only the driver but also for others on the road.

In general this document describes enhancing visual displays or other outputs e.g. auditory or tactile with personal data. In particular location related data associated with entries in a user s many personal applications may be scraped from those applications and icons for the entries may be superimposed over a map on a portable computing device of the user. Such personal applications may include task appointment or calendar and contacts applications and the location related information can include information such as a contact s address or address information listed in a description for an upcoming meeting. The location related information can be geocoded and an icon for each such entry can then be displayed over a map that shows the user s current location such as a map on a personal navigation device which may be a mobile smartphone running a mapping application .

For example a user may store personal data in one or more applications and physical locations corresponding to the personal data may be determined. As a user nears one or more of the physical locations corresponding to personal data the display of a mobile computing device belonging to the user may be updated to include an indication of the personal data related to the physical location. If desired the user can obtain additional information regarding the personal data displayed on the device by selecting an appropriate icon.

In one implementation a computer implemented method for generating geocoded user information is disclosed. The method comprises searching user data across multiple different data corpuses for entries having location related information and determining locations for the location related information. The method further comprises generating a map showing a current location of a mobile device along with representations of the entries having location related information at the determined locations for entries from the multiple different data corpuses.

In some aspects data for displaying the map is received from a remote server and data for the entries is received from a local device and overlaid on the map. Also the method further comprises displaying over the map icons representing entries for events that are a determined distance from an outer edge of a geography displayed by the map. In addition determining locations for the location related information comprises transmitting descriptive location based data to a remote server and receiving in response geocoded information. In certain aspects the method further comprises submitting a query associated with the user data to a remote local search engine and displaying icons representative of data received in response to the query along the representations of the entries.

In another implementation a tangible medium having recorded and stored thereon instructions that when executed performs actions is disclosed. The actions include searching user data across multiple different data corpuses for entries having location related information and determining locations for the location related information. The actions also include generating a map showing a current location of a mobile device along with descriptions of the entries having location related information at the determined locations for entries from the multiple different data corpuses.

In certain aspects the instructions for generating a map further include instructions for displaying over the map icons representing entries that are a determined distance from an outer edge of a geography displayed by the map. The instructions also include instructions for receiving a panning action on the map and updating a display of the map and the entries to match a new location on the map. In addition the instructions include instructions for receiving a panning action on the map and updating a display of the map and the entries to match a new location on the map.

The systems and techniques described here may provide one or more of the following advantages. First a system may geocode personal information from a variety of applications and may display the information to a user in a manner that incorporates the various types of information into a common display. Second a system may augment an electronic display with nearby contacts and events including by indicating entries that fall outside the current range of a visual display.

The details of one or more embodiments of geocoding personal information are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of geocoding personal information will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes systems and techniques for generating maps that contain geocoded user information. User data is selected from one or more databases and the real world location of the selected data is determined. Subsequently the location of the selected data may be indicated by markers placed on a map displayed on a portable computing device. For example a businesswoman may save data relating to contacts appointments and tasks in one or more web applications. As she drives from her office to a client site icons representing the save data in her immediate vicinity may be displayed on the screen of her PDA. If she selects a contact or event by for example touching the area of screen where the marker resides detailed information regarding the contact or event may be displayed such as a description of an appointment or a telephone number associated with a contact or an appointment. The user may then for example click to call the telephone number either by pressing on it or selecting it using voice commands.

For example a user may enter personal information into web applications such as an online calendar or appointment book to do or task list address or contacts book etc. using a computing device. The personal information may include the addresses of family and friends errands that need to be completed or upcoming work and social events among other data. As the user moves from one place to another the information contained in the online applications may be used to populate a map display on a computing device traveling with the user such as a PDA laptop in vehicle navigation system or other appropriate computing device. In some cases the personal information may be used to enhance other types of output. For example the personal information contained in the online applications may be used to trigger a voice reminder or to make a computing device vibrate when a user approaches a location corresponding to the personal information.

Referring more specifically to image is a screenshot of the display produced by an exemplary mapping system capable of displaying geocoded user information. In an illustrative example the geocoded information may be represented by event and contact markers or icons. In some implementations the markers may be associated with user data contained in web applications and on line data repositories. For example the user data may reside in one or more web applications such as GOOGLE CALENDAR GOOGLE MAPS GOOGLE DOCS or other appropriate web based programs. In other implementations each marker may correspond to information contained in a computing device such as a PDA personal computer laptop cellular telephone or the like or information that is stored on a mobile device and is synchronized with databases at a central server system.

In an illustrative example a user s information may be stored in one or more applications that may include a calendar address book and task list among other appropriate data management applications. An event marker may represent for example an upcoming doctor s appointment scheduled in the calendar while the contact marker may symbolize a co worker listed in the address book . The location of both the event and contact markers on the map may be determined by the geospatial location of the event or contact represented by the markers . In the example described above the placement of the event and contact markers may correspond to the actual location of the doctor s office and the contact s home respectively.

The location for an event or contact may be determined by geocoding textual information from an application. For example a contact entry may include an address such as 01 Broadway St. Louis Park Minn. in an address field and an application can check that address field and then geocode such information such as by submitting the textual information to a server programmed to respond with geocoded information such as a lat long pair or other properly formatted geocoded information. In a like manner a filter may review the descriptions of appointments looking for explicit address information such as street names or more implicit address information such as the name of a restaurant e.g. lunch at Spago .

Such translation of textual address information may occur for example by a first service scraping a user s databases for such information and a second service translating the textual information into geocoded information. The translation may also take into account various contextual factors. For example for appointments occurring around the lunch or dinner hours the term restaurant may be added to a search query. In a like manner a search may first be conducted on a database containing listings of businesses and may be performed as a local search in an area that is currently around the user s mobile device.

In other implementations the event markers may correspond to places other than particular listed locations in a user database. For example an event marker may relate to an uncompleted task in the task list . In an illustrative implementation the system may parse pending tasks in the task list and select one or more keywords or phrases such as grocery mail and dry clean. Subsequently the system may generate synonyms for the keywords in the current example the map system might produce supermarket post office and laundry respectively for the selected keywords and search reference map data for entities that match either a selected keyword or a keyword s synonym and that are within a predefined radius of the user s current location. The system may then retrieve this data. Using the street address or other information related to the matching entities the map system may populate the map with event markers that correspond to the actual location of the matching entities. In the current example as the user travels along a city street the map system may place event markers on the map that correspond to a number of local grocers a United States Post Office and a dry cleaner within a certain distance of the user.

The system may perform a similar process for scheduled calendar events that lack specific location related information. In some instances a user may enter a calendar event with a location too general to be geocoded or without including a location at all e.g See movie Thursday Nov. 1 2007 at 8 00 pm. By following the procedure described above parse entry generate synonyms and search the system may locate movie theaters in the user s vicinity and may include corresponding event markers on the map.

To facilitate user understanding of the spatial relationships between the user s location and the location represented by a map marker the system may employ a color or transparency scheme for certain markers. In some circumstances it may be difficult for a user to determine the relative distance between the user and an event or contact represented by a map marker . For example the user may have trouble appreciating the scale of the map displayed by the map system when the user is also driving a motor vehicle. In other words the user may be unable to judge whether the displayed markers are two or twenty miles away from the user. In some implementations markers within a preset distance of the user may be displayed in a different color than other markers. For example markers within the preset distance may be red while all other markers are blue however other color schemes may be used. In a similar manner the size of markers may change as they get closer to the current location of the user s mobile device

In other implementations a marker may begin to fade in or out as the user moves toward or away from a marker . For example as the user travels home from work a marker representing the office may fade i.e. become more transparent as the user moves outside a predetermined area. Similarly a marker representing the user s home may become more opaque when the user nears his or her home. In certain implementations the color and transparency scheme may be combined. For example map markers outside the user s surrounding area may become blue and fade as the user travels away from their physical location nearby markers may turn red and become less transparent as the user approaches a marker s actual location.

In some implementations the markers may be images that are associated with the contact or event. For example the contacts may be represented by an image of the person whose contact information is contained in one of the web applications while events can be represented by pictures of the location where the event is being held. In other implementations contacts and events may be divided into broad categories such as co workers family friends work home gym etc. Each category may be associated with a different image contacts and events that fall within a given category may be represented by an associated image on the map display. Also the markers as shown may simply differ based on the corpus for which the relevant information was retrieved e.g. contact appointment or task list.

The off screen markers can represent contact and event markers that will be shown in an area of the map adjacent to the currently displayed map section. In some implementations the section of the map displayed by the mapping system may not contain all of the user s geocoded information. For example the system may generate a map of an area within a five mile radius of the user any event or contact marker outside that area may not appear on the screen. In some implementations off screen markers may be placed on the edge of the map display below or to the side of a direction arrow representing the direction of the off screen contacts or events. Each off screen marker may contain a numeral indicating the number of non displayed events or contacts respectively that may be displayed in the subsequent map section. If no off screen markers are displayed the direction arrow may represent the direction that the user is currently traveling.

Details associated with a contact or event may be displayed in an information window linked to a contact or event marker. The information window may be adjacent to a marker or in some implementations may be situated near its associated marker in a non contiguous manner. Details may be extracted from information stored in one or more web applications or other appropriate sources. For example if the marker represents a contact the details displayed in the information window may include the contact s name address phone number etc.

The markers shown on display can also be filtered in a familiar manner. In particular buttons may be shown on the display that when selected may causes certain classes of markers e.g. task list contact or appoint to appear or disappear. Such interactivity may approximate the manner in which users can currently add layers e.g. for street names geocoded photos and the like to applications such as GOOGLE MAPS. In such a manner a user may be provided with the ability to personalize their display and to prevent it from becoming cluttered with information that is not presently relevant to the user.

Also certain user information may be automatically filtered. For example markers may be shown only for appointment data relating to appointments that will occur in the near future i.e. the current day . In a like manner markers for contacts may be limited only to close friends or family members. The contact information may also be extracted from a social networking application and the markers may be limited only to social contacts of a first degree or by a similar limiting factor.

In some cases a device may monitor its location and alert a user when a place of interest is nearby. For example when a user approaches a relevant location e.g. a home or business the device may initiate an auditory e.g. a voice reminder or tactile e.g. vibration indicator to notify the user that the place of interest is close. In some cases these alerts may be triggered by physical temporal or navigational proximity to a desired location or event. For example an alert can be triggered when a user is within 5 miles of a specified business. In some implementations an alert may be triggered when an event is about to start. For example a device may vibrate 15 minutes before a movie show time. In other cases an alert may be triggered when an exit to a desired location e.g. a grocery store is close by. In some implementations these auditory or tactile reminders may be in addition to or in lieu of alerts reminders or icons that may appear on a map display.

In some implementations triggering events may be user specified. For instance a user may set an alert based upon a weather forecast or current weather conditions price comparisons birthdays surf reports etc. In some cases a user may combine one or more triggering events or alert indicators to form an alert. For example a user may specify that the device should provide a verbal reminder and an appropriate map icon when a selected movie is 15 minutes from show time and a theatre showing the movie is within 10 miles.

In an alternative implementation triggering events may be automatically generated for a user. For example a user may opt to receive suggestions from a recommendation system such as those commonly employed by online retailers. These recommendation systems can suggest items of interest to a user by for instance identifying items that similar consumers have found interesting or by examining the user s purchase history among other methodologies. The recommendation system may supply the identified suggestion to the mapping system which can in turn generate an appropriate reminder e.g. a map icon a voice reminder or a tactile reminder . In an illustrative example a user may subscribe to a movie rental service that can supply movie recommendations to its subscribers. The service may generate recommendations for movies that are similar to movies the user has watched or that satisfy some other criteria. If the user chooses to receive suggestions from the service the service may supply these recommendations to the user s mapping system. The system can then geocode the recommendations. For example the system may generate a map icon representing the location of a movie rental store that may carry the recommended movie. Or if the recommended movie is currently playing in theatres the system may create map icons that represent the location of theatres showing the movie. In some implementations the recommendation service can create the reminders and transmit them to the mapping system. Although the recommendation system in the illustrative example involved movie rentals other recommendation systems may be used. For example a recommendation system that suggests products or services that may be of interest to the user can be used.

In an illustrative implementation the cartography application can be implemented as a collection of web based modules applications and on line data warehouses. As discussed in reference to user data may include information found in a user s calendar task list and address book among other data. Location scraper can search user data for location information. For example the location scraper may search predetermined user files for specific text such as place names e.g. the White House addresses coordinate data or other types of location information.

In some implementations the location scraper may be implemented as a web crawler that searches certain websites for text indicative of locations. For example the location scraper may search selected websites for business names area names addresses etc. In some implementations the location scraper may search for data in a specified format e.g. 5 contiguous digits potential zip codes the word Apartment or Apt followed one or more numbers city and state names etc. In other implementations the location scraper may search for predefined text such as Walker Museum Dinkytown or the University of Minnesota that is indicative of a location. In some circumstances the location scraper may request location based information from predetermined web applications or may search the data associated with the applications for location based information in the manner described above.

Alternatively instead of or in addition to searching user data for location based data the user or another entity may provide the cartography application with location information. In some implementations the user may input location information directly to the cartography application using a remote computing device . In other implementations contacts or events may also transmit location information to the application . In an exemplary implementation when the user comes close to certain contacts or events the contact or event may send information regarding its location to the cartography application . For example when the user comes within a specified distance of a store the store s computer system may be alerted to the user s presence e.g. the device may transmit a signal to the store and in response transmit the store s address and other information e.g. information regarding the store s current sales promotion to the system . In a similar fashion a contact may send his or her location information to the user when the user is in the vicinity of the contact.

The user may be provided control over the amount of information abut their location that is ever shared with the system or with other users. In particular the sharing of information may be permitted only if the user takes affirmative steps to consent to such sharing so that a default for the system is to maintain privacy over user data.

The location resolution module may convert a description of a location to geodata such as a lat long pair. The location resolution module may take a variety of familiar forms and may parse location based descriptive information and supply it to a resolving engine that identifies one or more unique locations that match the information. The module may then apply one or more heuristic rules to the results if there is more than one result. For example the result with the highest degree of similarity may be used or a result closest to the user s present location may be used. For example if the description text is 123 Smith and there is both a Smith Street and Smith Avenue in a town the relevant location may be selected as the street that includes a listing of a house at 123 a street that is closest to the user s mobile device at the moment a listing that includes other contextual information that matches a location e.g. if there is a Ditalio s Pizzeria on Smith Avenue and an appointment also includes the term Ditalio s or pizza or a street that matches some other parameter.

When there is a need to identify the current location of a device the computing device may transmit its location to the cartography application by way of network . In such a situation GPS or other technology on the device may generate a location identifier in a well known manner. When tower triangulation is used the cartography application may itself determine the location of device .

Where the cartography application is tasked with populating a map with information about user data the cartography application may determine if any reference map data corresponds to the location of the device . For example the device may transmit the latitude and longitude of its current location to the cartography application through suitable communication means. After the cartography application has received the data the cartography application may search for a location in the reference map data that corresponds to the data provided.

User data mapping module may generate a map of the user s current location that includes geocoded user information. The map may be generated in a variety of manners such as in the manner provided by GOOGLE MAPS. For example a zoom level for a map may be determined and a number of map tiles around the user s location at that zoom level may be fetched and transmitted to the device for display to the user.

In some implementations the user data mapping module then determines the physical location of data collected by the location scraper . For example the location scraper may provide the user data mapping module with a street address or lat long information e.g. as generated by the location resolution module for each relevant event that has been scraped. Subsequently the user data mapping module may locate the address in reference map data and select an appropriate marker to associate with the located map data. Finally the mapping module may create and populate a map display with a marker representing the user s location.

Interface may interpret incoming data and package outgoing data for reception by device . In some implementations upon receiving location based data from the computing device interface provides the data to the user data mapping module . The user data mapping module may if necessary use the location resolution module to convert the data into a format suitable for use by the cartography application e.g. coordinate data. As discussed above the user data mapping module may then determine the location of the device in its reference map data by searching the data for entries having positions that match the location on the map to be currently displayed.

Once the mapping module has retrieved the relevant reference map data information obtained by the location scraper is used by the mapping module to determine the placement of geocoded markers in the retrieved map data. In some implementations the user data mapping module determines the physical location of data collected by the location scraper . For example the location scraper may provide the user data mapping module with a street address. Subsequently the user data mapping module may generate a marker for the address such as by passing the data to the location resolution module . Other data types may require different processing techniques. In some implementations key words or phrases located by the location scraper may be compared with a list of common location names and their associated coordinates to determine a corresponding position in the reference map data. For example the word Metrodome may be compared with a list of popular locations in the reference map data. If a matching location name is found in this example the matching name may be Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome the coordinate data associated with the matching name may be flagged and later a marker representing the location can be displayed on the map in a location corresponding to the physical location of the Metrodome. In an alternative implementation the location scraper may in a similar manner determine the location in the reference map data that corresponds to the information extracted from user data .

Referring to mapping system may include a computing device remote computing device network and a base station . The computing device may include application storage user data location scraper location based data storage user data mapping module location engine and interface . Application storage can contain applications and their associated data. As noted above such applications may include a calendar task list address book and the like. User data may include user information such as contacts tasks event information etc.

As described above in reference to location scraper may search user data and in some implementations application storage as well for location information the location scraper may then store the location information in location based data storage . In this example the location scraper analyzes files stored on a computing device which is a mobile device such as a smartphone.

Location engine may determine the computing device s current location and may also convert location descriptions e.g. addresses to a location identifier e.g. a lat long coordinate . The location engine may make such conversions itself or may pass a location descriptor to a remote server such as server and receive a location identifier in response. In some implementations the location engine may calculate the computing device s position by accessing a GPS receiver in the device . In other implementations the location engine may estimate the device s position using the location of base stations or by employing other appropriate techniques. The location engine may supply location information to the user data mapping module discussed below or it may store the device s location in location based data storage .

In some implementations the location engine may also process location based data stored in location based data storage . In some implementations the location engine may search reference map data for map entities that correspond to location based data contained in location based data storage . For instance the location engine may search map data for entities related to a keyword e.g. Mount Rushmore coordinate data street addresses location names or other such information found in location based data storage . Once the location engine finds a corresponding entity it may send the coordinates of the entity to the user data mapping module .

In certain implementations the user data mapping module can create a map of the user s current location that includes geocoded user information e.g. for the user s current location and for events associated with a user . The mapping module may be invoked when the user selects an icon on a display of device in order to launch a navigation application on the device . The location based data may also have previously been provided to the location engine for conversion from a textual representation of a facility or topic e.g. Tony s Pizza or milk or of an address e.g. 123 Main St. Anytown Calif. to a location identifier such as a lat long coordinate pair. In such a situation the coordinate pair may have been stored in the location based data and the mapping module may access such data directly.

The mapping module may request the current location of the device and any location based data collected by the location scraper for the location engine . When the mapping module receives the location based data the mapping module can provide the information to a graphical user interface on the device for display on the device in a manner like that shown in . For example after the mapping module receives the device s current location it may transmit that location to server in order to have map tiles for the appropriate area returned to it and may determine what location based data extracted by the location scraper is in the vicinity of the of the device and load that location based data from memory e.g. from user storage .

In some cases the functionality described above in regards to may be split between computing devices. For example a remote computing device such as a PDA laptop or portable navigation device may include among other things applications and user data. A cartography application stored for example on a remote server may include a location scraper a location resolution module and a user data mapping module among other components. In this implementation the remote computing device may transmit user and application data to the cartography application which in turn can generate a map that may include geocoded user information. In other implementations a remote computing device may contain a cartography application that can include for example a location scraper location resolution module and a user data mapping module while a remote server can contain inter alia applications and user data. In this implementation a remote computing device may generate a geocoded map using application and user data supplied by a remote server.

Referring to a flowchart illustrates an exemplary process for creating a map that includes geocoded user information. At step a user data file is identified. In some implementations a location scraper can search user data for user files that are likely to contain location based data. In some implementations the location scraper may search files that have specified file extensions files that are located at a specified location e.g. at a particular web address or a user may designate target files for the location scraper to search. In some implementations a web application may be designated by for example the application s web address.

Where the data is stored on a server the location scraper may request that the web application send data files that may contain user information. Under some circumstances the location scraper may request a predetermined data file in others the data file may be dynamically generated by the web application. In other situations the location scraper may crawl the application s website and associated data storage and extract location based data. For example as discussed earlier the location scraper may access an application website and associated data storage for text or other data containing location information such as coordinate data addresses etc.

The method proceeds to step where location related data is scraped from the file. In certain implementations the location scraper may search user data files for location based data. For instance the location scraper may search and parse the user data files for street addresses road and intersection names coordinate data e.g. latitudes and longitudes and location names e.g. businesses cities towns states etc. . In addition the location scraper may search the data for key words e.g. hotel mall shoe repair etc. key phrases e.g. hotel near LaGuardia geographic features e.g. Dinkydome and driving directions e.g. from Chicago to Minneapolis . Such extraction may occur according to any of a variety of well known mechanisms. The extraction in this example occurs across multiple corpuses of data such as contacts task lists and appointments.

After location related data is scraped from the file or files the scraped data is classified into groups at step . In some circumstances the location scraper may sort the location related data into different categories based upon data type. For example the data may be sorted into the following categories street addresses road and intersection names coordinate data location names key words key phrases geographic features and driving directions. In an alternative implementation the data may be classified by the amount of processing that may be required before the data can be mapped. Data that may not require manipulation before it can be used by the user data mapping module e.g. coordinate data can be separated from data that may need processing by the mapping module e.g. key words and key phrases.

The data may then be submitted for conversion to a geocoded version of the data. For example a mobile device may submit the scraped location related information to a geocoding server which may return coordinate data for a location or locations that correspond to the location related information. Where the information has been previously classified according to the amount of processing needed to map the data certain of the data may be geocoded locally where such geocoding is relative simple and other information may be submitted to a remote server for geocoding.

The process may also further classify data into groups based on the type of event represented by the data such as based on the corpus from which the data was obtained. As one example all appointments may be placed in one group or may be flagged in a particular manner while all contacts are placed in another group. Such grouping may assist in the subsequent display of the events such as when different icons are to be used in the display of different forms of events.

After the data is classified into groups at step the location of the computing device is monitored at step . For example a mapping application may substantially continuously receive information from a GPS module on the device or otherwise receive updated location information for the device as the device travels around a geography.

Subsequently data at the current location is identified and displayed at step . For example the process may identify a location for device and a zoom level for a map around the device . Such information may be used to identify a bounding box that is the same size as the map to be displayed or is larger than the map e.g. when events that fall off the edges of the map are to be indicated . The process may search for all identified events e.g. contacts appointments etc. which may be stored in a table where one column of the table is a geocoded location of the events and identify all events inside the computed bounding box. In addition a query may be submitted to a remote server to find additional items in the appropriate area such as any grocery stores near the device where one of the user s events is a task to pick up milk and bread. Search results for such a query may be added to the data that is identified and displayed as an overlay on a map.

In some implementations the computing device s location may be transmitted to the user data mapping module for generation of the appropriate mapping data. Using the location related data the user data mapping module may create a map of the user s current location. For example the longitude and latitude of the device s current location may be transmitted to the user data mapping module . After receiving the location based data the mapping module may find a location in its reference map data that corresponds to the coordinates provided by the resolution module or may submit the location to a remote server for resolution of the location into mapping data for that location. When the device s location in the reference map data has been found the mapping module may load all map data points e.g. map tiles at the appropriate zoom level within a specified radius e.g. 5 miles or bounding box from memory or may mark the data for later processing.

Next the mapping module may use location based data supplied by the location scraper to determine what user information if any should be displayed over a map of the user s current location created by the mapping module . In some implementations the location scraper may send the location related data extracted from user data to the mapping module along with geocoded data for the location related data.

Once the location related data has been received the mapping module may find one or more locations in its reference map data that corresponds to the location based data supplied the location scraper . For instance the mapping module may initially define the boundaries of the map it will create e.g. the mapping module may only display map data within a five mile radius of the user s current location or data inside a certain bounding box. Next the mapping module may ascertain if certain location based data provided by the location scraper falls within the map boundary. In some implementations the mapping module may first determine whether location based data from the location scraper that may not need further processing e.g. coordinate data is outside the map boundary if so that location based data is excluded from the map. Then the mapping module may compare location based data that may require additional manipulation e.g. key words or phrases with the map boundary as noted above location based data that falls outside the map boundary will not be included in the map. For example the location scraper may provide the mapping module with the keyword hotel. The mapping module may generate synonyms for hotel e.g. inn or lodge and search its reference map data for locations that contain one or more of those words. The coordinates of map data if any that contain either a keyword or one of its synonyms may be compared with the previously generated map boundary and coordinate data falling outside the boundary may be excluded from the map. Generally however such ambiguous location related data will be geocoded or otherwise processed initially so that it can be tracked for inclusion inside a currently active window showing a map as a user moves.

When the position in the reference map data of both the user s device and relevant user data have been determined the mapping module may provide the data for generation of a map on a mobile computing device such as device . Such provision may occur locally where the data is assembled on the device itself or may occur as a transmission of data over a network such as the Internet from a server providing mapping services to a user of a computing device .

Once data at the current location has been identified and displayed the method advances to step . At step selection of an item e.g. an event or contact marker is received from a user and item detail is displayed. In certain implementations when the user desires information regarding a marker the user may select the marker and in response the mapping module may display the desired information in an information window . For example a user may select an icon showing a photo of one of the user s friends where the icon is displayed over an address in the friend s contact file and detailed contact information for the friend may be shown in a pop up box.

In some implementations an information window may be displayed automatically when the user comes within a predetermined distance of an event or contact. For example appointments in the very near future may be rare enough and important enough that they will display with a full information window under the assumption that a user will be immediately interested in such information. Alternatively the information window may be displayed in response to user interaction with the mapping system e.g. a keyboard stroke stylus or finger tap or other appropriate input e.g. voice . When displayed the information window may also be partially transparent as not to obscure the underlying map.

In certain implementations an information window can display information contained in user data that may be linked to a contact or other event. For example an information window for a contact may contain a contact s name address and home and work telephone numbers among other data culled from user data . In some implementations information gathered by the map system may be used in addition to or in lieu of information contained in user data . For example the map system may input the name of the contact or event into a search engine and may display the search results or a summary of the results in the information window . Likewise where an event is milk or a similar keyword the location related information may be obtained in response to a local search query of milk or grocery store in an area around a device and particular detail information from the search result e.g. address and telephone information for a business may be displayed in an information window .

In an alternative implementation the information window may also display data related to the user s relationship with the contact or event. For example the system using the device s current location and speed which may be provided by apparatus such as a GPS receiver and accelerometer within the device may calculate the user s estimated time of arrival at the location associated with a selected marker . Once calculated the map system may display the estimated time of arrival in the information window .

The mapping module or in other implementations the computing device may place the information window on the map in such a manner as to increase the number of markers that are visible on the map. In some implementations the information window may be contiguous to the window s associated event or contact marker as illustrated by contact marker s information window however in some circumstances if the window abuts its associated marker the window will block numerous other markers from view. To maximize the number of markers visible on the screen the mapping system may place the information window in area of the display that does not include any markers or includes the smallest number of markers . Alternatively the system may reduce the size of the window to a predetermined minimum window size to reduce the number of markers that the window overlays. The system may also place the window over an area away from the device s direction of travel so that area in front of the user are not obscured on a map.

In some instances an information window may display real time information related to an event or contact. For example an event marker can represent an event that may be routinely subject to delays or cancellations such as a flight or train departure. The system may in certain implementations query a data repository related to the event and display the event s status in the information window . In an illustrative example as a user is driving to the airport the mapping system may periodically check the airline s website for updated status information and include that information e.g. currently scheduled boarding or departure time in the information window .

Referring to a flowchart illustrates an alternative exemplary method for creating a map that includes geocoded user information. In general this method is similar to method in but uses a dedicated location tracking module to monitor location information for a device. Such a module may be a module separate from the mapping application which may be in the form of a service supplied by an operating system on a device. Various applications may register location based data with the module such as the locations or bounding boxes of objects that the applications want to track. The tracking module may store a list of such objects and their locations along with an indicator of the application that registered the object. The module may then constantly receive location information such as form a GPS module and compare that information to location information for stored objects. When there is a locational overlap the module may alert the appropriate application and may pass to the application the current location for a device.

In this manner a single module can manage tracking of location for multiple applications. The multiple applications do not each need to request information from a GPS module and thus may lower the processing overhead on the system and the power required to track location. At the same time each application may register its needs and may thus be notified and may react whenever necessary but only when necessary. In this manner efficient management of location related alerts and tasks may occur.

Referring now to the method steps and identifying user data files and scraping location based data from the files respectively are the same as steps and in thus the above description of steps and are equally applicable to steps and and will not be repeated here. At step location based data is registered with a location tracking module. For example certain data in the reference map data may be marked i.e. registered to indicate the position of location related data. In some implementations the location tracking module may be part of the location resolution module in others the location tracking module may be part of the location engine or another appropriate hardware device or software application. In addition the registered location based data may include hot spots i.e. map segments that in response to a user entering a corresponding physical location prompt the display of geocoded user information. For example when the user s location corresponds to an area inside a hot spot in the mapping module s reference map data the mapping module may populate the map of the user s current location with geocoded user information.

After location based data is registered with the location tracking module the location of the device is monitored at step . In some implementations the location tracking module may periodically request location information from the computing device . In an alternative implementation the location tracking module may calculate the location of the device using GPS technology or through trilateration using the location of base towers .

At step the user data location is triggered. For example the user may enter a hot spot and in response the mapping system may set a flag or other indicator noting that the next map display that is generated may include geocoded user information. Such triggering may occur by the location tracking module checking a list of register locations each time it receives new information about the location of a device. A list of registered locations may be sorted by the location tracking module so that locations that are currently closest to a device s current location are placed at the top of the list. In this manner the most relevant locations may be made readily available to the module.

In response to triggering the user data location the system may launch a user data application at step or otherwise make the application active. In some implementations the user data application may gather reference map data that includes the user s current location. For example the mapping system may launch the user data mapping module which in some implementations may request the device s current location from the appropriate entity and once the location is received load from memory reference data within a preset radius of the current location. Thus for example a mapping application may lay dormant as long as the user does not come near anything that is relevant to the mapping application but the application may be triggered automatically and displayed to the user automatically when a relevant event enters their area.

Finally at steps and data at the current location is identified and displayed and in response to item selection details regarding that item are displayed. The reader is referred to the discussion of steps and of for an exemplary method of performing steps and .

Also although the location for a map is indicated here as depending on data for the current location of a device other location based data may also be used. For example a user may enter a location as a query and the map displayed may be a map around that area. Thus for example a user may be planning a business trip to an area and may enter a zip code for the area into her computing device. She may then be shown a map of the area along with icons for her various contacts in the area automatically overlaid on the map. She may zoom and pan on the map in various familiar manners also independent of her current location.

The method begins at step where user information is received. In some implementations the user may input contacts appointments and tasks into a web application. For example a user may enter appointments into an online calendar program such as GOOGLE CALENDAR or other appropriate program. In an alternative implementation user information may be entered into a computing device such as a PDA laptop navigation system or the like.

After receiving user information at step the user information is registered at step . At step the information can be associated i.e. registered with a particular user account. For example after entering user information at step identifying information e.g. the name of user account may be linked to the user information. Subsequently the user information may be stored on a server at step .

Once the user information has been received and stored on the server the method advances to step where the user information is scraped for location related information. A location scraper may in some implementations comb the saved user information for location related data. The location scraper may parse text found in the user information for words phrases or numerical data indicative of a location. For example the location scraper may search for business names travel directions coordinate data etc.

At step a user may register to a user account with a second client device. In certain cases the user account may be related to one or more web applications. The user may register to a user account by for example logging into the user account with any necessary login information such as a user name and password from in an exemplary implementation a portable computing device. Once the user has logged in the server may authenticate the user s device at step . Authentication may occur by for example verifying that the username and password provided by the user are correct.

After the device has been authenticated location information is transmitted at step . The location information scraped from user information at step may be transmitted from the server to the client here the portable computing device which saves the location information at step . Such transmitted information may include coordinates for various events associated with the user along with descriptive information for the events so that the events may be displayed on a map to the user.

Next the movement of the device is monitored at step . For example the device may continuously determine its location using location tracking tools such as a GPS receiver. As the device monitors its location it may detect any location based data in the area at step . In some implementations when the device determines its current location at step it may search the location information provided by the server at step for any location information within a predefined distance of its current location or within a defined bounding box which may be for example a box the size of the current map view or a box larger than the map view e.g. several multiples of the map size on each side of the presently displayed map . For example the location information provided by the server may include coordinate data e.g. latitudes and longitudes . The client may for example determine which sets of latitudes and longitudes fall within a five mile radius of the device s current location.

If location based data in the area has been identified the method proceeds to optional step where user data relating to the location based data is obtained. In some implementations the client may request user data from the server related to the identified location based data. In response the server at step may transmit user data correlated to the identified location based data. For example in some implementations the location based data supplied by the server may be associated with a contact event or task in one or more online applications. The server may transmit the contact event or task information that corresponds to the location based data identified by the client. In an alternative implementation user data associated with the identified location based data may reside on the client.

Also periodic queries may be made to another server such as a local search server as a device moves. In particular queries may relate to keywords found in a user s personal data. Also keywords may take other forms such as to seek advertising or promotional materials in the area of a user. As one example if a user has an appointment for a flight a system may display advertisements for restaurants in the area of the arrival airport under the assumption that the user will not have eaten on their airplane and will be receptive to advertisements for food.

At step item detail is displayed. Item detail may be displayed in an information window contiguous to a marker on the map. For example an event s location duration and start time may be displayed in an information window attached to an event marker .

The method starts at step where user data is accessed by a user data module. For example the user data module may request user data e.g. contacts events and tasks from a server which in step serves the requested data to the user data module. A user may have previously entered such information or may have received the information from others such as using electronic business cards or via meeting requests . Subsequently the user data is filtered for location based data. For example the user data module may locate and extract information in the user data that may be related to a location. For example the user data module may extract monument names intersections addresses etc.

After location based data has been scraped or otherwise extracted at step location indicators may be registered at step . In some implementations the user data module may transform certain location based data e.g. place names and key words into coordinate data. For example the user data module may compare the place names and keywords with reference map data to determine whether any of the names and keywords correspond to a known location if so the matching place name or keywords may be associated that is registered with the corresponding known location. At step the location indicators may be accumulated. For example the location indicators may be grouped and stored.

At step the movement of the device is monitored by the location tracking module. In some implementations the location tracking module may receive periodic location updates from the device or the device may provide its location to the location tracking module in response to a request from the module. In other implementations the tracking module may determine the device s location using location tracking techniques such as performing a trilateration calculation.

Proceeding to step relevant location indicators are identified that match the current location of the device and in response the user data module is activated. In some implementations as the device moves the location tracking module may determine whether any location indicators are within a predetermined distance of the device. For example the device may be a PDA as the user travels the PDA may periodically notify the location tracking module of its location. The PDA may come within a preset distance e.g. 10 miles or x times the distance currently shown on a map of a location indicator that in this case represents a coffeehouse. When the location tracking module detects that the PDA is within ten miles of the coffeehouse by for example calculating the distance between reference map data representing the coffeehouse and the PDA the location tracking module may notify the user data module by transmitting a signal or other appropriate notification means.

In addition to identifying relevant location indicators and activating a user data module the location tracking module may transmit location information to the user data module which is received by the data module at step . In response to receiving the location information the user data module may display relevant location based information at step . For instance the user data module may populate the displayed map with markers representing location based user data. In an illustrative example as the user travels down a busy city street contact and event markers representing data contained in online applications e.g. nearby friends co workers and events may be displayed on the user s PDA.

Finally at step the user data module may display selected item details. In some implementations in response to user input the device may display information contained in online applications in an information window close to the marker. For instance the user may touch the screen where the marker is displayed or select the marker using a keypad mouse or other peripheral device. The system may respond by displaying contact or event information associated with the marker in an information window attached to the maker. For example when the user selects a marker corresponding to a task the status of the task may be displayed e.g. completed or pending the task s due date and any other applicable information.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements various aspects of a mapping system capable of geocoding personal information is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to connect to a mapping system capable of geocoding personal information and perform various functions some of which have been described above in relation to a mapping system running on the device upon request of a user of the mobile device.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for displaying configuring and viewing various applications. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 6GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 6 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that allow a user to fully implement and use various applications simultaneously. In some embodiments the computer program product includes functionality for accepting amendments to the software for example updating the computer program product to correct bugs or glitches in the software or hardware operations. In some embodiments the updating can include adding additional elements and features to the computer program product that improve its utility.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVA programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment. The application development platform may also use the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVA programming language and the Dalvik virtual machine.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDGETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for implementing a application manager using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals Cell Tower Triangulation Wifi Access Point Identification the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joing Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime which generally makes up a Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom JAVA compatible virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX as well as unmodified JAVA files .CLASS .JAR . With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries which generally make up the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs includes a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history an application monitor to monitor state changes in the applications and an application terminator to terminate one or more applications.

The applications which generally make up the MIDP applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a dictionary application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

The persistent core system services such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager are hosted by system processes although application processes such processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent. The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager not shown that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manager processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library application terminator processes associated with the application terminator and application monitor processes associated with the application monitor .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure. For example while the above disclosure uses the term telephony it is implied that other forms of communication that don t necessarily use telephones such as voice over IP systems are considered equivalent with regard to the ability to connect one person to another over transmission lines or wirelessly. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

