---

title: Pumped semiconductor laser systems and methods
abstract: A method for emitting laser radiation includes: emitting first laser radiation using a first laser, wherein said first laser is a laser diode; receiving the first laser radiation by a second laser comprising CdSeS(cadmium selenium sulfide, cadmium selenium, or cadmium sulfide), wherein x is between 0 and 1, inclusively; and responsive to receiving the first laser radiation by the second laser, emitting second laser radiation by the second laser via the CdSeS; wherein the second laser radiation has a wavelength between 487 nm and 690 nm; and wherein the wavelength of the second laser radiation is responsive to the value of x, which represents the relative concentration of selenium and/or sulfur.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07756175&OS=07756175&RS=07756175
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07756175
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081030
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present disclosure relates generally to optics and more particularly to pumped semiconductor lasers which emit light at a preselected wavelength.

A laser diode is a laser where the active medium is a semiconductor similar to the semiconductors found in light emitting diodes. One method of exciting the atoms in lasers called pumping is achieved by illuminating the semiconductor material with a high energy light source such as xenon flash tubes are lamps or metal vapor lamps.

Generally in optically pumped laser diodes the gain region of the laser is surrounded with an optical cavity forming a Fabry Perot resonator. In its simplest form a waveguide is formed on the crystal surface of the semiconductor confining the light to a narrow line. Photons emitted in a longitudinal mode of the waveguide may be reflected back and forth several times before being emitted from the laser. As the light is amplified by stimulated emission the laser begins to lase. The geometry of the optical cavity is such that when only a narrow beam of light is desired the vertical perpendicular to the semiconductor layer and horizontal width directions are sufficiently narrow on the order of the optical wavelength such that each supports only a single optical mode. The length of the waveguide is consistent with the longitudinal mode to be supported. In general the wavelength of the light emitted is dependent upon the band gap of the semiconductor and the modes of the optical cavity. Generally the maximum gain will occur for photons slightly above the band gap energy and the modes nearest the gain peak will lase with the most intensity. Some instability has arisen in laser diodes that operate at a single wavelength due to fluctuations in current or temperature. In particular there is a need for lasers that produce light in the green region of the light spectrum in a stable manner.

There have previously been attempts to address the green gap problem in semiconductor lasers where conventional green DPSS lasers create a need for a more stable system.

In the past in order to create lasers that lase at a particular wavelength such as in the green portion of the spectrum frequency doubling crystals have been utilized. By way of background crystal materials used in semiconductor lasers can exhibit nonlinearity which can give rise to the phenomenon of frequency doubling where an input pump wave generates another wave with twice the optical frequency i.e. half the wavelength in the medium. This process is also called second harmonic generation. In most cases the pump wave is delivered in the form of a laser beam and the frequency doubled second harmonic wave is generated in the form of a beam propagating in a similar direction.

The physical mechanism behind frequency doubling can be understood as follows. Due to the nonlinearity the fundamental pump wave generates a nonlinear polarization which oscillates with twice the fundamental frequency. According to Maxwell s equations this nonlinear polarization radiates an electromagnetic field with this doubled frequency. Due to phase matching issues the generated second harmonic field propagates dominantly in the direction of the nonlinear polarization wave. The latter also interacts with the fundamental wave so that the pump couples power from the pump wave to the second harmonic wave. For low pump intensities the second harmonic conversion efficiency is small and grows linearly with increasing pump intensity so that the intensity of the second harmonic frequency doubled wave grows with the square of the pump intensity. Once pump depletion becomes significant the further rise of second harmonic power becomes slower.

Frequency doubling is a phase sensitive process which usually requires phase matching to be efficient. Basically this means that the second harmonic field contributions generated at different locations in the nonlinear crystal coherently add up at the crystal s exit face. With proper phase matching and a pump beam with high intensity high beam quality and moderate optical bandwidth achievable power conversion efficiencies may exceed 50 . On the other hand the conversion efficiencies are typically extremely small when phase matching does not occur. In such cases the energy transferred by the nonlinearity quickly oscillates back and forth between pump and second harmonic wave rather than consistently going in a certain direction.

The lack of phase matching is also the reason why second harmonic generation is usually not accompanied by other processes such as sum frequency generation of the pump and second harmonic wave or second harmonic generation of the second harmonic wave itself phase matching for second harmonic generation usually does not imply phase matching for the other mentioned processes.

The present invention addresses the green gap problem lack of suitable lasers in the green area of the spectrum by utilizing II VI group semiconductor compounds. Examples of II VI group compounds used in conjunction with semiconductors are disclosed in for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 416 884 884 patent for Semiconductor Waveguide Structure of a II VI Group Compound by Hirata et al. hereby incorporated by reference. The 884 patent discloses a semiconductor waveguide structure utilizing clad and waveguide layers each formed of a II VI group compound semiconductor made of a II group element e.g. Zn Cd Mg Hg etc. and a VI group element e.g. O S Se Te etc. . In the 884 patent by a hetero epitaxy method thin films of a clad layer waveguide layers and another clad layer are formed on a ZnSe substrate. As an example in the waveguide layer formed of ZnCdSSea beam of a wavelength of 530 nm is utilized. The waveguide structure in the 884 patent comprises layers formed by a compounds of the formula ZnCdSSe where X and Y are each greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1 such as for example film layers of ZnCdSSeand ZnCdSSe.

A further example of the disclosure of a II VI Group semiconductor compound being used in a semiconductor laser is U.S. Pat. No. 5 317 584 584 patent to Mori et al. hereby incorporated by reference. In the 584 patent a sulfur selenium compound is utilized as a current blocking layer in a semiconductor laser due to the II IV group layer s high resistance. The II VI group compound semiconductor layers such as those disclosed in the 584 patent may include for example ZnSe ZnS ZnSSe ZnCdS or CdSSe.

In an article entitled Standing Waves and Single Mode Room Temperature Laser Emission From Electron Beam Pumped Cadmium Sulfide by J. R. Packard et al. IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics Vol. QE 5 No. 1 pp. 44 7 there is disclosed electron beam pumping in a direction perpendicular to the surface of the waveguide of a Cadmium Sulfide Laser which reportedly resulted in single self sustained axial mode of oscillation at roughly 520 nm and radiation outputted in a direction parallel to the input. During the experimentation process the maximum peak power was reported to be 14 watts.

The prior art also discloses Microcavity Lasing of Optically Excited Cadmium Sulfide Thin Films at Room Temperature in an article by D. M. Bagnall et al. Optics Letters Vol. 24 No. 18 Sep. 15 1999. The Bagnall article reports that poor room temperature luminescence is characteristic of CdS and that green emission from CdS is difficult to achieve at room temperature but that excitonic emissions at cryogenic temperatures have been reported for CdS grown on CaF. . . . The Bagnall article appears to show that room temperature green luminescence and lasing can be obtained by optically excited CdS thin films grown by pulsed laser deposition. However in the Bagnall article a CdSeSmicrochip laser system where 0 x 1 has not been fully optimized.

Systems and methods for emitting laser radiation are provided. An embodiment of a method for emitting laser radiation includes emitting first laser radiation using a first laser wherein said first laser is a laser diode receiving the first laser radiation by a second laser comprising SeS e.g. cadmium selenium sulfide cadmium selenium or cadmium sulfide wherein is a Group II element such as Cadmium and x is between 0 and 1 inclusively and responsive to receiving the first laser radiation by the second laser emitting second laser radiation by the second laser via the SeS wherein the second laser radiation has a wavelength between 487 nm and 690 nm and wherein the wavelength of the second laser radiation is responsive to the value of x.

An embodiment of a system for emitting laser radiation includes a first laser configured to emit first laser radiation wherein said first laser is a laser diode a second laser comprising CdSeS cadmium selenium sulfide cadmium selenium or cadmium sulfide wherein x is between 0 and 1 inclusively the second laser being configured to receive the first laser radiation and to emit second laser radiation responsive to receiving the first laser radiation wherein the second laser radiation has a wavelength between 487 nm and 690 nm and wherein the wavelength of the second laser radiation is responsive to the value of x.

Systems and methods for emitting laser radiation are provided. In this regard an embodiment of such a system provides continuous waves CW or pulsed laser radiation having a selectable wavelength between about 487 nm and 690 nm. This may be achieved by using a laser diode to pump a CdSeS cadmium selenium sulfide cadmium selenium or cadmium sulfide microchip laser that produces the desired wavelength wherein x has a value between 0 and 1 inclusively. As a result frequency doubling may be avoided so that power does not oscillate between competing longitudinal modes thereby achieving a higher efficiency and more stable output.

The microchip laser includes an emitter and a substrate . The emitter comprises CdSeS with x having a value between 0 and 1 inclusively whereas the substrate may comprise Silicon Carbide SiC or sapphire ALO3 . The laser diode the microchip laser the photodiode and the photodiode are mounted on the heat sink which helps to cool these components. The heat sink may be mounted on a Peltier cooler not shown in to help regulate the temperature of the system. The detailed process by which the emitter is fabricated is important. Previous attempts at fabricating CdSeShave relied upon thin film growth via a crystal growth method such as MOCVD Metal Oxide Chemical Vapor Deposition 

The radiation from the microchip laser may be monitored with the photodiode to ensure stable power output. The radiation and the radiation emerge from the active region as beams having elliptical cross sections. These beams project elliptically shaped radiation spots onto the microchip laser and the photodiode respectively. These elliptically shaped radiation spots are a fundamental characteristic of laser radiation emitted from semiconductor devices. The laser diode may be powered by a DC power supply not shown of approximately 5 volts via a p side electrode with the heat sink acting as an n side electrode. In a direct pumping configuration the radiation leaves the highly illuminated elliptical area on the emitter .

In some embodiments the radiation characteristic of the microchip laser maybe similar to conventional laser diodes since the microchip laser may have approximately the same dimensions as the active region in most direct current operated laser diodes. The radiation may emerge as a beam having an elliptical cross section with the long axis of the ellipse being parallel to the length of the microchip laser .

The emitter may be grown on the substrate by for example laser ablation or any other suitable method for producing very high quality films with low defect and impurity state densities. The quality of the deposited material is important to the proper functioning of the microchip laser .

The emitter may have a composition varying from pure CdS emitting at 490 nm to pure CdSe emitting at 690 nm. The emitter changes radiation wavelength in a linear manner from 490 nm to 690 nm as x varies from x 1 to x 0. The quantum efficiency however will be highest when the wavelength of the radiation is closer to the wavelength of the radiation . The emitter has a direct bandgap regardless of the alloy concentration chosen thereby allowing highly efficient laser radiation. The use of so called direct bandgap materials is well known to those skilled in the field.

Due to the rapid extinction absorption of light e.g. having a wavelength between about 375 nm and 450 nm in the emitter it may be very thin its thickness D may be on the order of for example 2 5 m. This is the effective depth that the emitter can be optically pumped. The width D may be for example about 5 10 m enough to support a fundamental transverse mode TEM of the radiation . The length D may be for example between 30 50 m or perhaps more depending on the gain length required to operate at a particular wavelength.

The emitter may have a refractive index n 2.5 giving the emitter air interface a reflectivity of only about 18 . Therefore the rear facet may be high reflection coated with MgF TiO SiOor similar dielectric coatings for the particular radiation wavelength chosen. The output facet may be coated with MgFor similar dielectric coatings to give the proper reflectivity to maximize the microchip laser output. The top facet may have a dielectric anti reflection coating fabricated with MgF TiO SiOor similar dielectric coatings so that the laser diode output may be efficiently coupled to the microchip laser .

The microchip laser receives the radiation and in response emits radiation . In addition to emitting the radiation the laser diode emits radiation via the active region . The radiation is received by the photodiode which is used to help regulate the laser diode . Similarly the microchip laser emits radiation onto the photodiode which is used to help regulate the microchip laser . The laser diode the microchip laser the photodiode the photodiode and the optical lens are mounted on the heat sink . The optical lens may be mounted onto the heat sink via a lens mount . The heat sink may be mounted on a Peltier cooler not shown in to help regulate the temperature of the system.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and protected by the following claims.

