---

title: Graphic-information flow method and system for visually analyzing patterns and relationships
abstract: A display control and information management system seamlessly integrates layered and slotted formatted data from local and remote sources to provide a highly versatile information display. The system permits selective control of display and display features so that complex data and data flows can be seamlessly accessed with enhanced cognition of salient information by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745529&OS=08745529&RS=08745529
owner: Tavusi Data Solutions LLC
number: 08745529
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081103
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 329 419 filed on Jan. 11 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. The application also claims priority to the following applications or patents. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 329 419 is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 007 387 filed on Oct. 22 2001 now issued and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 642 537 filed on Jan. 11 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 644 987 filed on Jan. 21 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 007 387 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 359 544 filed on Jul. 22 1999 now issued the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Throughout the ages humans have devised ways to record then examine their thoughts and mental images on paper. People draw depictions of events places projects and sets of objects. They chart scientific processes demographics weather conditions and mechanical systems and they diagram organizations trade routes music and inventions. These drawings aid both the originator and subsequent audiences in picturing spatial or symbolic relationships. Paper drawings and maps are representations of the real world but often the viewer must struggle to see only what is relevant amidst too much information. Transparent overlays can separate graphic information but are cumbersome and restrictive. Reference documents such as catalogues guide books atlases and encyclopedias gather together images and text descriptions but the user must flip back and forth between pages to find link and compare information.

Today computers are now being used to generate compile and retrieve such graphic records. However they have not as yet enabled viewers to smoothly call forth sets of graphic data to inform and stimulate a sustained multi faceted analytical thought process. For example computer programs that employ graphics layering are currently used to generate illustrations computer graphics drawings of designs CADD and searchable and thematic geographic maps GIS .

Computer graphics can be used to draw lines and shapes which may be organized into layers for overlapping and for showing and hiding before being output as a printed or digital illustration. CADD Computer Aided Design and Drafting is used to create plans of products vehicles buildings utility systems and other three dimensional objects. CADD employs layering technology to draft and show different views of a three dimensional object. A GIS Geographic Information System plots data on a map with layers of points lines and polygons representing land features. Each GIS feature has an entry in a database with its name a set of coordinates which may be real world latitude and longitude for positioning the feature on the screen and attribute data which may be shown in a separate window and queried to determine a set of features to be displayed.

These graphics making programs are used primarily by technicians to produce a singular image for publication and in limited ways for interactive analysis. However non technicians the public executives and experts in non computer fields cannot use them to easily access and manipulate selections of layered materials. Nor can they easily create or assemble their own sets of interactive layered data.

GIS Geographic Information Systems has come furthest in adding interactivity to computer generated images. Drop down menus graphics tools and palettes are used for customized map production this slow unwieldy process is of very limited use for multi faceted analysis. Networked GIS is used within corporate and government intranets to provide staff access to data displayed on geographic maps it is also used on World Wide Web sites for the public to find a street address or the location of one particular facility or type of facility see Serving Maps on the Internet by Christian Harder 1998 Environmental Systems Research Institute Inc. Redlands Calif. incorporated herein by reference as if restated in full. In addition to searching for addresses and facilities the interactive capabilities of current online GIS include zooming in and out and panning within a large digital map file.

A typical GIS often also has a large database with thematic information for places on the map. However current GIS does not provide for seamless access to subset combinations from extensive data sets. A legend table of contents or key shows a small selection of themes and the symbols associated with subsets within each theme. In some cases entire themes may be shown or hidden by clicking a check box next to the theme title on the legend however a particular subset within a theme cannot be shown or hidden. Current online GIS interfaces rely on the scrolling of palette scroll bars to extend the legend and to view selections for queries this scrolling breaks the flow of data selection and severely limits the organization and amount of data that can be accessed. Sometimes scrolling is also required to view the entire map and each subsequent iteration further breaking the flow of the analytical thought process. Annotational information when available is provided by going to a separate Web page or window and thereby the material is not viewed smoothly in direct association with the map feature.

Beyond layering software another relevant computer technology is hypermedia. Hypermedia is the linking technology for instantly retrieving text images or sounds. Its smart graphics respond to commands such as mouse clicks to hypertext or to a hot symbol on the computer screen often referred to as a button object icon or imagemap .

From 1990 to 1993 the inventor developed a hypermedia map making software program City View Town View HyperMapping making maps and map libraries on your computer. A Journal of Demonstration Projects and software manual self published by Barbara L. Barros Boston 1994 incorporated herein by reference . This program provided an interactive tutorial and tool with which novice computer users could make their own map libraries for a study of their neighborhoods cities or towns. The software program used the first widely available hypermedia software development tools APPLE COMPUTER INC. s two layered HYPERCARD. On the background layer of the map making software was a base map either drawn by the user or imported as a scan or GIS generated bitmap graphic. The user rendered sets of information on separate top layers using paint raster or bitmap graphics text fields and buttons which could link to new maps paint layers and text. The overlays were automatically indexed in a directory from which users could select layers to combine on a new aggregated map. However the layers were then fused together so the map could not be used to aid a flowing analytical thought process.

The primary intent of the City View Town View map making software was to enable civil servants and citizens to engage in exercises through which they could improve their awareness of local planning issues and opportunities. The software had several significant limitations 1 the map features were not objects and could not have data or scripts attached to them 2 map graphics could only be in black and white which reduced legibility and appeal 3 the software was dependent on APPLE s MACINTOSH operating system having limited distribution 4 users tended not to have or be able to afford base map data and 5 the large amounts of graphic data generated could not be stored on most personal computers or shared easily with others.

CD ROMs and the World Wide Web are at this time the two predominant means of delivering hypermedia. For organizing and displaying material these current hypermedia use GUI graphical user interface formats which are derivative. They draw from a combination of print publication equivalents software document creation conventions and video presentation methods.

CD ROMs were the first major application of hypermedia because of the vast storage capability for graphics and sound. These files are linked to create multi dimensional games training materials and reference sources. Current reference CD ROMS are organized to incrementally access graphic and text information on a single subject but are not presently designed to enable comparison and to enhance prolonged dynamic visual analysis.

The second major hypermedia application is the World Wide Web. Presently the technology favors lengthy text over graphics and graphics are commonly used as small link buttons and illustrations rather than as the core data set. While searchable GIS maps and ecommerce shopping sites are growing to be among the popular image intensive applications on the Web the quality of their interactivity and usefulness for visual analysis and comparison is extremely low. A complex quest is constrained by the slow speed of the Web s current infrastructure and its standard presentation methods.

For example the Web s current accepted practice of presenting material is based on a page to page metaphor related to print magazines. The magazine like vertical layout requires the scrolling of the page to accommodate the horizontal orientation of the computer screen. The page is made up of magazine like article illustration and ad components. The eye roams from component to component viewing each separately. Text is often lengthy. To obtain additional information hypertext symbols drop down menus or query forms are clicked to call up an entirely new Web page. Often the new material is at a different Web site with a different format. The viewer attempts with minimal success to carry in the mind s eye the sequence of information links and pages. The viewer must build a mental model of the findings of their inquiry instead of having this accomplished for them in the computer. It was this understanding and recognition of the problems with the prior art system that formed the impetus for the described embodiments.

The various embodiments generally relate to computer controlled graphic display systems. More specifically the embodiments provide systems and software for organizing and configuring large complex sets of graphic information for quick access and in depth analytical study. The embodiments enable the integration of information from many sources for viewing in a layered and slotted interactive map format.

First briefly in overview the described embodiments pertain to a computer technology employing a next generation computer interface multi media databases and a user tracking system to dynamically build a customized interactive mapset. The computer technology enables content producers to offer material as standard formatted data that can be picked up by users as they browse. The computer technology enables the user to seamlessly follow a sustained multi faceted analytical thought process by manipulating map components layers and annotations.

The graphic information flow method and system uses layering and hypermedia technology to maximize the flow of information insights and ideas during the process of inquiry. The described embodiments provide an external aid to enhance reflective cognition Things That Make Us Smart by Donald A. Norman Addison Wesley Publishing Company 1993 incorporated herein by reference as if restated in full . The described embodiments are a true browsing device for smoothly pursuing a question for analyzing exploring and discovering for comparing variations for studying patterns and relationships and for reaching well informed decisions.

The graphic information flow method and system is designed to enable continuous focused concentration so that the computer screen becomes an extension of the mind s eye. The described embodiments enable the user to seamlessly follow a sustained multi faceted analytical thought process by manipulating map components layers and annotations. Just the diagram pertinent to the moment is viewed free of distracting irrelevant information.

Unlike expert and artificial intelligence systems here the human being is the intelligent expert with the described embodiments serving to augment the human thought process. The users of the graphic information flow method and system are active participants. They gain knowledge and understanding through the hands on process of map making. Users customize information sets by selecting layers and filling slots then by querying to refine them. Individual analysis is further supported by providing marking tools to both stimulate and record insights.

The described embodiments combine hypermedia and layering technologies. They enable layers produced by graphics drafting and information systems to be organized and formatted into easy to use frameworks. Non technical producers can create multi dimensional interactive documents and reports for wide distribution. The maps can be accessed by non technical audiences either the general public or experts in a field of study.

The map based graphic information flow method and system can be used to significantly improve the ability to study almost any complex subject. By representing a place topic or thing in a multi dimensional map previously hard to recognize patterns and relationships can be discovered. These would otherwise not be apparent by attempting to view directly the place topic or thing or by more traditional analytical methods.

The method and system employs what is sometimes termed cognitive art visual representations that aid the comprehension of complex information sets. The Visual Display of Quantitative Information 1983 Envisioning Information 1990 and Visual Explanations 1997 by Edward R. Tufte Graphics Press Cheshire Conn. incorporated herein by reference as if restated in full . The term map is most commonly associated with a flat simplified representation of a landscape from above. A map can also be any visual portrayal of a geographic area or imaginary place including a cartographic diagrammatic photographic perspective or bird s eye view image or three dimensional model. As well a map can be a diagrammatic representation of a complex object the human body a vehicle a building . A map can also graphically portray a topic for which a set of pictures or words are understood more clearly in a series of subsets and in relationship to each other an organizational chart a chemical sequence or a set of scaled color images of possible plants for the garden of different heights and flowering seasons .

In relation to the described embodiments the important addition to any such picture chart diagram or graph that makes it a map is the provision of interactive keys. These keys do more than merely define map symbols. The interactive keys enable the user to quickly switch between views showing only selected subsets of interest at the moment.

The resulting ability to instantaneously customize views of information sets supports a mapping process of 1 setting out the significant features of a place topic or thing 2 defining the features relevant attributes 3 seeing what attributes various features have in common and how they differ 4 detecting how often or rarely features and attributes occur and in what patterns and 5 noticing the significance of their real or symbolic proximity to one another.

Understanding of the patterns and relationships often benefits from annotations viewed temporarily in association with map features. In the described embodiments text charts drawings photographs animations sound or video footage may be attached as annotations to map features.

The described embodiments combine a diagrammatic map with illustrative pop ups. This dual view design reflects the analytical mind s eye process of switching back and forth between the overview structural image of a subject and close up eye level views or vignettes of particular features. To aid this mental process two perspectives can be seen at once. First the content of the overview is pulled apart and organized into layers or matrices. Second the descriptive feature view is shown directly in association with the feature s place on the overview.

The overview enables examination of numerous meta representations of the whole place topic or thing. By switching groups of features in the layers or slots the viewer can focus on studying patterns and relationships within particular subsets of the whole.

Individual features can be examined up close via pop up annotations. For the same reasons that sidebars summaries and sound bytes are useful and effective the material in these descriptive close ups is stripped to the essentials and consolidated into graphic representations and short text. These annotations are accessed in digestible chunks within pop up flip thru storybooks. The viewer studies an introductory pop up card then can click to go forward or backward in a series of flip cards which further describe the map feature. In the storybooks short flip card animations are used to economically create dramatic explanation. When animation and video is used in pop ups it is in the form of short clips. Animation and video is used not to purely entertain. Its purpose is to clarify or explain the character and multi dimensional aspects of a place or object product assembly procedures or the pattern of a movement such as a rock climbing maneuver or a hurricane s path. Pop up materials are concise in order to augment and enlighten but not distract from the study of the map overview.

The graphic information flow system is perceived as a set of maps an atlas or a catalogue. Thereby the body of information attains the feeling and credibility of a single reference object even though materials may be pulled dynamically from many sources. The described embodiments enable data from these numerous sources to be stored in a common format so that for each user material is gathered during the browsing process into a personalized mapset.

One embodiment provides an online alternative to reference books such as product catalogues yellow pages directories travel guidebooks entertainment listings encyclopedias natural history guides text books machine manuals and land use planning reports. Another embodiment can also provide an online specialty store where consumers can ask to see and compare all the available offerings for a particular item from a multitude of manufacturers and distributors. As well another embodiment can be used to create an image based library for comparing similar objects such as ceramic vases volcano eruptions colonial churches and butterflies.

With the graphic information flow system producers of information gain by being able to reach viewers more effectively than by current print and electronic methods. At this time Internet producers put up a self standing Web site which viewers must learn of and locate usually via a search engine and then must browse through to find one piece of information at a time. The various embodiments enable the creation of digital repositories with standardized formatting to aggregate data from many sources. With the graphic information flow method and system the value of every piece of information is increased exponentially by being easily viewable in proximity with other related information. Viewers can comparison shop for products travel plans and points of view.

Pop up annotations augment without breaking the comparison process. Each pop up is a sidebar like annotation to the body of information on the main viewing area of the map therefore viewers are more likely to take a few moments to explore the descriptive material without fear of getting lost. The map remains the orientating device to come back to. Viewers feel in control and can digest the descriptive material at their own pace. Pop ups about geographic sites have added power because they are seen and remembered in association with the site s location. Pop ups can serve as an effective and useful advertising mechanism sought after by prospective consumers. Unlike Web banner ads viewers are actually asking to see the ads or info tizements because they are associated with the topics the viewers are researching.

With the annotation and publishing tools users of the graphic information flow method and system can define new features and attributes to contribute to a mapset and can post new layers and mapsets online to share with others. The graphic information flow method and system is intended to take publishing beyond the single source broadcast model to the many to many model. At the same time it is intended to provide the ability for respected experts and information integrators to create tangible credible branded hubs that take responsibility for the quality of the content they make available.

The graphic information flow method and system for visually analyzing patterns and relationships is a computerized reference map system for assembling and integrating a set of materials about a place topic or thing in order to enhance the flow of information during the process of searching for knowledge and insight. A database derived map displays representations of a place or a set of objects to be compared. This single compact computer user interface with layered indexes keys and content enables discrete sets of material from a dispersed network of large multimedia databases to be accessed smoothly and repeatedly.

The method and system software uses layered and slotted maps with clickable map keys. The viewer manipulates map components content layers and annotations by clicking symbols. Clicking symbols on map keys and query boxes shows and hides graphic features with requested attributes. The features are organized in map layers and slots. Clicking map features shows and hides text messages and pop up annotations about the features. The viewer thereby easily studies features in context with other relevant graphic information. The various embodiments provide for smoothly calling forth a set of graphic data to inform and stimulate a sustained multi faceted analytical thought process.

The software may be deployed as a stand alone application and on enterprise intranet and internet networks. It may be used in traditional personal computers and in future computer systems employing screens that may be flat wireless and or pressable or pen responsive that may be larger or smaller than current PC screens and that may be as portable thin foldable or rollable as a paper map or chart see .

The graphic information flow method and system for visually analyzing patterns and relationships is realized through computer software. Template computer software is configured to publish a set of materials in a format that the user can smoothly browse. The software calls from a multimedia database to display a graphical user interface GUI and alter it in response to user commands. The GUI has a central layered or slotted map area surrounded by control panels.

The software employs smart graphics as symbols on maps and control panels. The graphics are smart in that they can be programmed to respond to user commands calling to a database to cause an action. Users click control panel keys and query boxes to fill map layers and slots. Users point at and click smart graphics on the maps to call forth annotational text images sound and video. Users at the back end and front end create drag reshape reprogram and otherwise change smart graphics with editing tools.

The graphic information flow system software template consists of GUIs graphical user interfaces multimedia databases and the software for configuring and operating the maps. The GUI is designed to permit operation on a variety of existing and future hardware devices and the software can be developed using commonly available software languages database programs and electronic information systems.

Software on the server and client performs a number of functions. The template software enables customization of the database features attributes symbols annotations and topic organization of the GUI layout and of the animation and query configurations. GUI and database tools are provided for initial mapset creation and subsequent editing by authorized editors dynamic databases and public users. Software components include map and database interfacing dynamic generation of graphics imagemaps and code and user tracking and activity reporting. Directory and query box formatting automatically turns text lists into formatted top layer graphics with retrieval bars and key extenders as necessary. The software uses smart graphics to provide for interactive keys and map features map graphics layering and slotting querying and notation and publishing tools. The software also accommodates signaling from input output devices such as GPS and adaptation to future input output and selector devices.

Special control apparatus are used extensively throughout the system s graphical user interfaces to retrieve layered indexes keys and map content. These special control apparatus enhance the ease of browsing while accommodating the size and resolution limitations of the computer screen. These preferred special control apparatus are designed to improve operation but are not required and do not preclude use of other special control apparatus.

Five special control apparatus augment the index key and map configurations. First message boxes within the map area show updateable text data. The message is typically 1 the name and other tabular data for a feature in response to the cursor pointing to the feature or 2 data for a set of features which is updated dynamically as time sensitive information is changed in the database. Small message boxes also may appear as pop up feature labels atop the map. Message boxes may be used for the viewer to type text input. Second retrieval bars are used for switching information in indexes keys message boxes and pop ups. Retrieval bars use graphical or alphabetical segments that provide an improved alternative to traditional scroll bars. Third key extenders revise control panel and message box content via overlays and pop ups. Key extenders provide means for selecting additional feature attributes and for switching topics and sets of keys or message box contents. Keys are extended by clicking on topic titles or arrows. Fourth query boxes that may be in the form of key extenders or map area pop ups provide means for selecting multiple attributes for a complex query. A query is requested by clicking a button and the results are returned by updating the map area. Fifth are user editing and publishing tools along with interactive how to guides and tutorials that take new users through notation and publishing procedures.

Having the foregoing objects and functionality in mind attention is now directed to a specific embodiment. Referring now to the embodied system is first presented in functional block diagram form. Specifically the system includes one or more workstations or other personal computer devices with both local programming and communication to a remote server . This server includes additional programming to assist operation and a central multimedia relational database and containing a number of support databases stored in high capacity memory. Exemplar memory modules include Base memory and Topical memory . In this context select mapping elements commonly known as Base elements will be stored in the Base memory module and the Topical elements in the Topical memory module. As database entries these elements are available for high speed delivery to each of the personal computer devices either sequentially or concurrently via the network link . A user tracking memory module stores data about each user s activity. To enhance this dynamic capability the system includes an expanded link to the Internet or other network connections so that the vast array of Internet or network source materials may be accessed and combined with the base and topical data of the central database and thus become available as information for mapping onto the selective two dimensional display. In addition to the role as a source for database information the Internet and other network connections permits remote process control of the database content including access and editing functionality via the personal computer devices . shows alternative personal computer devices such as a high resolution large scale flat map display b large scale wall mounted display c wireless portable map and remote server d portable flexible roll up flat map display e portable fold up flat map display and f map expands and contracts as display is stretched or folded.

Turning now to the system components are depicted in exploded view format. In these diagrams arrows are used to indicate command and data flows. depicts the primary command and data flow between the client and the server. To permit the seamless custom data flow to the presentation the system display includes a map area for imaging the map elements as recalled from the server . To control data selection and access an interactive control panel with map keys is displayed on a portion of screen real estate with selections thereon governing the map area. When the User causes a user event such as a mouse click to the map or control panel a sequence of software commands occurs reflected by the arrow to the Client side Software . A browser program . parses the request and runs the client agent software . which may consist of HTML Javascript CGI Java ActiveX and or other code. The client agent software processes the request and alters the map area image reflected by the arrow back to the display. If a complex query additional graphic files or updated information is required the client agent sends a request to the server software and multimedia relational database that may reside on the client or across a network on another computer. This request triggers a sequence of events which gathers and assembles the graphic material on the server and sends it back to the client for display.

As is discussed in detail in elements comprising separate layers are stored in addressable databases including central server files and databases comprising base and topical data sets graphics files and user tracking database wherein the grid depiction reflects data fields for each cell. The server software first uses a daemon . to report to the user tracking system in order to record the event and to retrieve relevant information about the history and state of user s map and any files on user preferences or from a user s intelligent agent. The server software then calls a database access daemon . to query attributes as necessary and to look up in the databases such information as feature name symbol x y location z layer and annotation display data. The server then uses the results to determine which graphic files to retrieve how to plot and layer them and how to reconfigure the interactivity of the graphics such as imagemaps the areas of the map which respond to user events . The resulting GIF and imagemap coordinates and scripts are sent back to the client for display.

A user uses special control apparatus to signal for instance by clicking or dragging or other suitable indication means that a visual representation of a portion of the control panel document should appear or be collected in the map slots or subsequently removed from the map or altered within the map. These visual representations may be words symbols or images or a combination of words symbols images and the like. Once these representations are displayed in the map additional control apparatus within the map area may be used to remove or reshow their display change their appearance or associated data alter the look and or content of the control panel document and alter the look of smart graphic objects and special control apparatus in the map and control panel . By pointing the cursor at a smart graphic object in the map or control panel document a user requests text or graphic data to be retrieved from the database and displayed in the message box . By clicking on a smart graphic word set symbol or image in the map or in the document the user requests a pop up annotation about that which is represented by the word set symbol image. Alternatively clicking on a word set symbol or image in the map can call forth in the control panel area enlargements information text and visual descriptions represented by the word set symbol or image. A special control apparatus such as a button or the like may be used to show in the control panel area graphics and or text for all or a portion of the set of images and words that have been collected in the map. Once collected the object may be manipulated or removed and the original document may be redisplayed.

As shown in such an embodiment provides a system for the collection of word sets symbols images or other representations while undertaking research through many documents reading a lengthy or complex document or viewing another slotted and layered map. The collected word sets symbols or images remind the reader of previously viewed content. These representations may be rearranged and have their look changed within the map to categorize compare study patterns and relationships or otherwise analyze data or make decisions about the data represented by the collected word sets symbols or images. A word set symbol or image in the map may be clicked or otherwise manipulated by the user or by additional software to have data related to it shown in the control panel area. Special control apparatus can be used to display data related to all the collected word sets symbols or images or subsets of the collected word sets symbols or images in the control panel area. Thereby the document serves as a key the user controlled means of access to computer data that may be collected in map slots and layers.

The graphic information flow system can display images representing any place topic or thing. Three types of map layout within GUIs Graphical User Interfaces are shown in . The layered map is used for sets of features with relative spatial locations that can be positioned by x y coordinates. The slotted map has sets of discrete features positioned in a grid for comparison or in a chart with slots placed to represent features relationships . Each layout starts with a base map and a control panel . The user clicks the key to select one topic for display . Also illustrated in the user may point at a feature on the map to view text data in the message box. To compare features the user selects from the key another topic or attribute subset for display and comparison this may be repeated to show and compare other topics clicking the key topic a second time deletes that feature from the display. In the user clicks on a map feature to view a pop up annotation. The interactive pop up appears in an area away from but near the feature which is now highlighted.

At the bottom of the drawing a series of GUIs as seen above in are shown. The broken lines indicate command sequences from the GUI to access the data via key mouse selection from the Topical Database . In operation the User click to topic AA on the control panel key alters the map display and displays that topic. Specifically the system retrieves the source data from the topical database and determines the symbol pattern and color for AA attribute . Thereafter the system provides the slots or layers corresponding to the AA attribute as indicated by the X s in the column headed by the AA designation . All corresponding data items with the AA attribute are then placed on the Map area .

In operation of the user points to one feature on the map to view text data about the feature. The software determines the slot or coordinate of the cursor and finds the slot designation or x y coordinate in column of the database . The software retrieves the name from column and text description of the feature from column . It displays this text data in the message box and or the name in the label positioning the label near the feature.

In operation of another feature DD is selected and this is used to find corresponding entries from the topical database as indicated by the X s in the column under the DD attribute. These features are then presented on the screen available for User review.

In operation a click on a feature causes the display of an interactive pop up annotation . When the pop up appears the feature on the map that was clicked is highlighted to retain the connection between the annotation and the feature. The configuration of the pop up is determined by the data in columns and informing the software as to which graphics text and sound to retrieve from the file . The pop up itself may be interactive with mouse clicks triggering animations or causing new pop up cards to be displayed .

In order to call forth another mapset the user clicks an index or a context map or diagram . The context control shows the present location of the current map in the mapset. Clicking its highlighted areas calls up the master directory or switches to other maps. The other maps may be another representation of the same data or a related information set.

The initialization of the program navigation to the desired mapset and manipulation of the interactive map are depicted generally in the flowchart of and begins with the start up when the User clicks on the program icon to enter the system. The resulting actions include the recording of a User ID in the user tracking system and the system calling up the program from a CPU CD ROM network or internet server. The start up screen is displayed with a base map or a directory of available mapsets. A directory may have a text or graphic table of contents or index or it may be a single graphic representation of the contents such as a world map or other overview image or a combination of the two. The how to event is optional and may be accessed at any point. It involves the User clicking on a how to button. The program calls up a screen or animated overlay with information about how to use the program. This may be a short animated sequence on top of a view of the directory if applicable or on top of a view of a base map. In the directory or base map key Users may be given a choice of written languages which is noted as a variable and referenced whenever words are displayed.

If the software includes a directory the User may click on a directory extender control apparatus. The directory will then be revised. The program will call up additional subdirectory text or zoom in on a world map or overview image. This process is repeated until the desired mapset is identified by title or image. The selection of the desired mapset is accomplished via event in which the User clicks on a mapset title or image. The program displays a base map for a mapset of a place topic or thing. The selected mapset is recorded in the user tracking system and subsequent user events are also recorded .

Once the base map is displayed the User will use the control panel key to select the first topic set for display on the base map. The User may first need to click on the key extender to revise the key in order to view the desired feature set. The User clicks on a key symbol and the feature set is displayed on the map. To accomplish this the program searches in the database and recognizes the feature set layer associated with the x y coordinate of the mouse click see Operation . The program finds the column in the topical database for the requested feature set. If part of the database is designated for symbols or a symbol is associated with the topic column the program notes the symbol designated to represent the topic and finds rows with that column checked see . If part of the database is designated for images or image is associated with the topic column the program notes which rows have an image. For each checked row the program retrieves the symbol or image from the graphics file or cached images on the client and displays it at the designated x y coordinate or in the designated slot replacing the graphic of the base map.

If the symbol is not a rectangle the program determines its shape. The shape may be a set of points for a line or polygon or a bitmap graphic with a mask. The program alters the map only for the area within the symbol. If the symbol typically a shape or polygonal area is designated as transparent the program calculates the alteration of the underlying map colors within the area. For gridded slots each showing images of similar objects for comparison the appropriate feature of the object is highlighted. For layers or slots a highlight may be an outline or filled shape it may be opaque or a transparent tone altering the color of the underlying image.

If the User clicks on the same key symbol the feature set is deleted on the map. The program repeats the actions of but deletes the symbol or images by displaying the appropriate portion of the base map image stored in the user tracking database in its place. If the User clicks on a symbol or label in a query box or enters text in a query box the feature set is displayed on the map by another means as follows. The program repeats the actions of but searches for multiple columns to be checked or searches for text matches in a column. It displays a symbol image or highlight at the designated x y coordinates or in the designated slot replacing the graphic of the base map.

The User then will click another key symbol or query adding a new feature set to the map. The program repeats the actions of but does so in comparison with other symbols images or highlights currently displayed see Operation . If two symbols have the same coordinates or overlap the program uses an algorithm to adjust the placement of the symbols so that all or part of both are visible and determines which should be displayed on top of the other. If the topics use patterns colors or highlights as symbols the program determines a third combined pattern color or highlight to signify its representation of two attributes or for the overlap. For an and query the program will hide previously visible symbols for features that do not have all the attributes. This action may be repeated to add other symbols and keys for visible features may be clicked to hide their symbols.

Two means of viewing annotational material about map features are described. First if the User points with the cursor mouseOver at a feature symbol on the map a message and label may be displayed see Operation . The program searches in the database and recognizes the feature associated with the x y coordinate of the mouse location. If there is a message box on the map the program displays text from the database in the message box of the map. If labeling is being used the program reads the name for the feature from the name field. It calculates the size of the label based on the number of characters and the width of the font being used to size the label. It displays a label with the name next to the map symbol or in the slot the label may have a line that connects the symbol to the label set at a distance to allow viewing of the area surrounding the symbol. A default location in relationship to the map symbol or slot determines its positioning. If the label would go outside of the map area or is too long for the slot the program shifts it to an acceptable position. When the User moves the cursor away from the symbol mouseOut or clicks the symbol the label is hidden but the message box information may remain.

Second if the User clicks on a map symbol the program displays a highlight around the map symbol and a pop up is displayed. The program searches in the database and recognizes the feature associated with the x y coordinate of the mouse click see . If the row has pop up annotations the map symbol is highlighted and the first pop up card is assembled as described in the database see . The program calculates the quadrant or portion of the map within which the x y coordinates of the map symbol are located. It then determines another appropriate quadrant or portion of the map over which the program will display the pop up. It then replaces that quadrant or portion with an image that combines the shadowed pop up edged by the visible map graphic surrounding the pop up.

The pop up itself may be interactive. If the User clicks on a pop up hot spot a button object icon or imagemap the pop up is altered see . The pop up displays additional information including links to other graphic and text data animations and sounds based on information in the database see . If the User clicks on a pop up corner the pop up changes to a new card. The program retrieves the next or previous pop up card based on information in the database see FIG. . For written languages that read from left to right clicking on the right corner calls the next pop up card and clicking on the left corner displays the previous card. This may be reversed for languages that read from right to left. Forward and back arrow symbols may be placed on the corners.

If the User clicks on a symbol or map while the pop up is showing the pop up is hidden. The highlight of the map symbol is deleted and the original map replaces the pop up in the quadrant or portion of the map. Clicking a key symbol also hides the pop up before altering the map display. The program may be set up so that clicking on another visible map symbol will simply replace the contents of the pop up and reposition it if appropriate.

If the User clicks on a notation tool for text lines or shapes in the control panel optional the cursor changes to the I beam for text or a cross for a line or a shape . The User presses on the map and types or drags. Upon release text line or shape notations are made on top of the map and recorded in the user tracking system. The notation layer symbol is highlighted on the key additional notation layers may be provided . When the User clicks on a key symbol for the notation layer the notations are hidden or shown.

User editing is optional for public users this is the process whereby authorized Editors add information via a password protected back end interface see . When an Editor or User clicks on a symbol tool in the control panel or in an edit or tools menu a new symbol is created. A copy of the selected symbol is positioned on an appropriate place on the control panel or map. The new symbol is hidden and shown several times to call attention to it. When the Editor User presses on the new symbol and drags to a position on the map the symbol is moved. The symbol is repeatedly repositioned to the x y coordinate of the cursor. If the cursor moves beyond the map boundaries the symbol stays at the edge of the map. When the Editor User releases a row is added to a database with the symbol an ID number and its x y coordinates.

Authorized Editors changes are entered in the base map or topical databases as appropriate. For public users the row is added to the user tracking system database within a user added layer associated with the User ID. A data entry dialog box appears in which the Editor enters name message information and pop up data this is optional for public users. When the Editor User enters a name and other data and clicks OK the data entry dialog box disappears. The name and data are entered into the database row of the new symbol and then are called up when the User clicks a new symbol . If the Editor User does not press a new symbol or clicks cancel in the data entry dialog box an alert message appears asking the User if they want to delete the symbol. If the User clicks yes or cancel the alert dialog box disappears and the new symbol is deleted. If no the data entry dialog box reappears. If the Editor User clicks the delete symbol tool and clicks on a user added map symbol a symbol is deleted from the map and the row is deleted from the database. An Are you sure dialog may appear before doing so and the User may thereby cancel the deletion.

Editing may also be done via a database interface. If the Editor User clicks on view database in the control panel or in the edit or tools menu the appropriate portion of the database appears in the map area. Any fields that may not be edited are grayed. The Editor User may add rows and enter text in the database. The Editor User may toggle between the database interface and the revised map to view and modify changes.

Users may save print and publish their mapsets . When the User clicks on the save button or menu the mapset is saved. When the User clicks on the print button or menu the mapset is printed. When the User clicks on the publish button or menu the mapset is published online.

An exemplar GUI Graphical User Interface layout and its components shown in is designed to organize information from an extensive complex data set. The special control apparatus maximize ease in retrieving subsets from the database. The navigation to the desired map can be accomplished via an optional index on the left by clicking on bar segments and list items. Retrieval Bar for switching categories of mapsets and Retrieval Bar for switching subcategories of mapsets call forth clickable lists of mapsets within the selected category and subcategory. The example shows a list organized in alphabetical order. Retrieval Bar is used for calling forth additional list information. The highlighted segment designates the portion of the list that is displayed clicking another letter calls up the portion of the list starting with that letter. Clicking on a map name in the list brings its base map into the Map Area. Orientation and navigation within a set of maps is accomplished via the Context Map in lower right which shows the location of the present map within the next higher level map. Clicking outside its toned area calls forth the next higher level map zoom out . Zoom in capabilities are provided via a key accessed layer showing clickable zoom in areas on the main map. Clicking on the Home icon upper right retrieves the top level map of the mapset.

Upon retrieving the desired mapset with its basemap visible in the Map Area the user may click on the Topic Selector to retrieve site or object information for a particular topic in several ways. Clicking the underlined topic name will replace the base key with a topic related key. Clicking on the box to the left of the topic name will call forth a query box in the key or as a pop up see . Clicking on the down arrowhead will replace the topic list with a list of subtopics. The retrieval bar above the list shows the number of levels of topics and subtopics including and above the current subtopics list clicking a segment will return to the higher level topics list. Clickable keys are used to show and hide overlays to the basemap in the Map Area. The key shows a set of symbols when a symbol is clicked the software calls to the database to show all that type of site or object positioned properly on the map. Keys for additional types of site or object are accessed by clicking on the next and back arrowheads at upper right of key as shown in .

The central Map Area displays the content as sets of map symbols. Map symbols for sites and objects with information in the database are hot. Pointing at a symbol will call forth into the message box the site object s name and descriptive material. The message box is also used as a title bar to display the mapset title and subcategory title as shown in . Clicking on a map symbol will cause it to become highlighted and a pop up to appear in a part of the map other than that in which the symbol is located. The pop up has interactive annotational material about the site or object. The material in the pop up may be presented on multiple cards that are retrieved via the segmented retrieval bar at the bottom of the pop up. Special theme keys may be provided below the map. Sponsor name and message may also appear in this belowbar. Publisher editor and access to use restrictions and other reference information may be located in the key or belowbar.

In an example is provided depicting the use of the present system for assessing sophisticated geographic information. The series illustrates how a vast amount of information can be organized within a single small screen and how its layered data can be retrieved by means of exemplar special control apparatus. The sequence begins with a user browsing a series of interconnected geographic maps. Beginning with screen display a base map of the world is provided in a two dimensional presentation. This interactive layered map can be easily reconfigured by the user. In this display the control panel includes the following topics specific to the first base map 

In this example the User has selected the Current Events topic in the control panel resulting in a second key of subtopics 

The user wishes to view the time in different cities of the world weather and news. As new data are called for the system pulls from third party databases and public information Web sites and it dynamically refreshes the display with the most current entries. Pointing at a hot news symbol has called forth a headline in the message box clicking it would call forth an interactive map of the news site in place of the world map. Further maps on weather as well as geographic information on news stories can be called up by clicking on the Current Events key. In the user changes the cities on the clock and map by clicking on a city name to call forth an overlay selector list. The viewer selects a new city by clicking Athens on the list the city circle moves to the position of Athens and the name and time of Athens replaces those of the previous city from that portion of the world map. Clicking the clock name again hides the selector list.

The interactive world map is also used as a directory to an extensive map atlas. The world map can be clicked to zoom into regional mapsets or the index listing the map locations to left of map can be used see . The index can be clicked to show other world maps the retrieval bar at its top can call up lists of continent country state and region maps. In this scenario the user clicks Travel Planning on the topic index to right of map and the related key appears below shown in . The user then clicks Travel Packages in this key. shows that a new control panel has now replaced the key it can be hidden by clicking the topic selector Travel Planning . The and arrowheads in the key can be clicked to flip forward and backward to view additional travel packages. The user has selected a city of origin and a week by clicking on the up and down arrowheads. Symbols then appeared on the world map showing available trips. Pointing at the Hawaii map symbol has caused descriptive information to appear in the message box and belowbar below the map . Clicking on the belowbar arrowhead would call forth data on additional packages. Clicking on View would place interactive descriptive maps images and text on top of the world map clicking View again would hide the description. Clicking on a continent name below the map would call forth a continent map showing travel packages.

The user now clicks on Hawaii on the world map or the index of . Note that an alphabetical retrieval bar can be used on the bottom of the location index at left to scroll through the list. The user has proceeded from a full map of the islands to a map of the Big Island of Hawaii by clicking on the context map at lower right. Clicking on the Beach symbol on the key has caused symbols for beaches to appear on the map. Clicking on the belowbar special theme selector has called forth an overlay showing the area covered by rainforest. Pointing at a natural features symbol for Akaka Falls on the map causes its name to appear in the message box clicking the map symbol pops up a description. The pop up itself has several interactive features. Clicking the speaker symbol on the pop up would run an audio video clip of the waterfall in place of the photograph. Clicking on plant names would cause an image of the plant to appear in place of the waterfall. The retrieval bar at the bottom of the pop up shows that there are four cards in the pop up with the first showing clicking other segments would call forth other interactive cards about the subject.

In the user has clicked to zoom into a nature reserve and intersects with the mapset and database of the naturalists studying the area. The visitor can get a picture of what the hiking trails are like and learn about the ecosystems. The scientists create and study the interactive maps to discern relationships between various elements of the environment. In the example a biologist compares overlays showing the location of plants and animals to study how they coexist. The biologist has selected specific insects and plants for display via the categories at the top of the key. He has chosen to view only the territory of one insect and one plant to study their interrelationship and their relationship to the general land form. Numerous other layers can be shown and hidden quickly via the key. In this way only the set of material of interest at the moment is viewed without distraction of irrelevant information. The biologist has clicked on the Plant Species key box to access the database. The query box has appeared and is being used to identify and map other species having certain criteria. The characteristics are clicked on the list at the left of the query box and they appear as selections at right. The retrieval bar at the bottom left of the query box calls forth other choices. Once all criteria are selected clicking on the plot query button maps species that meet the criteria. A clickable list appears in place of the key the list can be hidden and recalled by clicking on the Plant Species key label.

The results of the plant species query may also be viewed in a slotted map by clicking on the Grid or Graph selectors in the key as shown in shows a comparable display for a selection of insects. This type of slotted map serves as a catalogue for viewing and comparing objects side by side. The interactive key enables further queries and the showing and hiding of features. The highlight capability can call out a particular common feature on each image e.g. the thorax the wing s subcosta vein and may gray the rest of the image. The material in the slots may be layered to show cross sections of things such as an insect s internal anatomy. An interactive pop up flip thru storybook provides descriptive material about each object note the subject headed retrieval bar. The biologist views images of plants and insects collected in the study area along with those that have been archived. The biologist can also access via the internet other researchers information on similar species from islands around the world. Over the years a database is compiled from field investigations. Weather data is collected and updated dynamically from field stations. The scientists have used the back end interface to add their research data via both a database interface and a map interface. The biologist views a chart of weather data onto which can be layered time periods related to biological processes. He looks for cause and effect by studying the hatching of an insect the blooming of a flower and the patterns of sunny rainy and foggy days via the species key below and the pattern analysis key at right.

In the user signals the request to collect a symbolic representation of a portion of the document s content by clicking a checkmark button dragging an image or text up to the map area or by some other method. The symbol then appears in a layer or slot in the map and the system alters the look of associated graphics such as highlights checkmarks in the map area and checkmark in the control panel area and labels in the map area and the control panel area . The user can then study rearrange and change the look of the collected symbols to aid the analytical thought process and gain insights regarding patterns and relationships of the represented content. Because the map contains smart graphics carrying data about the collected items the user can request for instance by clicking on a symbol or on a button to have related data displayed in the control panel area in place of the existing document. These data may be previously viewed content representations of the collected content an altered formatting of the content in the document or a layered and slotted map. The special control apparatus such as checkmarks and buttons in the control panel area and map area maximize the ease and flow of collecting and altering map symbols and then in altering the content or look of the control panel area and its document.

The collected image and text symbols may be organized in a set of slots in the map area as shown or in another slotted and layered layout. These smart graphic symbols carry data about the content they represent. They may be hot in that user actions towards them using devices such as a cursor keyboard or touch screen will trigger a change in the display. Pointing at a smart graphic symbol may call forth into the message box a name title or other descriptive material associated with the content represented. Clicking on a map symbol may bring forth additional information by one of several means. Clicking may cause a slotted and layered pop up to appear as described in conjunction with and with . It may also cause a smaller movable document to appear in front of the control panel area or cause a change of content and or look in the control panel area document. Pressing on different keys in the keyboard or some other user input apparatus may be used to switch between these different means of accessing annotational data in varying formats.

The smart graphics symbols can inform an intelligent agent to bring more data like those data previously collected in the map into the control panel area or otherwise transform the content and or look of the document in the control panel area based on what has been collected. The intelligent agent may also employ fuzzy logic to bring similar data into the control panel area if the data does not strictly match the previously collected data. The degree of matching may be set by the user by software or by other suitable means.

Due to the unique identifier ID and data attached to or associated with the symbols the user may explicitly request the display in the control panel area of a set of data represented by the symbols collected. For example to collect a set of representations to be isolated for study as shown in the document in the control panel area consists of a number of pages accessed by a document paging system . In this example each page contains several items each item may have its own image name and description . A Save in My Collection checkmark is included for each item thereby turning the document into a control panel or key. This checkmark is a smart graphic in that it has data attached relating to the item for instance its database ID and categories its name price and other descriptive data along with the path and name of its image and link to its product page. When the checkmark is created as the page is drawn or when the checkmark is clicked this data is inserted into a database for use by the system.

In the process of viewing each page of the document the user has checked Save in My Collection checkmark associated with content items in the document on three different pages. Each of these user actions has filled a slot in the map with a smart graphic symbol representing the content image name and description for each item. The symbol may be the item s name its image a smaller version of its image or another representation. The user can drag symbols between slots to rearrange them as part of the analytical thought process. To remove an item from the collection the user can uncheck a highlighted checkmark for example collected checkmark or Page Item checkmark or another button or label. Alternatively a symbol for a removal area such as a trash bin may be provided into which the user can drag the item to clear it from the collection. Instead of completely deleting a collected item unchecking it can cause the system to place a layer with a white or colored screen above the image or text in the slot. By greying out the symbol or diminishing its clarity in some other way the symbol remains in view in case the user changes their mind then they can click the put back in collection checkmark or re select checkmark again to fully reinstate the symbol in the collection. When all the collection slots are filled new items to be collected can be inserted into the greyed out slots. Limiting the number of slots available for collecting items can cause the user to hone their search by having to make choices in a process of elimination. Alternatively the impression of having extra spaces to save items can be provided by using clickable arrows or another method to bring additional items into the slots to give the sense of scrolling through a set of items longer than the number of slots. As another alternative additional slots may appear when the slots initially provided are filled or the map area may be enlarged to show additional slots.

Referring also to and a shopper may wish to view an enlargement of an item s image or additional text or images relating to the item. On a typical World Wide Web site a shopper expects to click the image its name or a similar button to go to a product page with more in depth descriptions and access to an ordering system. In this environment a product page would replace the document in the control panel area so that the map showing collected items is still in view for reference. From the product page an item may be collected in or removed from the map for instance via a checkmark inserted into the product page.

By a means such as clicking the Show My Collection in 1 Page button in the map area or control panel the user can request the control panel area to be filled with the image name and description of each of the collected items as depicted in . Thereby the user can further study the patterns and relationships of the collected items to gain insights and make choices while viewing all of the items together and without the distraction of other information. The control panel document can be a slotted and layered map enabling the user to drag symbols between slots to rearrange them and remove or grey out items as part of the analytical thought process.

Multiple map collections may be created by a user and interchanged smoothly. The navigation to the desired map may be accomplished via an optional slotted and layered map index as described in conjunction with or via another suitable indexing system such as a row or rows of file like tabs. A slotted and layered topic selector and key as described in and a pop up query box as described in may also be included. A slot for a title within the map area is used to display the mapset title and subcategory title.

In the two examples of a search for products and information depicted in the users are seeking a match or set of matches to something they have in mind. As with current document and World Wide Web searches they go from page to page scanning images lists or text looking for potential matches. However with the present embodiment users may collect visual representations of possibilities in the map area slots instead of having to try to remember them in their mind s eye and getting overwhelmed lost and confused. This ability to see representations of possible matches as they search improves the flow of their thought decision making or shopping process. The ability to reposition and alter the look of certain slots and of their content e.g. color greying bolding aids the process of categorization comparison and selection. An intelligent agent informed by what is being collected can bring more like those collected into subsequent pages to further enhance the flow quality and success of the quest. The present embodiment may also be used to collect items or links while searching across several digital collections or World Wide Web sites.

The display is divided into several parts as shown in a control panel area containing a control panel document A with its document navigation system A at top right and three map areas B C and D. The layout described in is further detailed in with the right hand side of the display having a control panel document A and a map area B in which data from the document is collected. As in the examples illustrated in in by engaging a hot text link or image inserted within the document that text or image or a representation of it appears in one of the map slots in map area B and carries data along with it. If adding graphics such as checkmarks beside links is not desirable pressing a text link and dragging it into the map area B may accomplish collecting the link in the map. Alternatively this may be accomplished by clicking the link while holding down a designated key on the keyboard by clicking a button to change modes or by some other user input means to override the default of going to the link page upon clicking the link. In this illustrative diagram the map in map area B is shown as a gridded chart with five over four slots. A document index related to the document navigation system A and a map index as described in are shown to the left of the map area B. At the top of the right side the document title appears along with the document navigation system for searching finding and paging through documents. Special control apparatus for manipulating the map appears to the upper right of the map area B for the gridded chart for instance a slot may be emptied of its contents by dragging it into the x or a trash can symbol the number of slots for collecting links may be extended through scrolling using the back and forth arrowheads a color palette may be provided so that the user can color code different sets of slots to organize them.

The left hand side of the display diagrammed in contains two additional maps C and D along with the mapset title . This illustration depicts in the upper left a map area C with horizontal slots in the form of a graph and in the lower left a map area D with a layered graphic. A simple symbol list key and a layered symbol list key as described in are shown. The simple symbol list key shows the most basic and commonly used data items and special control apparatus. The layered symbol list key shown here organizes access to a large information set and collects a layered list of the items that have been selected . The user chooses a topic from the topics list shown in by clicking on an arrowhead subtopics for that topic appear below in the layered list as shown in . This subtopics list has a retrieval bar as shown in that can be clicked to view additional subtopics. By clicking on a subtopic in the subtopics list shown in a layered symbol list key for that subtopic appears to its right. Clicking on the subtopic key s retrieval bar causes additional items to be accessed. Clicking on an item in the subtopic key causes a representation of its data to appear in the map area D. As well the symbols and label for the item appear in the layered selections list of the key. From this selections list items can be removed from the map area D and then easily re shown. Items that are removed or hidden from the map area D may be greyed in the selections list or otherwise altered graphically so as to signal that they are no longer visible in the map area. A larger number of selections can be shown by clicking on the key extender that will pop up a longer selections list on top of the document in the control panel A. As the user at this point is focusing on the map or maps in the left side of the display this pop up selections list does not interfere with viewing the document in the control panel. It can be hidden when the user focuses back on the document. As the user focuses on one section of the display it may be desirable to increase the size of that section temporarily. Devices may be provided that enable the map areas and their maps to be enlarged such as having the margin lines between areas draggable so that the user can press on one and move it as if pulling to extend one area into another. Search capabilities such as a keyword plotter may be provided to match text in the document with place names and topics including themes people and objects that are available to be plotted or inserted into slots in geographic map layers timelines grid formatted image catalogs or other charts.

These interactive capabilities diagrammed in are further illustrated in the scenario described in . In this scenario a student is researching a thesis about the relationship between the urban poor and wetlands in various cities. She is reading through documents to find data relevant to her research. She collects and reformats data in one or more of her maps then manipulates the representations to better analyze patterns and relationships between the collected data. The three maps into which she collects interrelated data are 1 a Link Collector in a gridded chart 2 a timeline in a graph with horizontal slots and 3 a geographic map atlas in a layered graphic.

As part of organizing her documents to be viewed in the control panel document she has created a list of Sources Original Books Journals Web Photos Maps as her document index. When she clicks on one of the items in the document index for Sources its document navigation system appears above. In this case she has clicked on Web and a Web browser bar has appeared. She uses this navigation system to search and locate World Wide Web based documents. For other source types an index linked to a set of archives of those source materials might appear in the document navigation system area.

The researcher is searching through documents and collecting data and links in a gridded chart called her Link Collection in a method similar to that described in C and D. As she searches through sources the researcher has identified different cities with relevant case studies therefore she has organized her Link Collections map index by city. She clicks the plus sign next to the title Cities to add and name a new Link Collection for that city and its name automatically is inserted alphabetically in the map index and the retrieval bar is adjusted accordingly showing the initials of the first and last items of the list in each layer of the index. To remove an item from the map index she presses and drags it to the X mark at the upper right of the map index. As she searches the researcher collects links in her Link Collection for a particular city. If she has the Manhattan collection in the map slots and sees a link about Brooklyn she can click on Brooklyn in her map index and the slots will be filled with her Brooklyn collection into which she can save the new Brooklyn link. Then she can go back to the Manhattan collection by clicking the word Manhattan in her map index.

The researcher is interested in the historic development of the area of lower Manhattan that originally was a pond and wetlands. At the point illustrated in the researcher is going through World Wide Web pages that have been specially formatted with smart graphics text or links and is viewing a document about the history of New York City s water supply. She has the ability to have the document searched for keywords that can be matched to a list of place names and topics including themes people and objects if she selects to do so these will be plotted on her geographic map timeline or other chart and their symbols brought to the top of her map key. She can also have the control panel document replaced by a catalog a grid or matrix map of images associated with the keywords from which she can view images and choose to collect them into her image collection which she accesses by toggling the tab from Link Collection to Image Collection.

The document is a control panel because it has been specially formatted with smart graphics text or links related to the set of slotted maps. When the researcher drags highlighted text up to a slot the look of the highlighted text in the document changes to show that it has been collected. Not only will the highlighted text in the document link to pages of additional information related to the word or phrase but the link is configured so the additional information or the access path to it can be picked up as the researcher drags the highlighted words up to the Link Collection map. Subsequently by clicking on a slot the additional information will appear in the control panel document. Additional information may be passed so that it can be used by the system in other ways. It may inform an intelligent agent to search for more web pages like those collected and to bring into the key or layers of the geographic map atlas features related to that which has been collected. The passed information may cause the system to change the content or look of one or more of the maps. For instance the data passed might include a date that can determine positioning in the timeline or an address or geographic coordinates to determine positioning in a geographic map. The configuration of the link may also include an abbreviated version of the word or phrase so that it will fit into the space provided in the Link Collection map slots. Alternatively the user may be given the ability to save the link with a label of her own choosing that will best remind her of that particular data set. In addition instead of collecting one item per slot the system shown allows the researcher to deposit numerous smart graphics links relating to a particular subject into the same slot. The researcher has collected the word cholera in the slot named disease. New terms and subjects such as Kalch Hook and Manhattan Company she drags into empty slots to create new categories the phrase Manhattan Company is automatically shortened to Manhattan Co. to fit the slot. Then she can click on one of these slots to ask to view in the control panel area a particular set of information associated with the collected links such as 1 all of that category s links 2 all of its data 3 a list of all of the original documents from which the links were collected or 4 all of the document sections such as paragraphs surrounding those links in the original documents. She may also choose via the Keyword Plotter to have her collection of place names and topics including themes people and objects plotted in the geographic map time line or other chart. She may choose to see the images associated with these places and topics in the catalog format in place of the document control panel she can then toggle between the text document and her image collection by means of the tabs at the top of the Link Collection.

As the researcher progresses in finding relevant data for her research project she can rearrange the words in her Link Collection slots as she organizes and thinks about the subject matter. In addition some of the patterns and relationships regarding the collected data can be better understood in relationship to time and space. Therefore the system enables the researcher to have selected data formatted for viewing in a timeline graph and a geographic map. She can drag a smart graphic with a date attached from the Link Collection into the timeline. If the smart graphic has an address or geographic coordinates attached it can be dragged into the geographic map and if it also has a date it can be located within the correct history map layers. The system enables the researcher to select a symbol and label for the data to be displayed in the timeline and in the geographic map. The timeline and geographic map have data for layers and slots in one or more databases that are accessed through symbol list keys. The timeline has a scrolling date retrieval bar at the bottom so that the researcher can position and view data for particular eras. To enlarge the timeline she can press on the right hand edge the bottom edge or the bottom right corner to drag and extend the size of the timeline into more of the display area.

The geographic map is connected to an atlas of map layers data and images. Keys are provided to access this data. This map has a simple symbol list key in the upper right corner through which basic features can be easily shown or hidden. At the bottom it has a layered symbol list key. The researcher has previously brought forth layers including those of population density persons per acre historic development and districts Civic Center and Chinatown and they show in the Selections list. The Selections list has special symbols to the right of the map feature symbols through which the researcher can alter how the feature is displayed. For example the districts default is a solid pattern but the X enables the street pattern to show the square enables the district outline to show and the L enables labels to show. The researcher can select any combination of formats for each feature. In the map of Manhattan shown in the illustration the researcher has selected to show the shoreline water bodies and streets from 1660 along with the present day major streets with labels and the streets of the Civic Center and Chinatown. From the timeline she has dragged down the 5 Points symbol into the map area for the geographic map so that it will be properly located by the software program based on the x y coordinates of its latitude and longitude in the database. She can then study the district s relationship to the original pond and its subsequent filling for development. She can click on the symbol for the 5 Points and a gridded map catalog of historic and present day images of the district will appear in the control panel area replacing the document. She can switch from her links to her images collection to collect images from the image catalog or from a document by clicking the Image Collection tab below the navigation bar. Via other tabs she can hide the image catalog and go back to her document in the control panel. As she has been reading the document she has learned about reservoirs associated with the pond and she is in the process of looking up reservoir in the map atlas key to see the location of the reservoir described in the text. She will then click Zoom In to have that portion of the map fill the map area so that she can study that area of the city more closely. She can also click 3 D Model to view her selected layers draped on top of a three dimensional view of the area in order to study the data related to topographic changes in elevation.

By the method and system described in this scenario the researcher smoothly gathers and analyzes data organizes her conclusions and then goes on to use the system of interactive charts graphs and maps to present and publish the thesis in an interactive format.

Although various embodiments have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that variations can be made therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the described embodiments.

