---

title: Sub-millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system
abstract: The present invention relates to sub-millimeter wave frequency heterodyne imaging systems. More specifically, the present invention relates to a sub-millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system for imaging the magnitude and phase of transmitted power through or reflected power off of mechanically scanned samples at sub-millimeter wave frequencies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07687773&OS=07687773&RS=07687773
owner: Coherent, Inc.
number: 07687773
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 956 734 filed Oct. 1 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 507 963 which claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60 507 980 filed Oct. 1 2003.

This invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

The present invention relates to a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne imaging system. More specifically the present invention relates to a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system for imaging the magnitude and phase of transmitted power through or reflected power off of mechanically scanned samples at sub millimeter wave frequencies.

A wealth of useful spectral information exists at sub millimeter wave frequencies 300 GHz 3000 GHz wavelengths from 1 millimeter mm to 100 microns . Astronomers have long pursued programs to develop this technology for Earth planetary and space science applications and recently the biological and biomedical areas have begun pursuing the same technology. However the same properties that make the sub millimeter wave frequencies so interesting high absorption and emission from many gaseous species liquids and solids especially water make it extremely difficult for significant penetration or propagation of terahertz energy thus severely limiting imaging radar and communications applications.

One current method of examining biological and other material samples is through the use of ultra fast pulse time domain spectroscopy TDS . This technique yields wide spectral coverage but has limited frequency resolution and signal to noise ratio. TDS also has limited penetration depth in lossy samples such as wet tissue where measured penetration depth is generally on the order of a few microns. For any transmission application the losses due to water absorption are untenably high measured at an absorption coefficient of 450 cmat 2.5 terahertz. Thus the applicability of TDS to biological materials is limited.

Additionally the Fourier Transform Spectroscopy FTS method has also been implemented for measuring biological materials. While FTS is more sensitive and has a much shorter sampling time than traditional spectroscopy techniques it is again limited in its dynamic range and spectral resolution. For applicability to biological materials it is similar to TDS possessing a penetration depth of only microns in wet tissue.

Therefore a need exists in the art for a sub millimeter wave frequency detector system with increased dynamic range and measurement capability. Specifically an imaging system that can measure weak signals through very lossy samples is desirable.

The present invention provides a system and a method that overcomes the aforementioned limitations and fills the aforementioned needs by providing a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system for imaging the magnitude and phase of transmitted power through or reflected power off of mechanically scanned samples at sub millimeter wave frequencies. The system comprises a signal source and a local oscillator source both operating at a sub millimeter wave frequency. Further in one embodiment a sub millimeter wave frequency mixer feeds an intermediate frequency to a spectrum analyzer which is then translated into an image for a user.

In one aspect of the invention a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system comprises a first sub millimeter wave frequency signal beam originating from a first signal source wherein the first signal beam passes through a sample and into a mixer and a second sub millimeter wave frequency signal beam originating from a second signal source and functioning as a local oscillator wherein the first signal beam and second signal beam pass into the mixer and downconvert into an intermediate frequency output.

In another aspect of the invention a computer controls the X and Y position of a sample surface stores the position data and combines the position data with image data from a spectrum analyzer and converts the data into a viewable image.

In a further aspect the sample is any form of matter desired for measurement of sub millimeter wave frequency penetration.

In another aspect of the invention the first signal beam passes from the first signal source through a first focusing lens before passing through the sample and wherein the signal beam passes from the sample through a second lens to enlarge the signal beam.

In another aspect of the invention the first signal diameter is focused from 3 millimeters to 1 millimeter before passing through the sample.

In another aspect of the invention a spectrum analyzer receives the intermediate frequency output from the mixer and acts as a power detector and phase detector to produce image data.

In another aspect of the invention a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system comprising a first terahertz frequency signal beam originating from a first signal source wherein the first signal beam passes through a sample and into a mixer a second terahertz frequency signal beam originating from a second signal source and functioning as a local oscillator wherein the first signal beam and second signal beam pass into the mixer and downconvert into an intermediate frequency output and a computer which control the X and Y position of a sample surface stores the position data and combines the position data with the image data into a viewable image.

In a further aspect a method of forming a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system the method comprising the acts of sending a first sub millimeter wave frequency signal beam originating from a first signal source wherein the first signal beam passes through a sample and into a mixer and sending a second sub millimeter wave frequency signal beam originating from a second signal source and functioning as a local oscillator wherein the first signal beam and second signal beam pass into the mixer and downconvert into an intermediate frequency output.

In another aspect of the invention the act of forming the sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system comprises the act of using a computer to control the X and Y position of a sample surface store the position data and combine the position data with image data from a spectrum analyzer to convert the data into a viewable image.

In another aspect of the invention the second signal source is an optically pumped far infrared laser.

In another aspect of the invention the sample is any form of matter desired for measurement of sub millimeter wave frequency penetration.

In a further aspect the act of passing a signal beam through a sample further comprises the acts of passing a first signal beam from the first signal source through a first focusing lens before passing through the sample and passing the signal beam from the sample through a second lens to enlarge the signal beam.

In another aspect of the invention the act of passing a signal beam through a sample further comprises the acts of focusing the first signal diameter from 3 millimeters to 1 millimeter before passing through the sample.

In a further aspect the method using a spectrum analyzer to create a viewable image comprises the additional acts of 

In another aspect of the invention a method of forming a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system the method comprising the acts of sending a first sub millimeter wave frequency signal beam originating from a first signal source wherein the first signal beam passes through a sample and into a mixer sending a second sub millimeter wave frequency signal beam originating from a second signal source and functioning as a local oscillator wherein the first signal beam and second signal beam pass into the mixer and downconvert into an intermediate frequency output and using a computer to control the X and Y position of a sample surface store the position data and combine the position data with image data from a spectrum analyzer to convert the data into a viewable image.

The present invention relates to sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector systems. More specifically the present invention relates to a system and method for imaging the transmission loss and phase of thin samples using a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector. The following description taken in conjunction with the referenced drawings is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and to incorporate it in the context of particular applications. Various modifications as well as a variety of uses in different applications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to a wide range of embodiments. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments presented but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein. Furthermore it should be noted that unless explicitly stated otherwise the figures included herein are illustrated diagrammatically and without any specific scale as they are provided as qualitative illustrations of the concept of the present invention.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without necessarily being limited to these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

The reader s attention is directed to all papers and documents which are filed concurrently with this specification and which are open to public inspection with this specification and the contents of all such papers and documents are incorporated herein by reference. All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

Furthermore any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. Section 112 Paragraph 6. In particular the use of step of or act of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 Paragraph 6.

The description outlined below sets forth a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system and imager. More specifically the description sets forth a system for imaging the magnitude and phase of transmitted power through or reflected power off of mechanically scanned samples at sub millimeter wave frequencies.

The sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system can successfully and accurately measure weak signals through samples that would otherwise be unpenetrable using traditional sub millimeter wave detector techniques.

Continuous wave CW heterodyne imaging offers extremely large dynamic range and high signal to noise ratio while maintaining fast data acquisition stable magnitude and phase measurements reasonable frequency flexibility and millimeter scale penetration in wet tissues and other biological materials. To achieve a desirable level of penetration a strong sub millimeter illumination signal and close frequency spaced oscillator source is needed.

The sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne imaging system has demonstrated in one embodiment penetration of more than 2 millimeters mm at 2.523 terahertz THz . At this penetration depth applications include establishing contrast mechanisms in biological and electronic applications two and three dimensional transmission reflection imaging pump probe resonance in liquids and solids radiation induced effects in biomaterials change of state measurements and radiometric imaging of subjects in vivo. Applications are possible over a range of sub millimeter wave frequencies and have been demonstrated in a range from 300 GHz 3000 GHz.

In one embodiment of the sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system two signal sources are used one signal source acting as the signal beam which scans the sample while a second signal source acts as a local oscillator LO source for a mixer. The mixer provides a workable intermediate frequency IF output. The IF output is then passed to a spectrum analyzer where the measured transmission or reflection of a target sample is displayed as an image.

In another embodiment of the sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system comprises two signal sources two mixers and an intermediate frequency tracking system. A signal from the first source is used for measuring a sample while a signal from the second source is used as a local oscillator LO for two mixers. A reference mixer receives inputs from both the signal source and the LO source. A signal mixer receives an input from the LO source and the first source after it has been effected by the sample. The mixers feed the mixed signals into an intermediate frequency IF tracking system. The IF tracking system uses an additional LO and a lock in amplifier to identify the desired signal after which the signal is processed into an image using the data provided by the lock in amplifier and the position data from the scanned sample. The position data is fed to the controlling computer from a separate motion controller connected to the computer via General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB interface. The motion controller directly drives the X and Y linear motorized stages where the sample may be placed.

In order to provide a working frame of reference first a glossary of some of the terms used in the description and claims is given as a central resource for the reader. The glossary is intended to provide the reader with a general understanding of various terms as they are used in this disclosure and is not intended to limit the scope of these terms. Rather the scope of the terms is intended to be construed with reference to this disclosure as a whole and with respect to the claims below.

Before describing the specific details of the present invention it is useful to provide a centralized location for various terms used herein and in the claims. A definition has been included for these various terms. However the definition provided should not be considered limiting to the extent that the terms are known in the art. These definitions are provided to assist in the understanding of the present invention.

Heterodyne To generate new frequencies by mixing two or more signals in a nonlinear device such as a vacuum tube transistor or diode mixer.

Etalon An optical filter that uses a pair of semi reflecting semi transmissive parallel surfaces to create resonance via multiple beam interference between the surfaces.

In one embodiment the sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system is based on a sub millimeter wave mixer and two signal sources. presents a block diagram representing the components of a simple heterodyne imaging system and the steps taken to create a viewable image. One signal source is the signal beam which scans the sample while the second signal source acts as a local oscillator LO source for the mixer . The mixer provides a workable intermediate frequency IF output. The IF signal is then passed to a spectrum analyzer where the measured transmission or reflection of a target sample is displayed as an image.

A more detailed illustration of one embodiment of the simple heterodyne detector system as illustrated by the diagram in . A sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system comprises two commercially available optically pumped carbon dioxide CO far infrared IR lasers manufactured by Coherent Inc. Santa Clara Calif. . Both lasers are operated on the 118.83 micrometer EM methanol CHOH line but at slightly different frequencies e.g. 2522 GHz and 2522.003 GHz as seen in . One laser is used for the signal beam to scan a sample while the second laser acts as a local oscillator LO source. The two lines then feed into a 2.523 terahertz THz planar gallium arsenic GaAs Schottky diode mixer via a beam splitter . The LO laser is fed straight into the mixer while the signal laser beam is focused down from its nominal 3 millimeter mm diameter to roughly 1 mm at the sample plane using a pair of Teflon polytetrafluoroethylene lenses available from Dupont Corp. Wilmington Del. . The sample is moved in a plane normal to the beam using a computer controlled X Y stage . The position data is fed to the controlling computer not shown from a separate motion controller connected to the computer via a General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB interface also not shown . The motion controller directly drives the X and Y linear positions of the motorized stages. The mixer provides an IF output to an Agilent E4408 spectrum analyzer Agilent Technologies Inc. Palo Alto Calif. which serves as the imaging device to produce a viewable image. With the embodiment described experiments resulted in a dynamic range of 60 decibels dB giving a penetration depth of 1 millimeter mm in tissue amplitude resolution 0.2 dB and an acquisition rate of 5 pixels per second limited by the particular spectrum analyzer in this embodiment .

In the aforementioned embodiment commercial carbon dioxide pumped far infrared lasers and high sensitivity room temperature THz planar Schottky diode mixers are used to create a THz heterodyne detector system. However one skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of other types of signal sources and mixers are available. Sensitivity enhancement is possible at the expense of high end dynamic range by replacing the Schottky mixer with a more sensitive hot electron bolometer or superconductor insulator superconductor element. Factors of 10 100 in low end signal acquisition are possible with these near quantum limited receiver elements. Additionally significant improvement in frequency agility could be achieved by replacing the two far IR lasers with semiconductor cascade lasers.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that operation of the detector system at other sub millimeter wave frequencies is possible by the judicious choice of laser lines and replacement of the Schottky diode mixer with downconverters optimized for the different frequencies. Additionally one skilled in the art will also appreciate that other lenses or focusing devices can be used to focus the signal beam before passing through the sample.

In another embodiment improved dynamic range and frequency stability can be obtained with a more complex arrangement whereby the intermediate frequency IF signal to be detected is essentially phase stabilized against itself.

The phase stabilized heterodyne detector system is based on two sub millimeter wave mixers and two signal sources. presents a block diagram representing the components of one embodiment of a phase stabilized system . In this embodiment one signal source is the signal beam which scans the sample while the second signal source acts as a local oscillator LO source for two mixers a reference mixer and signal mixer . The signal from the first signal source is divided into a measurement path and reference path and is mixed in each mixer with the same LO signal derived from the second signal LO signal source . This results in two IF signals that are equal in instantaneous frequency but differ in amplitude and phase. The mixers and each provide a mixed signal to an intermediate frequency IF tracking system which acts as the primary detector and produces a workable IF output. The system uses the reference mixer along with the IF tracking system and a lock in amplifier to monitor and normalize the signal sources and . The spectrum analyzer of the previously described embodiment is replaced with the lock in amplifier to maximize throughput. The IF tracking system passes the signal through the lock in amplifier to identify the desired signal where the measured transmission or reflection of a target sample is then displayed as an image .

In one embodiment as illustrated by the diagram in a sub millimeter wave frequency heterodyne detector system comprises two commercially available carbon dioxide CO optically pumped far IR lasers. One laser is used for the signal beam to scan a sample and supplies as much as 70 milliwatts mW at 2.523 Terahertz THz . The second laser acts as a LO source for two mixers and . The two lasers operate at slightly different frequencies e.g. 2522 GHz and 2522.001 GHz as seen in . In the present embodiment the system is based around the two high sensitivity room temperature 2.523 THz Schottky diode mixers a measurement mixer and reference mixer . The beam from the signal laser is split into measurement and reference paths via a beam splitter and is mixed in each mixer using the same LO signal derived from the second laser . The beam from the signal laser passes through the sample and then into the measurement mixer . A second input into the measurement mixer is a portion of the beam from the LO laser . A portion of the beams and from both lasers also passes into the reference mixer . The output of each mixer passes into an IF tracking system to produce a workable IF output of 24 GHz. The resulting IF output is then passed through a lock in amplifier to isolate the desired frequency after which a viewable image may be obtained.

In one embodiment in order to maximize throughput the spectrum analyzer depicted in is be replaced with a Stanford Research SR844 RF lock in amplifier LIA Stanford Research Systems Sunnyvale Calif. . In addition to having a maximum 2 millisecond latency between the issuance of a trigger command to it and the actual logging of data the LIA can also measure the relative phase difference between the reference and measurement IF signals thereby providing phase delay imagery of the samples. In order to improve the spatial resolution of the imaging system and reduce optics losses by roughly 20 dB the Teflon polytetrafluoroethylene lenses originally used to focus the signal beam before hitting the sample can be replaced with a pair of off axis parabolic mirrors . This change reduced the beam diameter to less than 0.55 mm.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that there are many different frequency stabilization schemes that may be employed to track and calibrate the two sub millimeter lasers. In this embodiment stability of roughly 0.1 decibels dB and less than 5 degrees have been achieved with a dynamic range of more than 110 dB. The present system scans the sample through the focused beam and measures transmission or reflection at a fixed radio frequency RF . Penetration in wet tissue is more than 2 mm at 2.523 THz.

Broader RF bandwidth is possible with tunable signal sources and wider IF band amplifiers. In order to achieve optimal signal to noise ratio S N the pre detection bandwidth should be made as narrow as possible. However in order to obtain an image of reasonable resolution many scanned pixels it is desirable to use the largest possible pre detection bandwidth so as to minimize the image acquisition time. The pre detection bandwidth should therefore be selected to optimize the particular requirements of a specific application. In addition to these conflicting requirements there is the added complication of the stability of the sub millimeter wave sources better than 1 part in 10is required i.e. within 3 kHz . The minimum frequency drift of the commercial carbon dioxide CO pumped far IR lasers over a 5 minute period is about 150 kHz. Bearing these limitations in mind a system for imaging the transmission loss and phase of thin less than 10 mm thick biosamples at 2.523 THz has been constructed and successfully tested in the laboratory. Dynamic range as great as 110 dB has been measured with a 3 dB pixel size of less than 0.4 mm. The noise in the phase measurements is less than 2 degrees.

Operation at frequencies other than 2.523 THz is possible by judicious choice of laser lines and replacement of the two Schottky diode mixers with mixers optimized for the different frequencies. Sensitivity enhancement is also possible at the expense of high end dynamic range by replacing the Schottky mixers with more sensitive hot electron bolometer or superconductor insulator superconductor elements. Factors of 1000 in low end signal acquisition are possible with these near quantum limited receiver elements. Finally significant improvement in frequency agility can be achieved by replacing the two far IR lasers with recently available semiconductor quantum cascade lasers.

In another embodiment the detuned methanol CHOH LO laser is operated with difluouromethane CHF lasing at 2546 GHz yielding an IF frequency of 24 GHz. The wider IF allows even better frequency stabilization and enhanced noise performance from the two mixers. In an additional embodiment two beam splitters and are replaced with frequency diplexing silicon etalons. The diplexing etalons isolate the measurement signal path from the LO laser by greatly reducing the amount of measurement signal reflected back from the reference mixer into the LO laser path. The etalons are designed for almost perfect transmission over 99 at the 2.523 THz RF frequency so nearly all of the signal reflected back from the reference mixer at that frequency will pass back through the etalon and back into the RF laser instead of being reflected into the LO laser path. What little RF signal does get to the LO laser and is back reflected toward the measurement mixer passes through the diplexing etalon at that mixer instead of being reflected into it. As a result a dynamic range in excess of 110 dB is possible with this system.

In the tracking circuit due to the large amount of available power at the lasers about 60 mW and the excellent performance of the THz mixers attenuation is added in front of the reference mixer and LO laser to provide effective isolation without significantly degrading the performance of the measurement mixer . Combining this method with replacement of one of the beam splitting polarizing grids with a Mylar biaxially oriented polyethylene terephthalate beam splitter to reduce stray coupling from specular reflection of the grid wires increased the dynamic range to about 75 dB Mylar is a registered trademark of Dupont Corp. Wilmington Del. . By carefully adjusting the position of the reference mixer to provide some phase cancellation of the stray measurement signal another 10 to 15 dB of measurement range can be obtained.

In one embodiment as illustrated in microwave 23.7 GHz IF signals from the reference and measurement THz mixers shown in are applied to microwave amplifiers and respectively. The amplified reference IF signal from the amplifier is applied to a first mixer which is pumped by a relatively low frequency 3.2 GHz signal from a first oscillator via the IF port of mixer . The 20.5 GHz output of mixer is taken at its LO port and is heavily bandpass filtered to remove the undesired sideband from the mixer and amplified by bandpass filters FL FL and amplifiers A and A . An attenuator controls the amount of gain in this path. The signal passes through a directional coupler for sampling by the microwave power meter and is applied to the 20.5 GHz phase locked loop PLL tracking filter .

The tracking filter serves as a very narrow bandpass filter 1 MHz bandwidth passing only the downconverted linewidth of the THz lasers to the LO port of a second mixer . The RF port of the second mixer is fed with the amplified measurement IF signal from microwave amplifiers and . The 3.2 GHz IF output of the second mixer is fed through an isolator and a low pass filter to the RF port of a third mixer . The third mixer is pumped by a second oscillator operating at a slightly different frequency than the first oscillator so as to produce an IF frequency that can be readily detected by the RF lock in amplifier in one embodiment 9.5 MHz so the frequency of the second oscillator is 3.2095 GHz . The 9.5 MHz IF output of the third mixer is fed through a low pass filter to the signal input of the RF lock in amplifier . The 9.5 MHz reference signal for the RF lock in amplifier is generated by mixing the first oscillator and second oscillator in a fourth mixer . A 3 dB splitter an isolator and high pass filter provide the high amount of isolation required to prevent stray 3.2 GHz or 9.5 MHz signals from reaching the LO port of the fourth mixer which would result in crosstalk reducing the dynamic range of the system. An amplifier boosts the level of the second oscillator to the LO drive power required by a fourth oscillator not shown .

The RF lock in amplifier measures the magnitude of the signal at its signal input and compares its phase with the phase of the reference signal. Measurement is triggered by a command sent from the control computer and is stored in memory in the lock in amplifier also in . The sample to be imaged is placed in an X Y translation stage and the computer commands the stage to move the sample through the THz imaging beam in a raster pattern. As the sample is passed through the beam the computer triggers the lock in amplifier to acquire data at linear intervals specified by the user. Blocks of data are periodically read from the LIA by the computer during translation stage queuing and are stored and displayed.

The imager acquires vector data from the LIA and combines this data with position data from X and Y positioners in the controlling computer and stored on the computer in text files in simple XYZ format X position Y position and Z vector magnitude phase data . In real time a computer program displays this data during acquisition by assigning colors to different power levels and phases and plotting the points as a two dimensional raster image. A typical image is represented in where the relative power is plotted against position of the beam with respect to the sample.

