---

title: Live hosting toolset
abstract: Tools available to a live host for interacting with player of a live broadcast game show. One tool set receives performance data associated with the featured player and the other players, displays to the live host the performance data associated with the featured player and the other players, and allows the live host to broadcast live audio to the featured player and the other players. Another tool set aggregates statistical information associated with the other players participating in the live broadcast game show into multiple categories and ranks the statistical information. Based on at least one category, one of the other players is selected to be the next featured player. The selection is broadcast to the other players.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08303413&OS=08303413&RS=08303413
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08303413
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
Gaming systems have evolved from those which provided an isolated gaming experience to networked systems providing a rich interactive experience which may be shared in real time between friends and other gamers. With Microsoft s Xbox video game system and Xbox Live online game service users can now easily communicate with each other while playing to share the gaming experience.

Users can track their own and their friends progress through different games is through the concept of game scores and achievements. Another innovation in current gaming systems is the ability to quickly and easily download games. For example Microsoft introduced a gaming disc known as Microsoft Arcade which is able to connect to a server through the Internet when the gaming console is connected to the Internet. From the server site the Arcade gaming disc is able to enumerate full version games which are available for download to the user s hard disc drive on the XBOX console.

Large scale or massively multiplayer games allow large numbers of players to interact. Currently console games are generally limited to multi user games hosted by one of the console users.

Many games seek to inject realistic commentary into the gameplay. This commentary typically includes pre recorded content stored with the game which is accessed and presented to the user at appropriate events in the game or when the state of the game reaches a certain point. After playing the game for some time this pre recorded content becomes stale and repetitive.

One aspect of the present technology is to provide a toolset that allows a live host to interact with the players of a live broadcast game show. In one embodiment of a game show the players comprise a featured player competing against multiple other participants. The toolset receives performance data associated with the featured player and the other participants. The toolset displays to the live host the performance data associated with the featured player and the performance data associated with the other participants. At any point during the game show the live host broadcasts live audio related to the game show to the featured player and the other participants.

One aspect of the present technology is to inform the live host that participants are losing interest in the live broadcast game show. A method monitors the total number of players participating in the live broadcast game show and displays the number of players to the live host. In one embodiment the method updates the number of players participating in the gamshow to the live host at predetermined intervals. In another embodiment the method updates the number of players participating in the gamshow to the live host in real time. The method determines whether the players are losing interest in the game show based on the number of players that have left the game show. The method includes displaying new content to the live host. The live host may provide this new content to the players at the next opportunity in the game show.

One aspect of the present technology is to allow the live host to select the next featured player in the live broadcast game show. The live broadcast game show in one embodiment includes several rounds of trivia questions. For each round statistical information associated with the players participating in the game show is collected and ranked. A portion of this ranked statistical information is displayed to the live host. At the end of a round the live host may choose the next featured player for the next round. The live host may choose the next featured player based on any of the statistical information displayed to the live host.

The technology described herein is a toolset made available to a live host managing the gameplay of a live broadcast game show. The toolset organizes game statistics of each player participating in the game and presents these statistics to the live host. The toolset allows the live host to provide live commentary to the players and dynamically alter the gameplay. The live host may control certain aspects of the gameplay by among other things interrupting pre recorded audio to broadcast live audio commentary changing the subject matter of the next trivia question presented to the players in a trivia game embodiment and selecting the next featured player.

As depicted in console also includes an optical port for communicating wirelessly with one or more devices and two USB Universal Serial Bus ports and to support a wired connection for additional controllers or other peripherals. In some implementations the number and arrangement of additional ports may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of game console . Power button is selected to apply power to the game console and can also provide access to other features and controls and eject button alternately opens and closes the tray of a portable media drive to enable insertion and extraction of a storage disc .

Console connects to a television or other display such as monitor via A V interfacing cables . In one implementation console is equipped with a dedicated A V port not shown configured for content secured digital communication using A V cables e.g. A V cables suitable for coupling to a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port on a high definition monitor or other display device . A power cable provides power to the game console. Console may be further configured with broadband capabilities as represented by a cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet. The broadband capabilities can also be provided wirelessly through a broadband network such as a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network.

Each controller is coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers are USB compatible and are coupled to console via a wireless or USB port . Console may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. In an example illustrated in each controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad buttons and two triggers . These controllers are merely representative and other known gaming controllers may be substituted for or added to those shown in . In one embodiment headphones are also coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. The headphones allow the user to talk with other users playing the same game or for example talk with the live host .

In one implementation a memory unit MU may also be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage. Portable MUs enable users to store game parameters for use when playing on other consoles. In this implementation each controller is configured to accommodate two MUs although more or less than two MUs may also be employed.

Gaming and media system is generally configured for playing games stored on a memory medium as well as for downloading and playing games and reproducing pre recorded music and videos from both electronic and hard media sources. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive from an optical disk media e.g. from an online source or from MU . Samples of the types of media that gaming and media system is capable of playing include 

During operation console is configured to receive input from controllers and display information on display . For example console can display a user interface on display to allow a user to select a game using controller and display achievement information as discussed below.

CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses not shown . The details of the bus that is used in this implementation are not particularly relevant to understanding the subject matter of interest being discussed herein. However it will be understood that such a bus might include one or more of serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus.

In one implementation CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to memory controller via a PCI bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM DDR SDRAM modules that are independently controlled by memory controller via separate buses not shown . Hard disk drive and portable media drive are shown connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an AT Attachment ATA bus . However in other implementations dedicated data bus structures of different types can also be applied in the alternative.

A three dimensional graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution e.g. High Definition graphics processing. Data are carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline for multi channel audio processing of various digital audio formats. Audio data are carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. In the illustrated implementation video and audio processing components are mounted on module .

In the implementation depicted in console includes a controller support subassembly for supporting four controllers . The controller support subassembly includes any hardware and software components needed to support wired and wireless operation with an external control device such as for example a media and game controller. A front panel I O subassembly supports the multiple functionalities of power button the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of console . Subassemblies and are in communication with module via one or more cable assemblies . In other implementations console can include additional controller subassemblies. The illustrated implementation also shows an optical I O interface that is configured to send and receive signals that can be communicated to module .

MUs and are illustrated as being connectable to MU ports A and B respectively. Additional MUs e.g. MUs are illustrated as being connectable to controllers and i.e. two MUs for each controller. Controllers and can also be configured to receive MUs not shown . Each MU offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. In some implementations the other data can include any of a digital game component an executable gaming application an instruction set for expanding a gaming application and a media file. When inserted into console or a controller MU can be accessed by memory controller . A system power supply module provides power to the components of gaming system . A fan cools the circuitry within console .

An application comprising machine instructions is stored on hard disk drive . When console is powered on various portions of application are loaded into RAM and or caches and for execution on CPU wherein application is one such example. Various applications can be stored on hard disk drive for execution on CPU .

Gaming and media system may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to monitor a television a video projector or other display device. In this standalone mode gaming and media system enables one or more players to play games or enjoy digital media e.g. by watching movies or listening to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface gaming and media system may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community as discussed below in connection with .

The console service and the gaming service may be combined and offered by a single service provider and or on a single server. Alternatively the service providers may be different entities. In yet another embodiment the gaming service server may be provided as a product in the form of hardware and software included on a non volatile storage medium.

Consoles A X may invoke user login service which is used to authenticate a user on consoles A X. During login login service obtains a gamer tag a unique identifier associated with the user and a password from the user as well as a console identifier that uniquely identifies the console that the user is using and a network path to the console. The gamer tag and password are authenticated by comparing them to user records in a database which may be located on the same server as user login service or may be distributed on a different server or a collection of different servers. Once authenticated user login service stores the console identifier and the network path in user records so that messages and information may be sent to the console.

User records can include additional information about the user such as game records and friends list. Game records include information for a user identified by a gamer tag and can include statistics for a particular game achievements acquired for a particular game and or other game specific information as desired.

Friends list includes an indication of friends of a user that are also connected to or otherwise have user account records with console service . The term friend as used herein can broadly refer to a relationship between a user and another gamer where the user has requested that the other gamer consent to be added to the user s friends list and the other gamer has accepted. This may be referred to as a two way acceptance. A two way friend acceptance may also be created where another gamer requests the user be added to the other gamer s friends list and the user accepts. At this point the other gamer may also be added to the user s friends list. While friends will typically result from a two way acceptance it is conceivable that another gamer be added to a user s friends list and be considered a friend where the user has designated another gamer as a friend regardless of whether the other gamer accepts. It is also conceivable that another gamer will be added to a user s friends list and be considered a friend where the other user has requested to be added to the user s friends list or where the user has requested to be added to the other gamer s friends list regardless of whether the user or other gamer accepts in either case.

Friends list can be used to create a sense of community of users of console service . Users can select other users to be added to their friends list and view information about their friends such as game performance current online status friends list etc.

User records also include additional information about the user including games that have been downloaded by the user and licensing packages that have been issued for those downloaded games including the permissions associated with each licensing package. Portions of user records can be stored on an individual console in database or on both. If an individual console retains game records and or friends list this information can be provided to console service through network . Additionally the console has the ability to display information associated with game records and or friends list without having a connection to console service .

Server s also include a message service which permits one console such as console A to send a message to another console such as console B. The message service is known the ability to compose and send messages from a console of a user is known and the ability to receive and open messages at a console of a recipient is known. Mail messages can include emails text messages voice messages attachments and specialized in text messages known as invites in which a user playing the game on one console invites a user on another console to play in the same game while using network to pass gaming data between the two consoles so that the two users are playing from the same session of the game. Friends list can also be used in conjunction with message service .

In accordance with the technology a gaming service provider may host a gaming service server to allow a multitude of users on consoles A X participate in a group game environment. The group may be as small as two users and may include hundreds of thousands of users. The gaming service server obtains game data and state information from the console service which it uses to provide information to a live host and period relevant commentator which in turn provides information back to a local game client X. It will be understood that the gaming service provider and the console service may be integrated into a single service. Alternatively the gaming service may not be managed by the same administrator of the console service .

The gaming service provider employs live individuals comprising a live host and a period relevant commentator . In one embodiment the live host and the period relevant commentator may be the same individual. Gaming service provider operates one or more gaming service servers. The gaming service server includes a set of live host tools which aggregate information from the console service with respect to game status for those users participating in a group game. Generally the gaming service provider in conjunction with the game application and the commentary controller provides true live commentary to a user running the game application on consoles A X. The commentary controller may be incorporated into the operating system of the console or may be a separate application running on the console having an application programming interface API which is accessible by game applications designed to work with a gaming service and the commentary controller . Generally the commentary controller chooses amongst available commentary types including live commentary specific to each shared game to provide a live commentary experience for those users who are members of a group game hosted by the gaming service provider .

Console X illustrates functional components which may be present on each of the consoles A X. Each console may be of a type such as that illustrated in in which embodiment the functional components may comprise one or more sets of instructions or applications instructing the processor to perform the functions described herein.

In general three types of commentary are available to a game application game specific pre recorded commentary period relevant recorded commentary and live commentary . Game specific pre recorded commentary is pre recorded commentary which accompanies a game application which is generated by game events which occur in an executing game application and which the application plays to a user to simulate commentary on the game. It generally comprises a bank of audio that uses random seeds and weightings to select an audio clip from a database and play it in the experience to appear somewhat live. Generally this commentary is scripted purely to the experience and does not contain references to real life events unless the game is somewhat period set so that it can be contextually relevant. Examples of this kind of commentary today exist in sports games with the commentator announcing the plays and players names game variables my weight the exact phrase chosen to allow for the excitement when a player is nearing scoring or a win loss situation. For example when the game application is a golf game and the user makes a particularly close shot game specific pre recorded commentary may indicate good shot from a professional announcer who simulates a broadcast announcer to the user. Normally there are a limited number of game specific pre recorded commentaries which can be returned to the user and after a certain number of repetitions of the game the user exhausts all of the game specific pre recorded commentary.

In accordance with the present technology two additional types of commentary are provided. Period relevant recorded commentary is commentary which is recorded by the game service provider based on information which is temporally relevant to the game. Period relevant commentary brings in temporally relevant events which may have occurred in the news relative to the game. Examples of this type of commentary include in the case of the sports game example reference to player s current stats in the real world something going on in the players life off the field or general news worthy items that may be relevant to the sport or game activity. For example the commentary may reference a player s girlfriend or that they had just broken up and it may be impacting their play on the field. In the above golf game example if one of the golfers participating in the game as simulating for example a professional golfer and the professional golfer recently won a tournament period relevant commentary may insert a comment relating to this recent tournament win at an appropriate point in the game application. This type of commentary includes temporally relevant real world events having a relation to the game experience. In accordance with the technology a period relevant commentator records period relevant commentary at regular intervals and the period relevant commentary may be downloaded to the local game client by the adaptive commentary controller at appropriate intervals. Period relevant commentary may also reference or include by way of example only a previously recorded interview conducted by the live host with the featured player.

The third type of commentary available to the game application is a live commentary stream . A live commentary stream is generated by a live host employed by the gaming service provider . Using live host tools a live host can monitor the status of a group game and provide live commentary which is converted to a stream of audio information by encoder and streamed directly to a local game client . The live commentary stream is truly live commentary which allows a live human being to add comments into the game play experience that may call out a particular players performance by gamer tag or add color commentary to team play such as saying that the East coast is outperforming the West coast on a particular question in a trivia game. In one embodiment the encoder outputs the stream in Windows Media Audio format.

Commentary provided by the live host can take many forms. In one example the live host can monitor the status of a golf game between for example a user on console A and a user on console X. If one of the users makes a particularly good shot in a golf game and that user is trailing in a golf match the live commentator can note this fact and comment on the fact that the good shot will increase the trailing user s chances of catching up in the match. In this example two users are described as playing a golf game.

An alternative embodiment exists where a larger number of consoles and users are participating in a hosted game event. In this case because the number of users is exceeding large the live host tools will aggregate game status information provided by the console service into more generalized categories for the live host . In this example the live host can initiate commentary which is relevant to certain groups of users or trends which may be occurring within the game. In one example a quiz show game may pit one user against a multitude of users asking both the multitude and the individual user a question with the results of game play determined on the success of the individual user versus the multitude of users. The live host tools can aggregate for example age groups of people in the group game who were successful or unsuccessful in answering a question how successful people in a particular geographic region were in answering the question or other factors which may be of interest to those people playing the game. Commentary can then be generated which notes particular game trends by region or age group or other items of interest to a level reflecting achievements of individual users in the current game or other games.

Live commentary by the live host will be recorded and encoded by encoder and output as a stream which is available to the local game clients A X. As discussed below when game events indicate that commentary is desirable for the executing game application the adaptive commentary controller will choose between live commentary period relevant commentary or game specific pre recorded commentary based on a number of factors.

The technology herein will be described below in reference to a live broadcast quiz game show. A live broadcast quiz game show is an online trivia game where one player referred to as the featured player competes against other players also referred to as participants from around the world answering questions presented to the featured player and other participants. The quiz game show is broadcast for example from a game studio e.g. gaming service provider over the Internet during specific broadcast times e.g. every weekday between 11 30 am 12 00 pm . During the scheduled broadcast times the trivia game is hosted live. Working from a centralized location with minimal studio production needs the live host may use the host tools to manipulate the direction of the game and inject relevant commentary to create a more emotionally charged real time show experience. The technology described herein is not limited to a trivia game.

At step the live host tools aggregate game events and game status by for example category statistic or common interest for participants in the group. For example geographic information regarding the game play of users in a particular geographic region users for a particular age group or other common factors may be aggregated into statistical output and provided to the live host . described in more detail later provides examples of game events and game status information.

At step a determination is made as to whether any of the factors or aggregate data should generate commentary from the live host . If the live host determines that a comment is suitable then at step the live host will provide a comment into the live data stream. At step the stream is encoded into for example WMA format or other suitable formats and output into a stream via the network at step . The stream can be directed to a particular port on the console and the adaptive commentary controller can seek the stream at any of the aforementioned steps when a live comment is necessary from the stream.

In certain situations the content provided into the live commentary stream may be provided from alternative sources. For example the console service provider may seek to interject service notifications into the stream or an advertiser may seek to input advertisements into the live commentary stream. The live host may broadcast live audio to only the featured player or simultaneously to all players. The live host may decide to broadcast live audio for several reasons. The live host may comment on actions taken by the featured player such as but not limited to how fast the featured player answered a trivia question the featured player has decided to cash out or the featured player reaches a milestone e.g. answered 5 questions correctly in a row . The live host may also comment on how many players are currently playing the game acknowledge one of the players with the current high score or acknowledge a certain player climbing up the scoring ranking. The live host may also decide to provide commentary related to the current trivia question such as but not limited to provide tips to the answer or provide facts about subject matter of the question.

In a television game show most of the comments provided by the game show host are focused on the contestant. In order for the live host to provide comments about a featured player playing an online game the live host requires access to as much information about the featured as possible. As shown in a higher detail of data associated with the featured player data is displayed to the live host than data associated with the other players .

At step the live host tools monitor the number of other participants playing the live broadcast game show. In one embodiment the number of other participants playing the game show is monitored in real time. In another embodiment a periodic snapshot of the number of players playing the game show is taken at pre determined intervals e.g. every 10 seconds every 30 seconds every minute etc. .

At step the number of players playing the live broadcast game show is displayed to the live host . If the monitoring at step is in real time the number of other participants playing the game show is displayed to the live host in real time. If the monitoring conducted at step is a snapshot at pre determined intervals the number of other participants playing the game show is updated and displayed to the live host after each snapshot is taken.

At step it is determined whether the players are losing interest in the round of trivia. In one embodiment the live host makes the decision whether the number of players leaving the game show indicates that players are losing interest in the game show. If there are for example 50 000 players participating in the game show 100 players leaving the game show at any given time would likely not indicate to the live host that players are losing interest in the game show. On the other hand if the live host notices that 5 000 players have left the game show by watching the number of players displayed in step the live host may interpret this large drop in participation as an indication that players are losing interest in the game show. In an alternative embodiment a predetermined percentage of players dropping out of the game show will indicate that players are losing interest in the game show. By way of example only the live host tools can be set so that a certain percentage drop in players indicates that players are losing interest in the game show and an automatic alarm or notification is sent to the live host .

If it is determined that players are not losing interest in the game show step the pre selected trivia questions continue to be presented to the players at step . In other words the game show continues as scheduled. If however it is determined that the players are losing interest in the game show step new trivia questions are presented to the live host in step . One or more new trivia questions may be presented to the live host at this time. The new trivia questions are intended to renew the player s interest in the game show and prevent further players from leaving the game show early. The new trivia questions may be associated with a subject matter that is different from the subject matter of the pre selected trivia questions e.g. switch from sports to entertainment may be easier to answer or other changes to the questions may be made.

At step the live host selects one of the new trivia questions. At step the new trivia question selected by the live host is presented to the players. At this point the trivia questions that were preselected for the round are discontinued. The trivia questions presented to the players for the rest of the round will be selected from the list of new trivia questions step . In one embodiment the live host may choose each trivia question for the rest of the round. In an alternative embodiment the live host selects a group of trivia questions presented e.g. entertainment group current news group and trivia questions from the selected group are presented to the players automatically.

At step the statistical information is ranked. By way of example only each of the statistical or performance data is displayed in the ranked order. For example in display the users with the highest score are displayed in ranked order. At step the live host selects a player ranked highest in one of the statistical categories. If the live host s selection is based on score for example the participant with the highest total score is selected User in . If the selection is based on number of correct answers the participant with the most correct answers is selected User in .

At step the live host announces that the selected other participant is the next featured player for the next round or any future round of trivia questions. The live host may choose to contact only the selected other participant to inform the player that they have been selected. The live host after the participant accepts to be the featured player could then broadcast the selection to all the players while waiting for the next round of trivia to begin. The live host may also decide to broadcast the identity of the selected participant to all players similar to a radio show announcing that a listener has won a prize and should call the studio to claim the prize.

As discussed above the live host may decide if a certain game event requires a comment step . At step the game play data has been received and aggregated. At step a determination is made as to whether a player has broken the all time scoring record. If it is determined that a player did break the scoring record then at step the player s name e.g. gamertag and score are displayed to the live host via the user interface. For example a display box may appear in the user interface indicating the player s gamertag score and a message Broadcast high score to all players. If the scoring record has not been broken it is determined whether a player has answered all the questions presented in the round correctly at step . If a player has answered all the questions correctly it is determined at step whether the end of the game is near. If the end of the game is near e.g. only 2 3 questions left in the round of trivia the player s name and the number of correct answers are displayed to the live host at step . If the round of trivia is not about to end the live host tools continue to receive game play data . If no player has answered all the questions correctly it is determined whether a new player has taken the scoring lead at step . If a new player took the scoring lead the gamertag of the new scoring leader the gamertag of the prior scoring leader and the most recent scores associated with each gamertag are displayed to the live host at step . If the scoring leader has not recently changed facts relevant to the current questions are displayed to the live host at step . The data or is displayed to the live host for providing comments relevant to the displayed data into the live data stream . More then one type of data and may be displayed simultaneously to the live host . The live host may choose to comment on any or all of the data displayed.

The foregoing detailed description of the technology described herein has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventive system to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The described embodiments were chosen in order to best explain the principles of the inventive system and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the inventive system in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the inventive system be defined by the claims appended hereto.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

