---

title: Chemical sensors for detecting hydrogen and methods of use
abstract: The presently-disclosed subject matter provides sensors and methods for detecting hydrogen by determining the conductivity of a chemiresistant film upon exposure to hydrogen, including for example chemiresistant films comprised of alkylamine-, alkylthiolate-, and/or surfactant-coated metal alloy nanoparticles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08168438&OS=08168438&RS=08168438
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08168438
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080726
---
The presently disclosed subject matter claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 952 125 filed Jul. 26 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Subject matter described herein was made with U.S. Government support under Grant Number CHE0518561 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the described subject matter.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to sensors and methods for detecting hydrogen. In particular the presently disclosed subject matter relates to sensors and methods for detecting hydrogen wherein the conductivity of a chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to hydrogen.

Hydrogen H is a useful energy source that has the potential to reduce the need for fossil fuels in the future and may someday replace or serve as an important alternative to the current fossil based transportation fuels. A great deal of effort has been put forth to develop hydrogen fueled motor vehicles in order to fulfill increasing energy demands for transportation. Also hydrogen is present as a common reagent in industry and is used as an Oscavenger in metallurgy in hydrocracking for refined fuels and in degradation of synthetic materials 1 . However utilizing Hcan be dangerous as Hhas one of the lowest flash points 253 C. of any energy source making it highly explosive in air above 4 by volume 2 . Accordingly one of the aims in fuel cell research is to safely store and release Hin a controlled manner 3 4 5 . For these reasons it is important to develop simple reliable low cost sensors for the detection of Hover a range of concentrations.

Early chemiresistive Hsensors were based on conductive palladium Pd films whose resistance increased in the presence of hydrogen due to the formation of the more resistive PdHx 6 7 . More recent reports on this type of sensing mechanism demonstrated improved response times higher sensitivity and lower detection limits by using nanostructured materials e.g. Pd nanotubes 8 . Another type of sensing mechanism involved the use of Pd nanowires 9 10 or films of nanoparticles 11 12 that contain disconnected high resistance metal metal junctions. These materials exhibit a decrease in resistance in the presence of Hdue to the formation of PdHx which expands in volume and forms a more connected lower resistance structure. This behavior was demonstrated with Pd mesowires electrochemically synthesized by step edge decoration of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite HOPG 9 10 13 and lithographically fabricated Pd wires 14 15 . Similar behavior has been described for discontinuous films of Pd which contain Pd nanoparticles evaporated or sputtered so that they are below the percolation threshold for conductivity 11 12 16 17 . The importance of the functionality of the substrate that the Pd is deposited on has also been demonstrated 12 . In general these types of sensors exhibit very fast reversible and sensitive responses with detection limits as low as 0.05 ppm and response times on the order of ms 9 12 .

The reactivity of alkanethiolate coated Pd monolayer protected clusters MPCs to hydrogen for chemiresistive sensing applications is also appreciated 18 . The use of films of chemically synthesized Pd nanoparticles for Hsensing had several benefits over evaporated or sputtered Pd films in terms of simplicity cost reproducibility and control over the electronic properties and sensing behavior. Yet while the electronic properties of those alkanethiolate coated Pd MPCs could be tailored by the surrounding monolayer the presence of the strongly chemisorbed thiolate group prevented the reaction between Pd and H. Thus ozone or heat treatment was required to desorb thiolates from the surface and promote Hreactivity which is inconvenient and more complicated.

Accordingly there remains a need in the art for sensors and methods for detecting hydrogen. In particular there is an unmet need for sensors and methods for detecting hydrogen whereby nanoparticles are deposited as a film on a sensor and directly utilized for Hsensing without first treating the nanoparticles with ozone or heat.

This Summary lists several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor for detecting hydrogen is provided. The sensor comprises in some embodiments an electrically insulating support at least two electrodes positioned at a distance from one another and affixed to the support and a chemiresistant film deposited at least between the electrodes and comprising alkylamine coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein conductivity of the chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to hydrogen.

In some embodiments the sensor comprises an alkylamine that is a compound of Formula I CH CRR NRR where n is an integer from 3 to 15 and R R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl. In some embodiments the alkylamine is selected from the group consisting of CHNH CHNH and CHNH 

The presently disclosed subject matter further provides in some embodiments a sensor for detecting hydrogen wherein the chemiresistant film further comprises alkylthiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles. In some embodiments the alkylthiolate is a compound of Formula II CH CRR S where n is an integer from 3 to 15 and Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl. In some embodiments the alkythiolate is CHS .

In some embodiments a sensor is provided where the chemiresistant film comprises surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein the surfactant is a compound of Formula III CH CRR NR where n is an integer from 3 to 15 Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl or substituted alkyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of Cl I NO SO ClO and PF. In some embodiments the surfactant is tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr .

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film is drop cast deposited at least between the at least two electrodes. In some embodiments the chemiresistant film is micro contact printed at least between the at least two electrodes.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor is provided wherein the support and the electrodes are inert to hydrogen. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 100 nanometers to about 1 millimeter. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 23 micrometers. Further in some embodiments the conductivity is reversible.

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the metal alloy is selected from the group consisting of a palladium alloy a palladium gold alloy and a palladium silver alloy.

The presently disclosed subject matter further provides in some embodiments a method for detecting hydrogen in a sample. In some embodiments the method comprises providing a sensor according to the presently disclosed subject matter applying a voltage potential between at least two electrodes exposing the sensor to a gas sample and detecting a change in the current between the at least two electrodes to thereby detect hydrogen in the sample. In some embodiments of the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter the hydrogen is present in the gas sample at a concentration of at least about 0.08 . In some embodiments the hydrogen is present in the gas sample at a concentration of about 9.6 to about 0.08 .

Accordingly it is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide sensors and methods for detecting hydrogen. This object is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects and advantages will become evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the following description of the presently disclosed subject matter Figures and non limiting Examples.

The details of one or more embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are set forth in the accompanying description below. Other features objects and advantages of the presently disclosed subject matter will be apparent from the specification Figures and Claims. All publications patent applications patents and other references noted herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the presently disclosed subject matter belongs. Although any methods devices and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the presently disclosed subject matter representative methods and materials are now described.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to a sensor includes a plurality of such sensors and so forth.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in this specification and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the presently disclosed subject matter.

As used herein the term about when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume concentration or percentage is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 in some embodiments 0.5 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed methods.

The presently disclosed subject matter includes sensors and methods of using same for detecting hydrogen. Hydrogen H is thought to be a feasible source of energy that can replace or serve as an important alternative to the current fossil based transportation fuels. Also His present as a common reagent in industry and is used as an oxygen O scavenger in metallurgy in hydrocracking for refined fuels and in degradation of synthetic materials. However Hhas one of the lowest flash points of any source 253 C. making it highly explosive above 4 by volume. As such applications for Hrequire sensors that can detect flow and leakage at early stages.

Thus in some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor for detecting Hover a range of concentrations is provided that can be used in a variety of applications including but not limited to Hfuel sources for transportation. The terms detect detecting and grammatical variations thereof are used herein to refer to determining the presence or absence and measuring the amount of H. As such detecting Hcan refer to a determination of whether hydrogen is present or absent in a sample of interest as well as quantifying the amount of hydrogen that is present in a sample of interest. For example to quantify the amount of hydrogen present in a sample a calibration curve is obtained by measuring the response of a sensor or the analytical signal to known hydrogen concentrations i.e. standards. The analytical signal used for the detection of His the percent response as described by the following equation Response 100 where iis the initial sensor baseline current in the presence of 100 Nand iis the sensor current in the presence of a H Nmixture of a certain standard percent H. A negative value is equal to a decrease in the current upon exposure to Hand vice versa. The calibration curve is a plot of Hconcentration x axis versus response y axis . From this curve the concentration of Hin unknown samples can thus be determined.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the sensor for detecting hydrogen comprises an electrically insulating support at least two electrodes positioned at a distance from one another and affixed to the support and a chemiresistant film deposited at least between the electrodes and comprising alkylamine coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein the conductivity of the chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to hydrogen.

As used herein the phrase electrically insulating support refers to a substrate that resists the flow of electrical current and can be used to support or separate electrical conductors while providing low background conductivity or without allowing current to travel via the support itself. For example an electrically insulating support can include but is not limited to substrates comprised of glass porcelain composite materials polymers such as plastics silicates such as mica silicon nitride ceramics and silicon oxide. In some embodiments the support and the electrodes are inert to hydrogen gas.

The electrodes of the presently disclosed sensors can be comprised of any electrically conductive material through which an electric current may enter and leave. Such electrodes are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and include but are not limited to silver and gold electrodes that can be affixed to a support. The term affixed is used herein to refer to the attachment of electrodes to a support. For example silver electrodes may be affixed to glass by painting the silver electrodes onto a glass support with a clean pipette or sharp metal tip such as a glass chromatography syringe. As another example gold electrodes may be fabricated by photolithography and affixed to a silicon support by sputtering and depositing gold over a suitable adhesion layer such as a chromium adhesion layer.

An exemplary sensor of the presently disclosed subject matter typically comprises at least two electrodes. The phrase at least two electrodes is used herein to refer to two or more electrodes that are positioned at a distance from one another such that the current running between the two electrodes can be measured. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 100 nanometers to about 1 millimeter. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 23 micrometers.

A criterion regarding the distance between the at least two electrodes is that the films conduct electricity across the gap between the at least two electrodes. As such the upper limit of the distance between the at least two electrodes can be set by the appearance of possible discontinuities or breaks in the film that would prevent conductivity. For example distances of approximately 100 nm can be used for micro contact printed chemiresistant films as the micro contact printed chemiresistant films are generally continuous and conductive over this distance but can have discontinuities over longer distances that prevent conductivity. As another example drop cast chemiresistant films are generally continuous over distances from about 100 nm to about 1 mm or more so conductivity is possible over longer distances.

The phrase chemiresistant film as used herein refers to films of materials whose conductivity changes in the presence of a vapor or gas analyte. Typically when a vapor or gas analyte partitions into such a film the vapors or gas analytes diffuse and absorb onto the materials which comprise the film and the resulting change in conductivity is proportional to the amount of vapor absorbed into the film. As such in some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film deposited at least between the electrodes is comprised of alkylamine coated metal alloy nanoparticles. The term alkylamine is used herein to refer to an alkyl group that is bonded to an amino group. The term amino refers to an NRRgroup where Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to Cinclusive linear i.e. straight chain branched or cyclic saturated or at least partially and in some cases fully unsaturated i.e. alkenyl and alkynyl hydrocarbon chains including for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl octyl ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl octenyl butadienyl propynyl methylpropynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl heptynyl and allenyl groups. Branched refers to an alkyl group in which a lower alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl is attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group having 4 to about 8 carbon atoms i.e. a Calkyl e.g. 4 5 6 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Higher alkyl refers to an alkyl group having about 10 to about 16 carbon atoms e.g. 10 11 12 13 14 15 or 16 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cstraight chain alkyls. In other embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cbranched chain alkyls.

Alkyl groups can optionally be substituted a substituted alkyl with one or more alkyl group substituents which can be the same or different. The term alkyl group substituent includes but is not limited to alkyl substituted alkyl halo arylamino acyl hydroxyl aryloxyl alkoxyl alkylthio arylthio aralkyloxyl aralkylthio carboxyl alkoxycarbonyl oxo and cycloalkyl. There can be optionally inserted along the alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen or alkyl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted alkyl includes alkyl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the alkyl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

Further as used herein the terms alkyl and or substituted alkyl include an allyl or an allylic group. The terms allylic group or allyl refer to the group CHHC CHand derivatives thereof formed by substitution. Thus the terms alkyl and or substituted alkyl include allyl groups such as but not limited to allyl methylallyl di methylallyl and the like. The term allylic position or allylic site refers to the saturated carbon atom of an allylic group. Thus a group such as a hydroxyl group or other substituent group attached at an allylic site can be referred to as allylic. 

In some embodiments the alkylamine is a compound of Formula I CH CRR NRR I where n is an integer from 3 to 15 and R R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl. Further in some embodiments the alkylamine is selected from the group consisting of CHNH CHNH and CHNH .

The presently disclosed subject matter further provides in some embodiments a sensor for detecting hydrogen wherein the chemiresistant film further comprises alkylhiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles. In this regard the metal alloy nanoparticles of the presently disclosed subject matter can be coated with a mixed monolayer comprised of alkylamine and alkylthiolate groups such that a single metal alloy nanoparticle contains both alkylamine groups and alkylthiolate groups. The term thiol refers to a sulfur containing SH group. As such the term thiolate is used herein to refer to a deprotonated thiol group or S. In some embodiments the alkylthiolate is a compound of Formula II CH CRR S II where n is an integer from 3 to 15 and Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl. In some embodiments the alkylhiolate is CHS .

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor is provided wherein the chemiresistant film comprises surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein the surfactant is a compound of Formula III CH CRR NR III where n is an integer from 3 to 15 Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl or substituted alkyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of Cl I NO SO ClO and PF. In some embodiments the surfactant is tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr .

The term metal alloy nanoparticles is used herein to refer to nanoparticles comprised of at least two elements one of which is a metal. The term nanoparticles includes particles having an average size of in some embodiments between about 2 and about 100 nm in some embodiments between about 2 and about 50 nm and in some embodiments between about 2 and about 10 nm. A metal alloy of the presently disclosed subject matter can be comprised of a pure metal alloy or mixtures of metal alloys. For example the metal alloy can be a core shell particle that contains one metal in the core and another metal as a surrounding shell. As another example the metal alloy can be a mixed alloy that is an even mixture of two metals throughout the particle. As yet another example the metal alloy can be a phase segregated alloy where the metal alloy has different separate phases of each metal in the nanoparticle but are not necessarily arranged as a core and shell.

In accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter the metal alloy nanoparticles can comprise a roughly spherical metal core that is surrounded by an organic monolayer which in some embodiments can comprise an alkylamine an alkylthiolate or a surfactant. In this regard the term metal alloy nanoparticles can be used interchangeably with the phrase monolayer protected clusters or MPCs. In some embodiments the roughly spherical metal core can have a diameter of about 1 to about 3 nanometers and the roughly spherical metal core surrounded by an organic monolayer can have a diameter of about 2 to about 5 nanometers. 42 Further the metal alloy nanoparticles surrounded by an organic monolayer can be taken from a solution in which they are soluble and then deposited as films between electrodes where conductivity of the film is then increased upon exposure to hydrogen.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the metal alloy comprises palladium and a metal selected from the group consisting of gold silver and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the metal alloy is selected from the group consisting of a palladium alloy a palladium gold alloy and a palladium silver alloy. The reaction between hydrogen and Pd or Pd containing alloys is of great interest because of its relevance in hydrogen sensing and heterogeneous and homogeneous catalysis. It is appreciated that hydrogen spontaneously adsorbs to Pd as atomic hydrogen and diffuses into the lattice to form PdHx 6 . The initial phase Pd becomes phase PdHx through an phase transition. The Pd lattice spacing changes throughout these phase changes depending on the hydrogen concentration in the surrounding atmosphere 2 6 . The phase transitions and changes in lattice spacing lead to measurable changes in the optical properties 19 27 resistance 7 14 16 17 28 38 and mass 2 24 of the Pd.

Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that upon exposure to H PdHx forms and the chemiresistant films restructure and expand in volume to create more connected structure with fewer high resistance structures thus lowering the resistance between the electrodes and increasing conductivity of the chemiresistant film upon exposure to H. Further the conductivity of the chemiresistant films decreases with decreasing concentrations of H. As such in some embodiments the conductivity is reversible.

Typically to exhibit reversible Hsensing behavior films of alkylamine coated Pd nanoparticle are first conditioned with 100 H. Upon the first exposure to 100 Hduring the conditioning the conductivity of films of alkylamine coated Pd nanoparticles increases irreversibly by 1 to 5 orders of magnitude depending on the metal used Pd Pd Ag or Pd Au and alkyl chain length e.g. C C . This large increase in current can be attributed to an irreversible morphological restructuring of the Pd in the film due to the incorporation of atomic H into the Pd lattice forming PdH which increases the size of the nanoparticles and causes direct irreversible contact between the Pd nanoparticles. Removal from the hydrogen environment causes hydrogen to be removed from the film but the film has been irreversibly altered due to the connections made between the Pd nanoparticles. Subsequent exposures to and removal of hydrogen after conditioning exhibit a reversible increase or decrease in current. The response direction increase or decrease depends on the metal composition Pd Pd Ag or Pd Au and the alkyl chain length e.g. C C . An increase in current occurs for films that are still highly resistive after conditioning due to more connections made in the film upon the volume expansion of PdHversus Pd. A decrease in current occurs for films that have a low resistance after conditioning due to an even larger resistance for PdHcompared to Pd. There is a competition between the increase in resistance associated with PdHversus Pd and the decrease in resistance associated with volume expansion of PdHversus Pd. One mechanism depends on the initial resistance of the film. The conditioning step and two sensing mechanisms apply specifically to films of alkylamine coated Pd MPCs. TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles do not exhibit an irreversible conditioning step.

In some embodiments the chemiresistant films of the presently disclosed subject matter are deposited at least between the two electrodes of the sensors. As used herein the phrase at least between is used to refer to the location where the chemiresistant films are deposited onto the support. For example the chemiresistant films can be deposited onto the support such that the film is present only in the space between the electrodes. As another example the chemiresistant films can be deposited on the support such that the film is present in the space between the electrodes and over the electrodes. Further as another example the chemiresistant film can be deposited on the support such that the film is present on a substantial portion of the support including but not limited to the space between the electrodes over the electrodes and over other areas of the support.

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film is drop cast deposited at least between the at least two electrodes. In this regard one or more drops of a solution in which alkylamine alkylthiolate and or surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles are solubilized e.g. with toluene can be deposited drop wise at least between the two electrodes and allowed to dry until the solvent has evaporated.

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film is micro contact printed at least between the two electrodes. In this regard a solution comprising coated nanoparticles can be used as ink for micro contact printing onto solid substrates 39 . Methods of micro contact printing include inking a patterned polydimethylsiloxane PDMS stamp with featured lines e.g. lines approximately 1.3 m wide approximately 0.5 m long with approximately 2.2. m separation with a chemiresistant film solution allowing the solution to dry for several minutes and then bringing the stamp into contact with a support for several seconds.

Further provided in some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter is a method for detecting hydrogen in a sample. In some embodiments the method comprises providing a sensor in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter applying a voltage potential between at least two electrodes exposing the sensor to a gas sample and detecting a change in the current between the at least two electrodes to thereby detect hydrogen in the sample. In some embodiments of the method the hydrogen is present in the gas sample at a concentration of at least about 0.08 . In some embodiments the hydrogen is present in the gas sample at a concentration of about 9.6 to about 0.08 .

The following Examples have been included to illustrate modes of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill will appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

The following chemicals were used as received. Sodium borohydride 99 tetraoctylammonium bromide 99 toluene 99.9 and 2 propanol 99.9 were purchased from VWR Scientific Products. Octylamine CHNH and dodecylamine CHNH were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. 1 hexadecylamine CHNH containing CHNHand 1 octadecylamine CHNH were purchased from Alfa Aesar Co. Barnstead Nanopure water 17.8 M cm was employed for all aqueous solutions.

Hexanethiolate coated CHS Pd nanoparticles were synthesized according to a modified Brust reaction 40 42 . Briefly 0.40 g of KPdClwas dissolved in 25 ml of water and 1.00 g of tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr was dissolved in 150 ml of toluene. The two solutions were combined and stirred until all of the PdCl transferred into the toluene phase. The toluene phase was separated and 90 l of hexanethiol corresponding to a 1 2 thiol Pd ratio was added to the toluene and stirred. The solution was cooled to approximately 0 C. using an ice bath and a 10 fold excess of NaBH 0.46 g in 10 ml of water with respect to Pd was added to the toluene solution with stirring. The solution turned black within a few seconds indicating the formation of metallic Pd MPCs. 10 ml of additional water was added and the solution was stirred overnight. The toluene layer was separated and removed by rotary evaporation. The remaining black solid was suspended in 200 ml of acetonitrile and collected by filtration on a glass fritted B chner funnel. The black solid product was washed with an additional 250 ml of acetonitrile and thoroughly dried before collecting. The average diameter of hexanethiolate coated Pd nanoparticle prepared this way is approximately 3.0 nm 42 .

Alkylamine coated Pd nanoparticles were synthesized similar to hexanethiolate coated Pd nanoparticles and alkylamine coated Au nanoparticles 43 . Briefly 0.50 g 1.59 mmol of KPdClwas dissolved in 20 ml of water and 1.92 g 3.51 mmol of tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr was dissolved in 100 ml of toluene by ultrasonication for 10 min. The two solutions were combined and stirred until all of the PdCl transferred into the toluene phase. The appropriate alkylamine ligand was then added to the rapidly stirring mixture in a 12 1 alkylamine Pd ratio and allowed to stir for an additional 2 h. This ratio corresponds to 0.019 mol of alkylamine which is 3.10 ml for octylamine CHNH 3.39 g for dodecylamine CHNH and 4.42 g for 1 hexadecylamine containing 1 octadecylamine CHNH CHNH . The aqueous layer immediately turned a beige murky white upon addition of the alkylamine presumably due to the formation of a complex between the protonated amine and the PdCl. After approximately 2 hours of stirring 0.84 g NaBH 0.022 mol was dissolved in 10 ml of water and added to the two phase solution with stirring. The solution turned black within a few seconds indicating the formation of coated Pd nanoparticles. 10 ml of additional water was added and the solution stirred overnight. The white and cloudy precipitate in the water phase disappeared and became colorless as the reaction proceeded. The toluene layer was separated and removed by rotary evaporation. The remaining black solid was suspended in 200 ml of acetonitrile and collected by filtration on a glass fritted B chner funnel. The black solid product was washed with an additional 150 ml of acetonitrile 150 ml of ethanol and thoroughly dried before collecting. The average diameter of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles was 3.0 0.8 nm as determined by atomic force microscopy AFM measurements.

Alkylamine coated Pd Ag and Pd Au alloy nanoparticles were synthesized in a 10 1 Pd Ag or Pd Au ratio by adding the corresponding salts in a 10 1 ratio in the reaction mixture. AgCFOand HAuCl. 3HO were used for Ag and Au respectively. AgCFOwas directly soluble in the toluene phase while AuCl was phase transferred into toluene with TOABr along with PdCl. The amount of alkylamine and NaBHwas 12 1 and 15 1 with respect to total metal content. Nuclear magnetic resonance NMR and UV vis spectroscopy measurements on coated Pd Pd Ag and Pd Au nanoparticles was consistent with the successful synthesis of coated Pd Pd Ag and Pd Au nanoparticles.

Tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles were synthesized in a manner similar to the hexanethiolate coated Pd nanoparticles except the hexanethiol was not added. TOABr stabilized nanoparticles are insoluble when isolated as a powder 44 . Thus after reduction and separation from the water phase the toluene solution containing the particles was reduced to approximately 50 ml by rotary evaporation filtered with a microdisc filter acrodisc 2 m PTFE membrane to remove insoluble materials and then used from solution. TOABr coated Pd Ag alloy nanoparticles were synthesized by adding AgCFOto the solution in a final 10 1 Pd Ag molar ratio and performing the rest of the synthesis the same as that for pure Pd. The 10 fold excess of NaBHwas with respect to the total metal. The average diameter of TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles was 7.0 0.5 nm as determined by AFM measurements. UV vis spectroscopy was consistent with the formation of metal nanoparticles but NMR was not possible since the product could not be purified and isolated as a solid.

Two Au electrodes separated by 23 m were fabricated in a clean room by photolithography on a Si SiOsubstrate. The 100 nm thick Au electrodes were sputtered over a 10 thick Cr adhesion layer during the process. Wire leads were attached to the Au electrodes with Ag epoxy cured 12 h 80 C. which was further insulated with an overlayer of torr seal epoxy cured 12 h 80 C. . The electrode was cleaned by rinsing in acetonitrile dichloromethane acetone ethanol and 2 propanol before drying under N. The device was then placed in a UVO ozone cleaner Jelight Company Inc. Irvine Calif. for 10 min before depositing the films of nanoparticles over the electrodes. Films of alkylamine coated nanoparticles were drop cast deposited using 1 to 3 drops of a 4 to 70 mg ml toluene solution. The concentration and number of drops were chosen to obtain current through the film above the baseline. Films of TOABr coated nanoparticles were drop cast deposited using 2 drops of an approximately 2.6 mg ml toluene solution which is the concentration in terms of Pd when reducing the volume to 50 ml by rotary evaporation.

Gas sensing was performed with a CH Instruments 660A Austin Tex. electrochemical workstation operating in chronoamperometry mode. The current was monitored with time while a 0.3 V potential was applied between the two electrodes and the sample was exposed to alternating flows of pure Nor air and different concentrations of Hin the Nor air carrier gas. A range of Hconcentrations was obtained using a set of flow meters Cole Parmer 2 error at full scale located between the sample and gas cylinders and operated by a 3 way valve which allows a constant Hflow during mixing with Nand avoids over pressures and artificial current spikes during sensing. The different concentrations of Hand the total flow rates H N air used were as follows 9.6 0.3 3.1 0.1 L.min 6.2 0.2 4.9 0.1 L.min 3.2 0.1 4.7 0.1 L.min 1.0 0.1 4.7 0.1 L.min 0.50 0.02 4.6 0.1 L.min 0.21 0.02 4.6 0.1 L.min 0.11 0.02 4.6 0.1 L.min 0.08 0.02 4.6 0.1 L.min . The flow rates and Hconcentrations were similar using Nor air as the carrier gas due to their similar density.

Films of alkylamine and TOABr coated Pd and Pd alloy nanoparticles were drop cast deposited onto Si 100 TiW 50 acute over Au 2000 acute over and electrode devices for surface reflectance Fourier Transform Infrared FTIR spectroscopy and AFM experiments respectively. FTIR data were acquired using a Digilab FTS 7000 spectrometer Varian Cambridge Mass. in reflectance mode with a liquid N cooled MCT detector. AFM images were acquired with a Veeco Digital Instruments Nanoscope 3A Multimode Scanning Probe Microscope Santa Barbara Calif. using a Si tip operating in tapping mode. H Proton NMR and UV vis spectroscopy were obtained with an INOVA 500 MHz and a Varian Cary 50 spectrometer respectively.

There is almost no current through the film of CHNH CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles because the cluster edge to edge distance is too large for significant electron hopping to occur which is expected to be greater than 20 considering that the distance is estimated to be approximately 1.2 times the chain length of one ligand due to interdigitation of the monolayers from adjacent clusters.

The I V curve of the film of TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles is markedly different compared to that of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles. The current is on the same order of magnitude but the plot does not show ohmic behavior where the current is the same as a function of potential on the forward and reverse scan. Instead there is large hysteresis on the forward and reverse scan which is consistent with the current being dominated by ionic current likely due to the large excess of TOA and Br ions in the film since these nanoparticles could not be purified as a solid.

The final conductivity value is above the baseline which can be due to steady state ionic conductivity or some electron hopping through the film. The data in thus shows that films of alkylamine coated Pd nanoparticles conduct by an electron hopping process and those of TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles conduct mainly by ions.

In contrast to CHS coated Pd nanoparticles the conductivity of films of CHNH and CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles change much more appreciably in the presence of 100 Hwithout any ozone or heat pre treatment. shows that the current passing through a film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles increased irreversibly from about 1 10A to 5 10A during the first 300 s exposure see inset . The current continued to rise slightly when in 100 air and then increased to 5.0 10A upon the second Hexposure. This trend continued until the film reached a final current of 1.2 10A. The current passing through the film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles overall increased by 6 orders of magnitude during the 1000 s of various exposures to Hand air whereas the film of CHS coated Pd nanoparticles only increased by a factor of 1.4. This indicates that the more weakly coordinated octylamines do not hinder the Pd from reacting with H. The irreversible increase in current over the 1000 s is likely due to restructuring of the Pd film during repeated exposure and removal from 100 H which is well known to occur for Pd materials 6 .

The increase in current can be due to film restructuring in both cases but the kinetics are different for the two films. Films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles restructure and stabilize in a more continuous step which is less than 1000 s while films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles initially show a somewhat stable reversible response to Hthat changes to a large irreversible increase in current at times greater than 1000 s. The longer time required to reach the higher current is likely due to the longer alkyl chains slowing down the reaction and film restructuring process. The final restructured film for the CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles has a higher final resistance compared to the restructured film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles.

Table 1 summarizes the results of the conditioning during initial exposure to 100 Hfor films comprised of CHNH CHNH CHNH CHNH and TOABr coated pure Pd nanoparticles. The table displays the average initial current time it took for the current to increase by one order of magnitude during initial exposure to 100 H total time it took in s to reach the final stable current and the final stable current after conditioning. Standard deviations and ranges are based on three samples for each type of Pd film studied. The initial current reflects the chain length dependence on electron hopping conductivity except for TOABr coated Pd films which conduct ionically.

Table 1 shows that the time to reach an increase of one order of magnitude in current is about 10 times quicker for films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles compared to those of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles and the total time to reach a final stable current is longer for films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles. Films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles also displayed two different changes in current. Films of CHNH CHNH coated Pd and TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles do not have any data because the former responds little to Hand the latter does not require any conditioning for stable reversible responses.

After the first conditioning see the in the current through the film is on the order of 10A and the current increases in the presence of Hdown to 1.0 but decreases for lower Hconcentrations down to 0.11 . The response for this film is not totally reversible as indicated by the constantly shifting baseline current to higher values which is undesirable for sensing. The unstable current is due to attempts of film calibration at this stage of current indicated by the arrows different type in . shows the current response of the same film after it reached a higher stable baseline current on the order of 10A. The response completely changed where the current decreased in the presence of Hdown to concentrations of 0.11 similar to films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles. shows the change in current of a selected film of TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles in the presence of H. The film exhibited a stable reversible increase in current in the presence of Hconcentrations ranging from 9.6 down to 0.11 without any pretreatment or film conditioning. There is a slight drift in the baseline to smaller current over time due to a drop in the baseline ionic conductivity with time as shown in .

The response to hydrogen for films of Pd Ag and Pd Au alloy nanoparticles was next determined. These alloys are significant because Ag is cheaper than Pd which could reduce the cost of sensors or catalysts based on these materials. From a chemical standpoint Pd Ag has been shown to be more sensitive since Ag can adsorb more H into its lattice and Pd Au alloys have shown faster response times due to Au hindering the phase transition during H diffusion into Pd 25 27 . I V curves obtained on films of the alloy nanoparticles were very similar to those of the pure Pd and are not shown. shows the change in current for a film of CHNH coated Pd Ag nanoparticles when first exposed to 100 H. The current increased in the presence of 100 Hfrom about 1.0 10A to 1.2 10A which is approximately 2 orders of magnitude. This is significantly different from the 6 order of magnitude increase observed for pure Pd films see . The presence of less than 10 Ag in the alloy led to much higher resistance in the film following restructuring in 100 H. Similarly prepared films of CHNH coated Pd Ag C12NHPdAg films exhibited very low baseline currents and did not change significantly in the presence of 100 H. shows the change in current for a film of CHNH coated Pd Au C12NHPdAu nanoparticles in the presence of 100 H. In contrast to films of CHNH coated Pd Ag nanoparticles the CHNH coated Pd Au film exhibited a dramatic jump in current to 10A in about 300 s and eventually increased to about 1.0 10A similar to films of CHNH coated pure Pd nanoparticles.

One difference between the Pd Au alloy and pure Pd is that the current constantly increased in ambient air upon only one exposure to 100 H whereas pure Pd showed some initial reversibility to Hduring the first exposures. As with films of TOABr coated Pd films of TOABr coated Pd Ag exhibited stable reversible increases in current immediately in the presence of 100 H. Table 2 summarizes the behavior of the various films of Pd alloy nanoparticles that were conditioned with 100 Hand air. The table displays the same parameters shown in Table 1 and reflects the smaller and slower current increase for Pd Ag alloys and the faster larger increase for Pd Au alloys. Again TOABr coated Pd Ag does not show any data because it does not require any conditioning for stable reversible responses.

In contrast to films of alkylamine coated nanoparticles the reactivity of TOABr coated nanoparticles with His insensitive to the metal composition for the ratio studied. The explanation for the different types of sensing increase and decrease in current is the same as that described for the films of pure Pd nanoparticles.

Fourier Transform Infrared FTIR spectroscopy was used to probe the organic portion of the films before and after exposure to Hto gain insight into the film restructuring process and sensing mechanism. show surface FTIR spectra for selected films of CHNH coated Pd CHNH coated Pd Ag CHNH coated Pd and CHNH coated Pd Au nanoparticles respectively before and after exposure to 100 Hthat were placed in the same cell as electrodes containing the same films for conductivity measurements. Before exposure all of the spectra show absorbance peaks similar to those previously reported for alkylamine monolayers on Pd 51 and Au 43 . For example the spectrum for the film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles before Hexposure displays absorbances at 3280 cm 1604 cm and 1000 cm which corresponds to the N H stretch N H bend and C N stretch respectively as indicated 43 .

The peaks at 3000 2850 cmare due to the asymmetric and symmetric CHand CHstretches and the peak at 1462 cmis due to a CHscissor mode as indicated. In addition a sharp peak was observed at 2167 cm which is in the region of a C N or C C stretching vibration. Without wishing to be bound by theory this is likely due to a C N stretch that arises from converting the R CH NHto a R C N by oxidation of amines catalyzed by Pd during the synthesis. This peak was assigned to the terminal isocyanide ligand. The spectra also showed peaks at approximately 1964 2100 1700 cm and approximately 1611 1700 1500 cm which was assigned to a doubly bridged and triply bridged isocyanide ligand to Pd respectively 5 . The spectra are mostly featureless in these regions before Hexposure.

Taken together with the current data and with regard to the data presented in shows a strong correlation between monolayer desorption and change in film conductivity during the first exposure to 100 H. Films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles CHNH coated Pd Au nanoparticles and CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles second conditioning increased in conductivity by 5 6 orders of magnitude after a 500 s 300 s and 800 s exposure respectively and showed a correspondingly large loss of the alkylamine monolayer in the IR spectra 80 62 and 32 respectively . In addition the nitriles were reduced to amines for pure Pd and the coordination environment of the NHgroups was altered. This shows that monolayer desorption and changes accompany film restructuring and conductivity increases. Films of CHNH coated Pd Ag nanoparticles and CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles first conditioning showed a much smaller 1 2 order of magnitude conductivity change after 400 s and 800 s respectively and a correspondingly much smaller loss of alkylamines from the surface 4 and 12 respectively . Small changes in the spectrum include loss of the nitrile peak and changes in the NHstretch. The IR and conductivity data show that for pure Pd the longer CHNH monolayer enhances stability and reduces the reactivity to 100 H. The presence of less than 10 Ag enhanced stability of the monolayer and reduced the amount of film restructuring for CHNH coated nanoparticles compared to pure Pd while the presence of less than 10 Au reduced monolayer stability and increased the restructuring for CHNH coated nanoparticles compared to pure Pd. This can be due to stronger bonding between alkylamines and Pd Ag as compared to alkylamines and Pd Au. Previous studies showed that alkylamine coated Au nanoparticles are not stable in air 43 while the present data indicates that pure Pd is stable.

Optical microscopy and atomic force microscopy AFM was used to directly image various films before and after exposure to 100 Hto determine if morphological changes occur during the film conditioning restructuring process. shows an optical image and shows the corresponding AFM image in the same area as indicated by the dashed box of a film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles drop cast deposited on an electrode device before any exposure to H. and shows the optical and corresponding AFM image respectively of the same area on the same film after exposure to 100 Hfor 500 s compressed air for 200 s and ambient air for 5 min during the AFM set up. The optical image shows a change in the morphology with the appearance of several black features in the image. The corresponding AFM image shows bright features that correlate with these black spots in the optical image indicating that these are raised features or islands that are approximately 100 nm tall that form on top of the surface. The arrows in are reference points showing the same features on the surface as in . Morphological changes upon the incorporation of hydrogen into Pd and subsequent removal are appreciated 6 . The morphological changes observed by microscopy are consistent with the 5 6 order of magnitude conductivity increase and 80 loss of CHNH ligands from the nanoparticles observed from the I V curves and surface FTIR data respectively. show optical and AFM images respectively of the same area of the same surface after another 1 h exposure to ambient air. Several of the black features in the optical image and bright features in the AFM image disappeared showing that there are slow morphological changes that occur in the film over longer periods of time after exposure to H. Many of the regions appear to heal themselves as indicated by the circle marked 1 but several regions were also altered irreversibly as indicated by the circle marked 2 .

Further AFM and optical microscopy were performed to determine changes in film morphology upon conditioning restructuring with 100 H. In order to correlate morphology changes with conductivity changes alkylamine Pd and Pd alloy nanoparticles were drop cast deposited between electrodes from a toluene solution containing 70 mg ml of the nanoparticles and optical and AFM images of the films before and after conditioning were obtained until the electrodes displayed stable currents indicated on the bottom left corner of the optical images . AFM images were taken in between the Au electrodes where most of the current flows dashed rectangles . shows the optical and corresponding AFM images as indicated by the dashed box of the same area on the same film after exposure to 100 H. shows the optical and corresponding AFM image for a film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles before and after exposure to 100 Hfor 500 s. Frame 9A3 shows cracks on the film top right corner that were not present in Frame 9A1 indicating significant morphology changes during conditioning. Comparison between AFM images in Frames 9A2 and 9A4 show morphology changes on the nanoscale as well. Frame 1 shows the optical and corresponding AFM image for a film of CHNH coated Pd Ag nanoparticles before and after exposure to 100 Hfor 400 s. There are no noticeable changes in the optical images Frames 9B1 and 9B3 . There are small changes in the AFM images Frames 9B2 and 9B4 including the formation of new pits in the image enlargement of existing pits and other small changes.

The optical and AFM images in are consistent with the conductivity and surface FTIR data obtained on the same films under similar conditions. Films of CHNH coated Pd and CHNH coated Pd Au nanoparticles showed the largest morphology changes which is consistent with the large loss of alkyl chains from the surface as determined by FTIR 80 and 62 respectively and the large 5 6 order of magnitude increase in current. This shows that loss of the monolayer and large structural changes occur during the large increases in conductivity upon conditioning. Films of CHNH coated Pd Ag and CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles showed the smallest morphology changes. The small morphology change is consistent with the relatively smaller 4 and 36 loss of the alkyl chains as determined by FTIR for CHNH coated Pd Ag and CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles respectively. This is also consistent with the smaller 1 2 order of magnitude increase in current after conditioning for the film of CHNH coated Pd Ag nanoparticles. This is not consistent with the 5 6 order of magnitude current increase for the film of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles however. This shows that film conductivity can increase significantly without noticeable structural changes in the film. Smaller changes can occur below the resolution of the AFM and optical images in . The large increase in conductivity with relatively smaller structural changes can result from the slower kinetics of the film restructuring process. In general the morphology data in correlate well with the loss of monolayer determined by FTIR and conductivity changes measured during conditioning.

The analytical signal used for the detection of His percent response as described by the following equation Response 100 100 where iis the initial baseline current in 100 N iis the current in the presence of H and i i i . A negative value is equal to a decrease in the current upon exposure to H. shows the average calibration curves plotting the response y axis versus the Hconcentration x axis for the six tested films not forced through the origin . The points and curves represent the average of three samples. Frames A and B show the response of films whose conductivity increased in the presence of Hfrom 0.0 to 0.50 and 0.0 to 9.6 H respectively. Frame C and D shows the response of films whose conductivity decreased in the presence of Hfrom 0.0 to 0.50 and 0.0 to 9.6 H respectively. All the films displayed fairly linear sensing behavior below 0.50 H. The behavior from 0.0 to 9.6 Hdepended upon the type of stabilizer surrounding the particles. Films of alkylamine coated nanoparticles exhibited non linear calibration curves above 0.50 due to the phase transition which occurs anywhere from 0.3 to 2.0 H and saturation of Hin Pd at higher concentrations 2 6 23 .

Films of TOABr stabilized nanoparticles displayed much more linear behavior over the entire range more pronounced for TOABr coated Pd nanoparticles which is not unexpected since the sensing mechanism is different. The slopes of the linear plots in reflect the following sensitivity order for films that increase in current TOABr Pd TOABr Pd Ag CHNHPd Ag. The slopes of the linear plots in reflect the following sensitivity order for films that decrease in current CHNHPd at intermediate current 10.5 CHNHPd Au 4.9 CHNHPd 2.9 CHNHPd at high current 0.8 . All of the films lead to sensor responses below the explosive limit for H. Films of CHNH coated Pd and Pd Ag nanoparticles exhibited the lowest detection limit 0.08 while films of CHNH coated Pd Au nanoparticles followed by those of CHNH coated Pd Ag silver nanoparticles displayed the fastest response time of 10 15 and 10 20 s respectively. It is appreciated that Pd Au and Pd Ag alloy films show faster response times and greater sensitivity respectively 25 27 . This is consistent with the present data on CHNH coated Pd Au films which responded very fast during conditioning and also showed the fastest sensor response times 10 15 s . Films of Pd Au alloys described previously 27 were less sensitive to H however the present films of CHNH coated Pd Au nanoparticles were more sensitive compared to films of CHNH coated pure Pd nanoparticles. Some data sets are 

Table 4 summarizes the overall sensing characteristics of the six different films. The table displays the response direction current increase or decrease limit of detection percent response measured at 1 H and range of response times for 3 different samples of each type of film.

The foregoing examples demonstrate the hydrogen reactivity of drop cast films of chemically synthesized alkylamine coated Pd Pd Ag 10 1 and Pd Au 10 1 nanoparticles and films of tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr stabilized Pd and Pd Ag 10 1 nanoparticles. The as prepared films are highly reactive to Hand do not require Oor thermal treatment as previously observed for films of CHS coated Pd nanoparticles. The films can be placed into two categories those that decrease in current in the presence of Hand those that increase. Films of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles CHNH coated Pd nanoparticles second conditioning and CHNH coated Pd Au nanoparticles exhibit large 5 6 order of magnitude irreversible increases in current upon the first exposure to 100 H which is accompanied by a large loss of the alkylamine monolayer and noticeable morphological changes in the case of CHNH coated Pd nanoparticle films. After this irreversible conditioning restructuring the films exhibit stable reversible decreases in current in the presence of Hconcentrations down to 0.08 . Films of CHNH coated Pd first conditioning and CHNH coated Pd Ag nanoparticles exhibit a much smaller 1 2 order of magnitude irreversible increase in current upon the first exposure to 100 H which is accompanied by very little loss of the alkylamine monolayer and correspondingly small morphological changes in the film.

Further after this irreversible conditioning restructuring the films exhibit reversible increases in current in the presence of Hconcentrations down to 0.08 which is stable for the case of coated Pd Ag nanoparticles. Films comprised of TOABr coated Pd and Pd Ag nanoparticles exhibit reversible stable increases in current in the presence of Hconcentrations down to 0.11 without any pre treatment or conditioning. Alkylamine coated Pd nanoparticles change in current through higher resistance of PdHx or lower resistance during volume increases of PdHx and the sensing mechanism of ammonium coated Pd nanoparticles shows ionic conductivity. All of the films are easy to synthesize on a large scale and the devices are easy to construct leading to responses to Hbelow the explosive limit.

Throughout this application various publications are referenced. All such references are incorporated herein by reference including the references set forth in the following list.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

