---

title: Crimping device for attaching a medical suture thread to a medical suture needle
abstract: A crimping die including a fixed die and a moving die which moves away from or toward the fixed die, and a thread guide arranged closely to the edge of the stop hole formed in the proximal end face of an eyeless needle held by the crimping die and having a surface for guiding the suture thread to the stop hole. The thread guide is arranged such that an external force does not act on the suture thread on the outside of the stop hole formed in the eyeless needle as a crimping operation progresses when the proximal end face of the eyeless needle is crimped by the crimping die, or arranged to move in the direction in which an external force does not act.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08826958&OS=08826958&RS=08826958
owner: MANI, Inc.
number: 08826958
owner_city: Utsunomiya-shi, Tochigi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080225
---
The present invention relates to a crimping device used to bond a suture thread to a stop hole formed in a face of the proximal end of a medical suture needle and in particular relates to a crimping device that prevents a shearing force from acting on a suture thread when the area corresponding to a stop hole in the proximal end of a medical suture needle is crimped.

As a medical suture needle an eyeless needle is known to have a sharp point at one end and a stop hole formed in a face of the other end i.e. the proximal end face . In this medical suture needle one end of a suture thread is inserted into the stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end and the area of the stop hole corresponding to the depth of the stop hole i.e. the proximal end is crimped thereby bonding the suture thread. Medical suture needles of several types that differ in specification have been provided. However many of the suture thread needles corresponding to these specifications are set to from approximately 0.14 mm to approximately 1.40 mm in thickness. Generally the diameter of a stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end of each of such medical suture needles is approximately half the thickness of the needle.

A device for crimping the proximal end of a medical suture needle includes a pair of crimping dies that are driven by a driving device such as a motor as a representative example so as to move away from or toward each other. While the leading end of a suture thread is inserted in the stop hole of the suture needle the proximal end of this needle is supplied between the separated crimping dies. In this state the crimping dies are moved closer to each other thereby crimping the area corresponding to the stop hole in the proximal end.

Inserting the leading end of a suture thread into a stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end of a medical suture need is a precise task. Therefore such a crimping device e.g. see Patent Document 1 as described below has been proposed. This crimping device is provided with a thread guide so as to correspond to a pair of crimping dies composing the crimping device. While a medical suture needle is held by the crimping dies a suture thread is guided by the thread guide that has approached the stop hole of the medical suture device thereby inserting the suture thread into the stop hole.

The crimping device disclosed in the Patent Document 1 includes a lower die fixed to a frame and an upper die that moves away from or toward the lower die. This device is configured such that the thread guide including a first guide member and a second guide member that have a first face and a second face respectively is disposed opposite a stop hole in an eyeless needle held by the lower and upper dies. In particular an adjustment is made so that while the side face of each of the guide members is kept in contact with the side face of the lower die the first and second flat faces serving as guide faces correspond to the position of the edge of a stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end of a medical suture needle held between the upper and lower dies.

Accordingly a medical suture needle to which a suture thread is to be bonded is supplied between the lower and upper dies and the face of the proximal end of this needle is brought into contact with the side faces of the guide members. This stabilizes the crimping position of the lower and upper dies from the face of the proximal end. The suture thread slides along the first or second flat face of the thread guide toward the medical suture thread needle held by the lower and upper dies thereby enabling the suture thread to be guided securely into a stop hole.

In the technology disclosed in the Patent Document 1 while a medical suture needle of uniform thickness is crimped only the upper die changes its position relative to the lower die and the thread guide without changing the positional relation between the lower die and the thread guide as shown in . Therefore when the suture needle is crimped by moving the upper die closer to the lower die the size of stop hole decreases by an amount corresponding to the crimping allowance. As its size decreases the axis of the stop hole displaces toward the lower die . Consequently one end of a suture thread is supported by a guide face composed of the first and second flat faces of the thread guide while the other end is inserted into the stop hole whose size has been reduced. This may lead to the problem of the suture thread s being bent see and damaged by the thread guide . The technology described in the Patent Document 1 overcomes this problem by forming an inclining face on the thread guide which face is opposite the lower die .

In the crimping device described above it is difficult to adjust the positional relation between the thread guide and the edge of a stop hole in a medical suture needle held by the lower and upper dies. That is adjusting the leading end of the inclining face so as to be located at the same level as the edge of the stop hole decreases the size of the stop hole during the crimping of the proximal end with the result that the axis of the stop hole may displace toward the lower die. This causes a problem same as that described above. In addition adjusting the flat face of the thread guide so that the flat face is located at the same level as the edge of the stop hole leads to another problem. That is a suture thread if it is not stiff moves along the inclining face strikes against the face of the proximal end of the suture needle and is hindered from being inserted into the stop hole smoothly.

In particular where no inclining face is formed on the thread guide and each flat face is located so as to correspond to the edge of the stop hole a suture thread is able to be guided into the stop hole smoothly. However this may lead to the problem that a level difference between the flat face of the thread guide and the edge of the stop hole reduced in size increases and consequently a significant shearing force acts thereon.

Unlike the technique disclosed in the Patent Document 1 in which the upper and lower dies are composed of a movable and fixed die respectively another proposed crimping device performs crimping by moving two movable dies the same distance relative to the axis of a medical suture needle. This crimping device is free from such a problem as the thread guide s exerting a shearing force on a suture thread. However this type of crimping device suffers from the problem that maintenance or the adjustment of the thickness of the medical suture needle to be crimped is extremely troublesome.

It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a crimping device that is able to insert a suture thread into a stop hole smoothly and is able to prevent a shearing force from being exerted on the suture thread.

In order to overcome the foregoing problem there is provided a crimping device configured such that a medical suture thread inserted in a stop hole formed in a face of the proximal end of a medical suture needle is bonded to the medical suture needle by crimping the proximal end. The crimping device includes a crimping die including a fixed die and a movable die that moves away from or toward the fixed die and a thread guide that approaches an edge of the stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end of the medical suture needle held by the crimping die thereby guiding the medical suture thread into the stop hole. The thread guide is disposed so that when the proximal end of the medical suture needle is crimped by the crimping die the thread guide does not exert an external force on the suture thread exposed on the outside of the stop hole formed in the medical suture needle as a crimping operation with the crimping die progresses alternatively the thread guide is moved in a direction in which the thread guide does not exert an external force on the suture thread exposed on the outside of the stop hole in the medical suture.

The crimping device according to the present invention has a guide face that approaches the edge of a stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end of a medical suture needle held by crimping dies. This makes it easy to insert a suture thread into the stop hole by moving the suture thread along this guide face.

In particular the thread guide is disposed so as to prevent an external force from acting on a suture thread as a crimping operation of the proximal end of a medical suture needle progresses. Alternatively the thread guide is configured so as to move in the direction in which an external force is prevented from acting on the suture thread. This prevents a suture thread from becoming subject to a shearing force or thus being damaged.

Hereinafter most preferred current embodiments of a crimping device of the present invention will be described. The crimping device according to the present invention inserts a suture thread into a stop hole of a medical suture needle hereinafter referred to as an eyeless needle which has at its one end a needle point that is inserted in the tissue of a living body and at the other end i.e. the proximal end the stop hole formed in the face thereof. The crimping device then crimps the area corresponding to the stop hole in the face of the proximal end of the eyeless needle thereby bonding the suture thread to the eyeless needle.

In particular the device is arranged such that a thread guide is disposed or moved in order to prevent an external force especially a shearing force from acting on a suture thread exposed on the outside of a stop hole in an eyeless needle as a crimping operation for the proximal end of the eyeless needle progresses while this proximal end is held between a pair of crimping dies.

First the entire configuration of a crimping device according to the present embodiment will be explained briefly with reference to the accompanying drawings. is a side view of the crimping device. The configuration of the basic structure of the crimping device A according to the present embodiment is the same as that described in the Patent Document 1 described above. Therefore a mechanism for crimping the eyeless needle is explained briefly with reference to .

The crimping device A shown in has a crimping die B that includes a fixed die and a movable die that moves away from or toward the fixed die . The fixed die is attached to a frame of the crimping device A via an X Y table that adjusts the position of the fixed die in relation to the movable die . The movable die is attached to a lever fixed to a shaft supported by a bearing not shown so as to be rotatable.

As shown in the lever has an approximately L shaped form. One end of the lever is fixed to the shaft and the movable die is attached to the other end. Accordingly such force as with which the lever moves toward the fixed die acts on the lever constantly. A spring is adjusted relative to this force such that force is applied to the movable die in the direction in which the movable die moves away from the fixed die . Thereby force applied to the movable die relative to the fixed die is adjusted so that the eyeless needle can be held by means of the crimping die B.

The range of rotation of the lever around the shaft is restricted by restricting members and . A crimping allowance in relation to the eyeless needle is set in advance according to the thickness of the eyeless needle. Each time the thickness of the eyeless needle to be crimped changes the restricting members and are adjusted to provide the optimum crimping allowance.

The lever is provided with a setting member which sets the crimping force required to crimp the eyeless needle. A drive member is connected to the lever via the setting member . When the drive member is driven a pre set force acts on the movable die attached to the lever . Thereby the movable die is brought into firm contact with the fixed die thus crimping the eyeless needle.

Specifically the setting member has a spring and the tension of the spring can be adjusted if necessary. In addition the drive member has an eccentric collar rotated and driven by a motor and a connection bar one end of which is connected to the eccentric collar and the other end of which is connected to the setting member . As the motor rotates the driving member is able to pull the connection bar toward the crimping die B.

A thread guide C is disposed in the vicinity of the crimping die B. The thread guide C has the function of guiding the movement of a suture thread when the suture thread is inserted in the eyeless needle held by the fixed die and the movable die composing the crimping die B.

In the crimping device A of the foregoing configuration the eyeless needle is held by sandwiching the proximal end of the eyeless needle by means of the crimping die B and in this state the suture thread is moved along the thread guide C and inserted into a stop hole formed in the face of the proximal end of the eyeless needle. Subsequently the motor is driven to cause a force to act on the lever via the connection bar and setting member in the direction in which the movable die is brought into firm contact with the fixed die . Thereby the proximal end of the eyeless needle is crimped and thus the suture thread can be connected to the eyeless needle.

When the eyeless needle is crimped in a manner as described above holding force to hold the eyeless needle can be adjusted to a required size by adjusting a spring . crimping force to crimp the eyeless needle can be adjusted to a required size by adjusting the spring of the setting member . Accordingly adjusting these as required makes it possible to crimp the eyeless needle with an appropriate crimping force that matches the thickness of the eyeless needle.

Next the relation between the crimping die B and the thread guide C will be described. is a side view explaining the relation between the crimping die and the thread guide. is a front view explaining the relation between the crimping die and the thread guide.

The thread guide C includes an L shaped block and has a first flat face serving as a guide face disposed horizontally and a second flat face serving as a guide face disposed vertically. The flat faces and meet substantially at a right angle at the intersection . In order that they intersect precisely at a right angle at the intersection it is preferable that the following method be adopted two rectangular parallelepipedic blocks are formed the flat faces and are formed independently on the corresponding blocks and these blocks are connected together by for example bolts. Depending on the thickness of a suture thread the intersection does not have to be precisely at a right angle in which case the face may be formed by a cutting process using a tool such as an end mill or milling cutter or by a discharging process.

The block is attached to the X Y table via a cushion member . The cushion member is made of a material of sufficient elasticity e.g. synthetic resin including urethane foam rubber etc. . When an external force acts on the block the block deforms according to the external force so as to absorb it.

On a specific higher part of the block a contact face is formed with which a pressing member comes into contact. In synchronization with the crimping operation of the movable die of the crimping die B the pressing member moves in the same direction as the movable die . Accompanying this movement the block composing the thread guide C can be moved in the direction of the arrow a.

It is enough for the pressing member to have a function such as to move the block in the direction of the arrow a in synchronization with the crimping operation of the movable die that is the crimping operation by the lever . The pressing member therefore does not have to be configured integrally with the movable die . In addition the degree of movement of the pressing member in the direction of the arrow a does not have to be equal to that of movement of the movable die but may be half the degree of movement of the movable die .

The degree of movement of the block in the direction of the arrow a due to the crimping operation differs according to the way in which the block is disposed. Specifically in the case where both the flat faces and are disposed so as to cross the direction of movement of the movable die as shown in when the flat faces and move by the same degree as does the movable die due to crimping the first flat face separates from the suture thread whereas the second flat face comes into contact with the suture thread and exerts a shearing force on this thread. To prevent this in the present embodiment the block is arranged to move in the direction of the arrow a by only half the degree of movement of the movable die .

In addition in the case where the first flat plate of the block is disposed perpendicular to the direction of the arrow a and the second flat face is disposed parallel to the arrow a the second flat face does not come into contact with a suture thread when crimping toward the movable die is in progress. Accordingly it is sufficient that the degree of movement of the block in the direction of the arrow a be half or more of the degree of movement of the movable die .

As described above the degree of movement of the block due to the crimping operation is determined by the angle of each of the flat faces and to the direction of movement of the movable die . It is therefore preferable that the position of the block composing the thread guide C be determined taking into account of for example the ease of handling of the dies of the crimping device.

The disposition and position of the block are not limited only to those shown in but may be axisymmetrical to the direction of movement of the movable die .

Therefore the following configuration may be adopted a stand not shown is set up in a frame and the pressing member is disposed on the stand movably and connected to the lever with a gear or the like disposed between them thereby the block is moved in the direction of the arrow a in synchronization with the crimping operation of the lever .

The present embodiment adopts the simplest structure in which the pressing member is integrally held by the movable die .

In the crimping device A of the foregoing configuration a suture thread is moved along the flat faces and of the block with the eyeless needle held and maintained between the fixed die and movable die thereby the suture thread can be inserted in the stop hole formed in the eyeless needle. In this state the lever is then driven to move the movable die closer to the fixed die . As the movable die comes closer to the fixed die the proximal end of the eyeless needle is crimped and in addition the block is moved in the direction of the arrow a by the pressing member .

Simultaneously with the crimping operation for the eyeless needle the block composing the thread guide C is moved in the direction of arrow a. Thereby the block is moved in the same direction as the movable die . This reduces the size of the stop hole in the face of the proximal end of the eyeless needle. Accordingly the flat faces and are prevented from bending the suture thread bonded to the stop hole. Thus a shearing force is prevented from being exerted on the suture thread.

After the crimping operation for the eyeless needle finishes the drive of lever stops. Then in order to separate the eyeless needle from the crimping die B the movable die is moved away from the fixed die . As the movable die moves away from the contact face the pressing member moves away from the contact face of the block . Consequently the block is subject to the elasticity of the cushion member and returns to its original position that is its initial position where the block is located in the vicinity of the fixed die .

In the present embodiment the block composing the thread guide C is configured to move in the direction of the arrow a in synchronization with the crimping operation of the movable die . However the present invention is not limited to this configuration but may be configured to rotate the block in synchronization with the crimping operation. In this case as the pressing member moves in the direction of the arrow a the first face is simply rotated so as to recede in the same direction as the arrow a.

In the present embodiment the first and second flat faces and of the block composing the thread guide C are disposed horizontally and vertically respectively. However the present invention is not limited to these dispositions. The first and second flat faces may be disposed perpendicular and parallel respectively to the direction of the movement of the movable die . The first and second flat faces may be disposed in any other directions as long as they are disposed so as to prevent their bending a suture thread when pressed and moved by the pressing member .

As shown in in the block composing the thread guide C the first flat face is disposed parallel to the direction of arrow b which is the direction of movement of the movable die and the second flat face is disposed perpendicular to the direction of the arrow b and further upstream of the first flat face in the direction in which the movable die is moved during crimping.

In the present embodiment while the eyeless needle is held between the fixed die and the movable die a suture thread is moved along each of the flat faces and of the block thereby enabling the suture thread to be inserted through the stop hole formed in the eyeless needle. In this state the lever is driven to move the movable die closer to the fixed die thereby crimping the proximal end of the eyeless needle as the movable die approaches. In this case accompanying this crimping operation the stop hole formed in the proximal end of the eyeless needle is reduced in size in the direction of the fixed die i.e. in the direction of the arrow b.

Consequently as the crimping operation for the eyeless needle progresses the suture thread separates from the second face i.e. in the direction of the arrow b along the first flat face of the block . This prevents the suture thread from being bent or subject to a shearing force.

The position of the block composing the thread guide C is not limited to that shown in . The block may be positioned axisymmetrical to the direction of movement of the movable die . In this case also as the crimping operation for the eyeless needle progresses the suture thread separates from the second flat face i.e. in the direction of the arrow b along the second flat face of the block . This prevents the suture thread from being bent or subject to a shearing force.

In each of the embodiments described above as the block composing the thread guide C any block may be used as long as the flat faces and are formed flat. A block of metal resin or the like or a block whose surface is coated with another material can be used the material of the block is not limited in particular.

A crimping device according to the present invention prevents when a suture thread is bonded to an eyeless needle a shearing force from acting on the suture thread. This makes it possible to stabilize the quality of a medical suture needle to which a suture thread is bonded thus yielding advantageous effects.

