---

title: Armor
abstract: A multi-layer armor comprises: an outer composite spaced from an inner composite. The outer composite comprises (a.) a high strength strike surface layer, (b.) a high strain rate sensitivity-hardening polymer and (c.) a second high strength layer. The inner composite comprises spaced silica glass layers, an acrylic glass layer and a spall liner. In one embodiment the armor is transparent and used to shield a vehicle windshield. In a second embodiment the armor is opaque and is attached to vehicle base armor. The armor may also be applied to a ship. The armor uses commercially available components, is relative inexpensive and is effective.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07938053&OS=07938053&RS=07938053
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07938053
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080819
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to armor. More particularly the invention relates to composite armor having penetration resistant and penetrator neutralizing layers.

Armor is known for protecting vehicle bodies and windows from bullets blast fragments and other projectiles of various types including explosively formed projectiles EFP s and rocket propelled grenades RPG s . Conventional steel armor for vehicles is rolled homogeneous plate formulated for strength and toughness. Annealed aluminum plate is also used as vehicle body armor. Silica glass and acrylic glass are components of transparent window armor. Acrylic glass is the polymer poly methyl methacrylate also referred to as methyl methacrylate resin.

Conventional steel plate armor has been thickened over time to counter improvements in the penetration effectiveness of projectile. Thickening has increased the weight of the armor up to the weight bearing limit of some military vehicles. Additional steel plate armor cannot be added to a weight limited vehicle. A weight limited vehicle is vulnerable to attack from newly developed penetrators and is also slower and less maneuverable.

There is a need in the art for an armor that is effective against the latest penetrators without adding weight to a military vehicle.

A composite armor comprises an outer composite spaced from an inner composite. The outer composite comprises at least 2 layers with a confined high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer between the layers. For vehicle body armor the layers are ballistic armor. For transparent armor the layers are silica glass and acrylic glass. The inner composite comprises 1 to 8 spaced silica glass layers followed by an acrylic glass layer.

The multi layer composites are made from commercially available materials. It is relative inexpensive and effective. In a transparent embodiment the armor is used to shield windshields and windows of an armored vehicle. In both the transparent and non transparent embodiments the armor is used for vehicle body panel armor. It is also used to armor a ship.

The invention is described with reference to the drawing. The drawing discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention and is not intended to limit the generally broad scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. The drawing is schematic and is not drawn to scale.

In penetrator approaches vehicle base armor at high velocity. The penetrator my be any round that is fired at an armored vehicle such as a .30 or .50 caliber armor piercing bullet rocket propelled grenade explosively formed projectile and the like. For example an explosively formed projectile travels at a velocity of up to 9000 feet second. A shaped charge penetrator from a rocket propelled grenade travels at a velocity in the range of 15 000 to 30 000 feet second. Protecting the vehicle is a composite armor plate comprising in sequence an outer composite an optional first air gap and an inner composite . The armor plate is attached to vehicle base armor or in front of a vehicle window preferably with a second air gap .

Penetrator strikes outer strike surface of outer composite . Outer composite comprises in sequence high strength strike surface layer high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer and second high strength layer . Outer composite functions to resist blast defeat a conventional kinetic energy projectile and slow and deform a high velocity projectile or rocket propelled grenade RPG jet.

High strength strike surface layer is a layer of ballistic armor such as surface hardened steel titanium armor ceramic glass and the like. Strike surface layer has the physical characteristics of rolled homogeneous armor such as that produced to U.S. Military Specification MIL A and the like. Examples of steel include high carbon content modified steel such as American Iron and Steel Institute AISI grade 4340 Ni Cr Mo steel or 4130 Cr Mo steel. The steel may also be U.S. Military Specification MIL A or MIL A ballistic armor. Another steel is HY 130 Ni Cr Mn Mo . A suitable titanium armor is titanium alloy Ti 6Al 4V. These ballistic armors are commercially available in thicknesses of 0.25 inches to 6 inches. The thickness of steel plate is 0.25 to 1 inch. A steel plate thickness of 0.25 to 0.40 inches has been found to be effective and practical. For example HY 130 Ni Cr Mn Mo plate has been found to be effective in a thickness of 0.25 inches. A thickness of 0.25 to 0.40 inches of titanium plate has also been found to be effective. Layer is effective in stopping a projectile and shrapnel and in deforming and slowing a penetrator that succeeds in breaching it.

Polymers have been found that are effective against projectiles. These polymers demonstrate high strain rate sensitivity hardening when subjected to high rate loading. They become highly rigid when subjected to high rate loading by a projectile. The transient rigidity is significantly increased when the polymer is confined. This physical response creates a transient very high strength barrier to a penetrator.

High strain rate sensitivity hardening polymers include polyurea polyurethane and mixtures of polyurea and polyurethane. The thickness of high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer is 0.1 to 1 inch preferably about 0.75 inches.

Generally high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymers useful for the invention demonstrate a Young s modulus of 1000 psi to 4000 psi when tested at slow strain rates. At high strain rates in the range of 1 000 second to 100 000 second the confined polymer demonstrates a Young s modulus of 350 000 psi to 500 000 psi or greater. When confined the tensile strength increases from about 2 000 8000 psi to about 80 000 psi. By way of example polyurea usefully for the invention is sold commercially under trade names including Carboline POLYCLAM 707 Air Products VERSALINK 1000 and SPI POLYSHIELD Hi E.

A penetrator breaching strike surface layer and impacts polymer at high velocity producing high strain rate loading in the range of up to 1 000 000 seconds. Polymer is confined between high strength strike surface layer and second high strength layer . As a result a substantial transient increase in strength and stiffness of polymer is initiated on impact by the penetrator. This provides high resistance to the transit of the projectile through polymer . The result is a reduction in the velocity and hence the kinetic energy of the penetrator as it traverses the bulk volume of the polymer.

High strain rate sensitivity hardening polymers are more fully discussed in inventor s U.S. Pat. No. 7 300 893 for Armor Including A Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer incorporated herein by reference.

Penetrator exits polymer and strikes second high strength layer . Second high strength layer does not receive the initial blast or the initial impact of penetrator . This allows for the second high strength layer to be made of a material having less strength than that of the high strength strike surface layer.

The second high strength layer may be an armor of lower grade than the high strength surface layer . That is besides steel second high strength layer may be an aluminum armor. Aluminum armors include annealed aluminum as well as aluminum alloy having aluminum as a major component with effective alloying amounts of magnesium and manganese.

The thickness of the second high strength layer is preferably about 0.25 to 1.25 inches for steel and preferably about 0.7 to 1.25 inches for aluminum.

The aluminum armor alloys which are most widely accepted for use are alloy 5083 meeting the requirements of U.S. Military Specification MIL A46027F MR and alloy 7039 meeting the requirements of U.S. Military Specification MIL A46063E. These alloy designations herein are in accordance with alloy numbers and corresponding definitions registered by the Aluminum Association Washington D.C.

U.S. Military Specifications have been developed for ballistic performance in terms of the speeds of two types of projectiles. One projectile is an armor piercing AP .30 caliber projectile characterized by a pointed leading end. The other projectile is a fragment simulating FS 20 mm projectile characterized by a blunt leading end. The blunt end projectile creates spall from the inner side of an armor plate even when the projectile fails to penetrate the plate. Armor plate of alloy 7039 is superior to armor plate of alloy 5083 for armor piercing AP ballistic performance but less so for FS ballistic performance.

Outer composite is assembled by joining high strength surface layer high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer and second high strength layer . Joining is accomplished by constructing a mold. Layer and layer are positioned in a frame leaving a space of 0.1 to 1 inches between them to fill with polymer . The space may be sealed by taping the sides and bottom of the mold with foam tape of sufficient width to prevent liquid polymer from flowing out. If the panel is to be used to shield a windshield or window care should be taken to align the two layer surfaces parallel for visual clarity. Fluid polymer is poured or infused into the space left in the mold and then cured. Curing is generally accomplished by holding the materials undisturbed in the frame for about 24 to 72 hours at room temperature. Curing at elevated temperature in an autoclave can be carried out to reduce curing time. This solidifies the polymer without leaving any voids or bubbles and adheres the polymer to both layer and surfaces. As a result the polymer is functionally confined between layer and layer and exhibits the required physical properties of a confined polymer.

The outer composite assembled to protect windshields and windows uses visually transparent components. In visually transparent outer composite corresponds with outer composite shown in . Penetrator strikes outer surface of outer composite . Outer composite comprises in sequence high strength strike surface layer high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer second high strength layer bounded by back surface . Outer composite is assembled to be visually transparent to resist blast to defeat a conventional kinetic energy projectile and to slow and deform a high velocity projectile.

High strength strike surface layer comprises silica glass. The silica glass may be any of the commercially available flat plates. Typically commercially available silica glass plates are made of soda lime silica glass. Borosilicate glass is also commercially available. Depending on the method of forming and heat treating the glass plate is referred to as plate glass float glass tempered glass or annealed glass. As used herein the term silica glass is intended to refer to all of these glass plates. Silica glass is commercially available in thickness of 0.25 inches and greater. Military silica glass is commercially available in thicknesses up to about 2 inches. It is preferred that the thickness not exceed 1 inch preferably a thickness of 0.5 inches to 1 inch for example 0.75 inches.

In outer composite the second high strength layer is silica glass or acrylic glass. Acrylic glass is the term given to the polymer poly methyl methacrylate also referred to as methyl methacrylate resin or PMMA formed into sheets similar to sheets of silica glass. Acrylic glass is commercially available under the trade names PLEXIGLAS and PERSPEX among others. Acrylic glass layer has a thickness of 1 inch to 4 inches preferably about 2 inches thick.

Outer composite is assembled according to the above described procedure of outer composite . The thickness of high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer is 0.1 to 1.0 inches.

An alternate visually transparent outer composite is shown in . Penetrator strikes outer surface of outer composite . Outer composite comprises in sequence two layers of high strength layer two lamellae of high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer and second high strength layer bounded by back surface

Both layers of high strength layer comprise silica glass. It is preferred that the thickness not exceed 1 inch preferably 0.5 inches to 1.0 inches. Second high strength layer is acrylic glass. Acrylic glass layer has a thickness of 1 inch to 4 inches preferably 2 inches. In this alternative there are up to three glass layers and up to three lamellae of high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer layer . The thickness of high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer may be 0.2 to 0.5 inches. In this alternative with two to three layers of polymer a thickness for each of about 0.2 inches is effective.

Outer composite or and inner composite are separated by first air gap . First air gap is a medial space between the two composites to allow time for the deformation and deflection caused to projectile in the outer composite to more fully develop. That is high strength strike surface layer and high strength layer deform the shape cause erosion cause yaw and reduce the velocity of penetrator . First air gap facilitates yaw and deflection of the penetrator so that penetrator fragments emerging from back surface strike surface of inner composite layer with more yaw and at a more oblique and hence less effective attack angle than the initial attack angle of the approaching penetrator on outer composite layer . At the same time the cone of shattered glass fragments ahead of the penetrator spreads laterally in first air gap forming a greater impact diameter on surface .

The purpose of the space provided by first air gap is not as a protective armor barrier but rather to maintain a spaced relationship between the first composite and second composite. The width W of first air gap is selected for practical considerations to allow yaw and deflection to more fully develop without adding weight to the panel. A width W of 0 to 8 inches preferably 2 to 8 inches is effective and 3 to 6 inches is more preferred. The inclusion of first air gap is preferred because it is effective. However if space limitations do not allow for a panel of greater thickness it is more effective and therefore preferred to eliminate first air gap rather than the same thickness of glass or confined polymer.

Width W of first air gap may be maintained with fasteners brackets spacers or the like. For example each of the outer composite and the inner composite may be mounted on frames and the frames mounted in boxes on a vehicle. One set of brackets holds the inner composite in place in the box. A second set of brackets holds the outer composite in place in the box. The brackets are spaced from each other to provide an air space width W between the inner composite and the outer composite of 0 to 8 inches preferably 2 to 8 inches more preferably 3 to 6 inches. In another example width W may be maintained with spacers such as a Kraft paper honeycomb or aircraft aluminum honeycomb. The choice of fasteners is known in the art. The fasteners should be selected to facilitate replacement of a damaged inner composite and outer composite .

The remains of penetrator including fragments passing through first air gap strike outer surface of inner composite . Inner composite comprises in sequence 1 to 8 silica glass layers followed by an acrylic glass layer and optionally by a polycarbonate layer . In this drawing 1 to 8 silica glass layers are represented as 2 layers . The silica glass layers and the acrylic glass layer have spaces between them. Inner composite is assembled to defeat any remains of penetrator that have traversed outer composite and have sufficient kinetic energy remaining to penetrate facing surface of inner composite .

The silica glass layers of the inner composite are made of the same silica glass material as in inner composite . That is silica glass layers may be any commercially available thickness of silica glass i.e. plate glass float glass tempered glass or annealed glass. It is preferred that the silica glass not exceed 1 inch in thickness preferably be 0.5 inches to 0.75 inches in thickness based on cost.

Spaces are about 0.1 inches to 0.3 inches wide. Spaces are preferably filled with air. In the alternative spaces may be filled with the high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer applied in outer composite . Space is also provided between the last silica glass layer in the series and the acrylic glass layer .

The number of silica glass layers and polymer layers may number from 1 to 8 preferably 3 to 7. The number of silica glass layers selected is based on the projectile the panel is intended to defeat.

The mechanism by which silica glass with interspaces defeats a projectile in inner composite is different than the mechanism in the outer composite . Silica glass is hard and brittle. On impact silica glass fractures differently than the metal armor of outer composite. Silica glass fracture begins with both a projectile diameter hole on the impact side of the silica glass and fracture of glass ahead of the projectile within the body of the glass layer out to the exit surface. A conical plug of silica glass is pushed out of the body of the glass layer producing an exit hole larger than the entry hole. The conical plug of shattered glass fragments pushed by the projectile proceeds out of the body of the glass layer to the following space where the glass fragments spread obliquely increasing the effective projectile diameter. Pushed by the projectile glass fragments impact the next silica glass layer and repeat the process forming a larger diameter body of glass fragments pushed by the projectile. The increasing mass of glass fragments wastes kinetic energy by breaking hard silica glass layers with an increasing diameter and pushing the spreading mass of fragments forward. The spaces between the silica glass layers facilitate the lateral spreading of glass fragments increasing the impact area on the following glass layer and wasting more kinetic energy. At the same time the hardness of the silica glass further deforms and erodes the projectile increasing yaw and altering the angle of attack on the following glass surface. The acrylic glass layer is impacted by the body of glass fragments pushed forward by the increasingly deformed projectile. One mechanism by which a penetrator is slowed in acrylic glass by the fragments that are created is referred to as momentum trapping. These fragments carry off kinetic energy when they break away from the armor.

Acrylic glass layer follows silica glass layers . The acrylic glass layer receives projectile fragments at a reduced angle of attack proceeded by a mass of glass fragments distributed over an area much greater than the initial cross sectional area of penetrator . Acrylic glass has good impact resistance and penetration resistance. In addition acrylic glass is highly rate sensitive. That is its modulus and strength increase to retard the penetrator and glass fragment spall. However on reaching high modulus and strength acrylic glass becomes brittle resulting in additional fragments which slow the projectile. The thickness of the acrylic glass is 3 to 10 inches.

In the case of the acrylic glass it is preferred that the acrylic glass comprise at least 25 volume of the inner composite to enhance resistance to the glass fragments and the projectile and for momentum trapping. The thickness of acrylic glass chosen above 25 volume is selected to defeat a specified projectile threat.

This mechanism is distinguished from that of bullet resistant silica glasses such as silica glass polyurethane silica glass polycarbonate and silica glass acrylic laminates which are known for visual and safety properties.

Inner composite may be backed with polycarbonate layer . Polycarbonate is a projectile resisting material with good shock receiving characteristics. In thin sheets polycarbonate stretches on impact making it a good spall liner for inner composite . In this capacity it prevents traverse of glass fragments and projectile fragments through it. Also it does not spall as silica glass and acrylic glass do. In general the polycarbonate material has a thickness of 0.1 to 0.5 inches preferably 0.1 to 0.3 inches. It has been found that besides the projectile resisting characteristics of the material it also provides a stiff backing for the composite and may be desirable to make the composite package easier to mount. By way of example LEXAN is the trade name of an optically clear polycarbonate sold by SABIC Innovative Plastics.

Outer composite and inner composite are assembled by mounting the layers in a frame or in gaskets. An example is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 3 917 891 for a Fragmentation Shield For Impact Resisting Optical Medium by W. C. Cook et al. incorporated herein by reference.

The thicknesses of the layers in the outer composite and in the inner composite are selected to defeat a specified projectile threat. Particularly in the inner composite the number of silica glass layers and the thickness of the acrylic glass layer are chosen with a specific threat projectile in mind. However there are design parameters based on vehicle size and consideration for maneuvering the vehicle. In general outer composite is assembled to have a thickness of 2 inches to 3.5 inches. First air gap has a thickness W of 3 inches to 8 inches. Inner composite has a thickness of 6 inches to 15 inches. Particularly in use for shielding the windshield the first air gap may be eliminated if space does not allow for it or if greater optical clarity is required.

Using these guidelines a windshield shielding assembly of outer composite air gap and inner composite has a thickness of 11 inches to 26.5 inches. The limits of 11 inches to 26.5 inches are the practical space and optical clarity limits for use to shield glass in a military vehicle. A windshield shielding panel side window shielding panels and a back window shielding panel are mounted on a vehicle in front of existing glass with mounting brackets such as those used to mount body armor.

When used as vehicle body armor the armor panel is mounted on the vehicle and given a second air gap having a width W of about 2 inches between the back surface of the panel and the vehicle surface . Using these guidelines an armor panel protrudes 11 inches to 28.5 inches from vehicle surface . For maneuvering purposes a pair of panels increases the width of the vehicle by 22 inches to 57 inches.

For vehicle body armor surface of inner composite may be adhered directly to surface of base vehicle armor . In this alternative vehicle body armor is mounted on a base vehicle armor so that the effective width of the vehicle is not increased as much. Vehicle body armor is mounted on the vehicle with removable brackets. The armor and brackets are placed inside the vehicle during shipping. The vehicle is loaded on a transport ship under its own power driven down ramps and around corners to the ship s hold below deck. Aboard ship space is at a premium. In the hold vehicles are parked as close possible to one another based on the skill of the loading officer vehicle drivers and criticality of space. The vehicle is driven off the transport ship at its destination and then driven into the field. The brackets are then attached to the vehicle and the panels mounted on the brackets. In another alternative the panels may be mounted in boxes on the vehicle

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

