---

title: Displaying caller information on wireless local network connected device
abstract: A method, a computer program, a computer program product and a user equipment () comprising a contacts database () and being connected to a telecommunications network () and to a displaying device () over a wireless local network (). The method comprises the steps of: wirelessly receiving incoming caller information via the telecommunications network, determining based on the caller information, if there is additional information in the contacts database associated with the caller, determining if the local network is the same as a predefined network, and if the local network is the same as the predefined network perform the steps of: creating a message () comprising some of the received caller information and at least some of the additional information, sending the message to the displaying device to enable the displaying device to show the additional information comprised in the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798600&OS=08798600&RS=08798600
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericson (publ)
number: 08798600
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20080215
---
The present invention relates to a method a user equipment a computer program and a computer program product for enabling caller information to be displayed on a displaying device.

Caller ID Caller Identification or CNID calling number identification is a telephone service that transmits the caller s number to the called party s telephone equipment before the call is answered. Where available caller ID can also provide a name associated with the calling telephone number. Consumers can today also buy equipment or subscribe to enhanced Caller ID services that show the caller ID on a TV Television screen at home when a telephone connected to a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network receives a call provided that a Caller ID service is enabled by a local phone company.

A network architecture called IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem has been developed by the 3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project as a platform for handling and controlling multimedia services and sessions commonly referred to as the IMS network. Thus an IMS network can be deployed to initiate and control multimedia sessions for IMS enabled terminals connected to various access networks regardless of the access technology used. WO 2007 098155 A2 discloses an IMS system interacting with an IPTV system. The disclosed systems enable Caller ID for a caller to an IMS enabled mobile phone to be displayed on an IPTV. The caller ID is centrally stored in an HSS Home subscriber Server as is known in the art and the service is enabled by a specialized service broker function in the IMS network.

Although IMS certainly facilitate new functions and services such as showing Caller ID on a TV screen it requires new nodes and functionality to be installed in an operator s network and at the moment there are very few persons that have access to IMS enabled services e.g. since there currently are few IMS enabled consumer equipments available on the market for ordinary consumers.

Another object of the invention is to provide a cheap and user friendly way of displaying caller ID on a TV screen.

The invention relates to a method for a UE user equipment e.g. a mobile communication device which comprises a contacts database and is connected to a telecommunications network e.g. a UMTS network and to at least one displaying device over a wireless local network. The method comprises the steps of 

The wireless local network shall here be interpreted to include any limited local wireless network or private network such as a residential office or vehicle network also referred to as e.g. WLAN Wireless Local Area Network or WPAN Wireless Personal Area Network .

Hereby is achieved that in addition to the ordinary caller ID additional caller information from the contacts database in the UE easily can be displayed on e.g. a TV screen if the TV is adapted to communicate over the local wireless network and the UE is adapted to communicate over both a telecommunications network and a wireless local network. Moreover more information may be displayed than a caller s name and the caller s telephone number without having a centralized end user database for storing additional caller information.

The method may comprise the step of sending the message as an image file e.g. a Joint Photographic Experts Group file to the displaying device. Hereby is achieved that the message is sent in a widely accepted file format e.g. in DLNA Digital Living Network Alliance .

The image file may comprise a picture which is associated with the caller and is stored in the UE. Hereby enhanced and enriched display of caller information is enabled in an easy way.

In one embodiment the method comprises the step of sending the additional information to the displaying device partly comprised in a text message and partly comprised in an image file. Hereby is enabled that caller information suitable to be displayed as text may be sent as text and caller information suitable to be sent as an image may be sent as an image.

In one embodiment the method comprises the step of discovering the displaying device by sending a Hypertext Transfer Protocol Get request in a discovery message. Hereby is achieved that the discovering is adapted for e.g. UPnP Universal Plug and Play and DLNA.

The message may in one embodiment of the method be sent directly from the user equipment to the displaying device. Alternatively in one embodiment the message is sent to the displaying device via a bridging device comprised in the wireless local network. Hereby is achieved that a message may be sent via one wireless interface e.g. IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.15 of the UE translated in the bridging unit into another wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.11 standard and then forwarded to the displaying device via IEEE 802.11.

The method may comprise the step of enabling a user of the user equipment to manually define in the user equipment the predefined local network before the incoming caller information is received. Hereby is achieved that the user decides in which local networks the caller information shall be displayed on displaying devices.

The method also relates to a computer program for the user equipment e.g. a mobile communication device which comprises a contacts database and is connected to a telecommunications network e.g. a UMTS network and to at least one displaying device over a wireless local network. The computer program comprises code means which when run on the user equipment causes the user equipment to 

The message may be created as an image file e.g. a Joint Photographic Experts Group file comprising if available a stored picture associated with the caller in the user equipment.

Furthermore the invention relates to a computer program product comprising the computer program and a computer readable medium on which the computer program is stored. The computer program product may be a flash memory or an EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory .

determining means to determine if the local network is the same as a predefined network when incoming caller information e.g. a telephone number associated with the caller is received wirelessly via the telecommunications network and to determine based on the incoming caller information if there is additional information in the contacts database associated with the caller information message creation means for creating a message comprising at least some of the received caller information and if available in the contacts database at least some of the additional information and communications means for sending the message over the wireless local network via the communications interface to the displaying device to enable the displaying device to show at least a part of the additional information comprised in the message.

In one embodiment the determining means the message creation means and the communication means are implemented as the computer program that causes the UE to perform the steps of the embodiments of the method.

The user equipment may be adapted for communication with the displaying device according to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.11 standard IEEE 802.15 standard or IEEE 802.16 standard.

The user equipment may be adapted for communication with the displaying device via Hypertext Transfer protocol messages.

The message creation means may be adapted to create the message as an image file e.g. a Joint Photographic Experts Group file comprising if available a stored picture associated with the caller in the user equipment.

While the invention covers various modifications and alternative constructions embodiments of the invention are shown in the drawings and will hereinafter be described in detail. However it is to be understood that the specific description and drawings are not intended to limit the invention to the specific forms disclosed. On the contrary it is intended that the scope of the claimed invention includes all modifications and alternative constructions thereof falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

In a third step D the presence service is activated. Presence service shall here be understood as a service that automatically is performed when the UE is connected to a certain wireless local network and can be termed as e.g. an at home service an at work service and in vehicle service . The presence service application in the UE may in one embodiment comprise code means for a GUI for letting the user activate or deactivate the presence service and associate the presence service to at least one of the predefined WLAN s in this example including the HWLAN saved in the second step D. Furthermore the GUI may in some embodiments let the user define and store other criteria and features for the presence service as will be more readily understood and explained in the description further down.

Having described embodiments of how the HWLAN may be set and a presence service according to the invention may be activated embodiments of the presence service itself will be described in more detail in conjunction with .

In a first step S in the UE is connected to a wireless local network within reach of the communication interface in any of the ways known to a person skilled in the art and is therefore not described more in detail as this is as such known.

In a second step S the UE discovers at least one displaying device such as the TV and other video displays in the WLAN. In one embodiment this is achieved with a DLNA UPnP discovery and description method. UPnP is an architecture developed in a multi vendor collaboration called the UPnP Forum for establishing standardised device protocols for the communication between different IP devices in a local network using different access technologies operating systems programming languages format standards and communication protocols. UPnP further provides standardised methods to describe and exchange device profiles that may include capabilities requirements and available services in the devices. UPnP and other protocols support a process called discovery or pairing in which a device can join a local network obtain a local IP address announce its name and IP address and exchange capabilities and services with other devices within the local network. DLNA is a collaboration between companies to create design guidelines for products so that they can work together in a standardized way e.g. for storing and accessing digital media content from devices in a local network such as a LAN or PAN. The UPnP protocol is utilised by DLNA as an underlying protocol for communication between devices within local networks.

Using DLNA UPnP terminology the UE acts as a UPnP control point and a DMS Digital Meida Server and uses UPnP messages to discover what devices that are in reach i.e. on the same WLAN. This can typically be done by multicasting data about the UE to the other devices or sending a request to the other devices about their capabilities. This is achieved e.g. using SSDP UPnP Discovery Protocol . Discovered devices may be e.g. DMS Digital Media Servers in the form of e.g. PCs Personal Computers and NAS Network Attached Storage to store content and make the content available to DMPs Digital Media Players . The displaying devices are in this embodiment known to a person skilled in the art as DMRs Digital Media Renderers which also are discovered in this step. The discovering process using UPnP is as such known to a person skilled in the art and therefore not described more in detail.

In another embodiment of the second step S discovery of the displaying device is conducted within a PAN using Bluetooth communication instead of any of the IEEE 802.11 standards. A proper way to do this is also known to a person skilled in the art since Bluetooth pairing also is specified by DLNA and Bluetooth Special Interest Group and is implemented in consumer equipment for sale.

In a third embodiment of the second step S discovery of the displaying device is made by a Zero Configuration Networking solution known to a person skilled in the art e.g. a solution which uses multicast DNS Domain Name System and DNS Service Discovery.

In a fourth embodiment of the second step S discovery of the displaying device is conducted within a wireless local network according to any of the IEEE 802.16 standards.

Other embodiments of the second step S are also conceivable such as using a discover process according to an Infrared technology standard or using an optional camera in the UE to photograph a QR Quick Response code for the displaying device and with reader software in the UE make the UE discover the displaying device . However in the latter case an IP Internet Protocol address has to be included in the QR code.

In a third step S the UE receives an incoming call comprising caller information including at least the telephone number of the caller. The call signals may be sent according to e.g. an UTMS or GSM standard.

In a fourth step S the presence service application causes the UE to determine if the WLAN ID e.g. the BSSID is the same as any of the predefined WLAN IDs stored in the UE e.g. the HWLAN. If the WLAN ID is not the same as any of the predefined WLAN IDs no further actions are taken. If the WLAN ID is the same as any one of the predefined WLAN IDs in this example the ID of the HWLAN a fifth step S is started.

In the fifth step S the presence service application causes the UE to look up the contacts database to determine if there is some more information about the caller other than information associated with the caller that could be derived directly from incoming signals from the telecommunications network . Such additional information may e.g. be any of the above mentioned information in the contacts database . An API Application Programming Interface which e.g. uses LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol may be used by the presence service application to communicate with and retrieve information from the contacts database .

In a sixth step S the presence service application determine if there is any displaying device connected to the HWLAN. In the case of DLNA UPnP utilization the presence server application can determine from a device list if there is a DMR connected to the HWLAN and the capability of the DMR. A UPnP device description is pre written by the device vendor and is typically expressed in XML syntax and based on a standard UPnP Device Template produced by the UPnP Forum working committee. To retrieve a UPnP device description of the displaying device the UE may issue an HTTP GET request on the URL in a discovery message and the displaying device returns the device description. Retrieving a UPnP service description is a similar process that uses a URL within the device description.

In an optional seventh step S which could be utilized in some embodiments it is determined if at least one predetermined criterion in addition to the one in the fourth step S is fulfilled in order to continue to an eight step S. The predetermined criterion in the seventh step S may be whether or not a predefined displaying device or device model is present in the HWLAN. Hereby is achieved that a user in advance can pinpoint predetermine specific displaying devices even different displaying devices for the different predetermined WLAN s that shall receive caller information from the UE so that not all displaying devices in the HWLAN have to show the caller information. Another criterion of the seventh step S may be to check whether or not the time is within a predefined time interval. Hereby is achieved that caller information may be shown on displaying devices in the HWLAN only during e.g. office hours within a predefined number of hours from the activation of the presence service application or only at specific days such as working days. Yet another criterion of the seventh step S may be to determine if the caller is a predetermined caller for which the presence service shall provide the caller information on the displaying device . Hereby is achieved that the user of the presence server can differentiate between different persons and situations regarding the expected importance of quickly getting in contact with the caller.

In the eighth step S at least one message comprising caller information to the displaying device is created by the UE through the presence service application. The message comprises in one embodiment all available caller information received from the contacts database as well as the caller ID received by the UE from the telecommunications network. Hence if no extra information associated with the caller has been found in the contacts database the message only contains the information received from the caller. In another embodiment the message in addition to the information received from the caller only comprises extra caller information if existing from a limited number of fields in a record associated with the caller in the contacts database . The determination of fields to be included in the message is in one embodiment determined by the user of the UE via a GUI presented in the display by the presence service application.

The message is in one embodiment prepared and sent as a text message e.g. where only caller information that typically is presented as text is retrieved from the contacts database . The message is in another embodiment prepared as a picture e.g. a JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group TIFF Tagged Image File Format GIF Graphics Interchange File Format and PNG Portable Network Graphics image including text and suitably also a picture of the caller if present in the contacts database . In yet another embodiment one text message and a picture message is prepared the picture message being essentially only the picture of the caller in the contacts database and the text message comprising all the other caller information determined to be sent to the displaying device . Messages prepared in the eighth step S shall of course be displayable by the displaying device and as implicitly stated above the UE already in the second step S has received the message types formats that can be displayed by the displaying device . In still another embodiment the message is prepared as a video stream e.g. in the video formats MPEG 2 Moving Picture Experts Group 2 MPEG 4 MPEG 4 AVC MPEG 4 Advanced Video Coding VC 1 H.263 and MPEG 4 part . Furthermore any image text and video message according to the eighth step S may be created in conjunction with an audio message e.g. in the MP3 and AMR Adaptive Multi Rate format.

In a ninth step S the UE transmit streams the message image video and or the audio message to the displaying device . This can be done using any standard messaging technique such as standard HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol messages used e.g. by DLNA or any HTTP extension for notification according to CEA 2014. In the case where the displaying device is adapted for communication via SIP Session Initiation Protocol the message could be sent as a SIP MESSAGE provided that the message is a text message.

In a tenth step S the displaying device receives the message and displays the caller information. There are several ways to display the caller information known to a person skilled in the art such as displaying all the received caller information on only a small part of a display of the displaying device . Another way is to only show a small icon indicating only the incoming call or only a part of the caller information and requiring the user to push a button on a remote control to see all the received caller information. In the case of e.g. a DLNA certified displaying device no adaptation of the displaying device is required as such for receiving the message since a message should not be sent to the displaying device if the UE does not already know that the displaying device is capable of receiving and displaying the content of the message .

Although several different embodiments of the steps S S are disclosed in conjunction with in subsequent order it must be understood that these individual steps may in other embodiments be performed in numerous other orders. The sixth step S may for example be performed directly after the actions of any one of the second to fifth step S S or after the actions of the eighth or ninth step S and S respectively. The checking and determination of the seventh step S may for example be performed before the fifth step S. The fourth step S may of course also be performed before the third step S and or the second step S.

Also even though the wireless transmission of caller information from the UE to the displaying device is performed directly between them there are use cases and combinations of UEs and displaying devices wherein direct communication between the UE and the displaying device is not preferred or appropriate. Such examples are when the UE lacks sufficient processing power or encoders for different image and video formats or when the UE and displaying device differ in their network connectivity. For these cases some embodiments of the invention comprise a bridging unit see in the HWLAN for bridging between different link layer bearers as well as content transformation. Using the example of a DLNA terminology such a bridging unit is within the device class MIU Media Interoperability Unit and or M NCF Mobile Network Connectivity Function .

