---

title: Systems and methods for dynamic conversion of web content to an interactive walled garden program
abstract: Systems and methods to dynamically convert Web content to an interactive program for display on resource constrained television clients are described. In particular, a head-end server in a digital television entertainment system downloads the Web content from an external data source. The head-end server dynamically transcodes the downloaded content into an interactive walled garden program (iWGP) that includes MPEG stills and metadata for delivery to a client in the television entertainment system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08225367&OS=08225367&RS=08225367
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08225367
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080131
---
This non provisional U.S. patent application is a divisional of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 262 325 filed on Sep. 30 2002 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The following arrangements and procedures relate to generation and delivery of content to clients in a digital network.

Existing techniques to broadcast originally Web based content to viewers in a television entertainment network are substantially limited in that they typically require WWW content providers to engage in substantial efforts to convert the originally Web based content into a data format that is compatible with one or more particular cable broadcast servers clients and or transport implementations. This means that the WWW content providers must not only design Web based content for proper display within constraints of various implementations of television appliances but must also utilize various tools and pre existing knowledge to generate content that may be compatible with a particular head end s specific server and or transport implementations so that a respective head end can broadcast the content to viewers. Such design and transformation activities are generally labor intensive and time consuming. Note these design and transformation activities must be performed by the WWW content provider prior to transferring any information i.e. Web content that has been converted by WWW content providers into a different data format for broadcast to subscribers to a cable head end for subsequent distribution to viewers.

The following systems and methods address these and other limitations of conventional systems and techniques to create content for delivery to networked clients.

Systems and methods to dynamically convert Web content to an interactive program for display on digital television network clients are described. In particular a cable head end server in a digital television entertainment system downloads Web content from an external data source e.g. a Web server serving walled garden content in HTML data format . The head end server dynamically transcodes the downloaded source content into an interactive walled garden program iWGP . The iWGP includes MPEG stills and metadata for delivery to a client in the television entertainment system. The metadata describes an interaction model corresponding for the MPEG stills.

The Information Service IS architecture described below supports many types of ITV services such as WWW walled garden applications Electronic Program Guide EPG services VOD navigator applications and so on. A basic feature of the described IS architecture is the ability for a cable head end to download walled garden Web source content for dynamic transcoding into an interactive walled garden program iWGP . The iWGP does not require a Web browser for presentation by a receiving client. The program is interactive because along a stream of MPEG still images or image pages the program includes corresponding metadata that provides an interaction model for a user to navigate the MPEG still images from the client.

For instance conveyed metadata describes links i.e. a URL to other image page content links to one or more applications hosted by the client and or focus areas to access a limited set of side effects and actions. A cable user subscriber can select and activate links focus areas corresponding to an image page with an input device such as a hand held remote control thereby interacting with pages of information displayed by the thin client onto a display screen.

Since Web source content transcoded by the cable head end into an iWGP can be presented and navigated by users of digital television clients the client does not require a Web browser to view information that corresponds to the Web content. In this manner client processing and or data storage resource dependencies that would otherwise be needed to view Web content with a Web source content browser are essentially unnecessary.

Source content represents walled garden Web content such as that formatted in Hypertext Markup Language HTML . For purposes of this discussion source content further includes dynamic HTML DHTML content. DHTML as is known may include combinations of Java applets JSCripts and JavaScript Flash animation marquees META tag refreshes and so on.

Source content is authored using standard and well known HTML creation tools such as provided in an HTML ready authoring program. The number of fonts and languages that may be represented by source content is virtually unlimited. Head end downloads and transcodes the source content into an iWGP that conforms to represented font s and language s as a function of the particular font and or language packs that are installed at the particular head end .

Source content may be authored to reference a limited or closed set of resources such as those presented via a walled garden Web site. For instance although the walled garden may reference source content deployed by more than a single Web site e.g. content may reference a weather service web site a sports service web site a news headlines web site etc. walled garden content does not reference resources that are outside of the walled garden. This constrains user navigation to predetermined boundaries providing transitive closure that is in contrast to an open set of resources wherein there is no such closure. Source content may also reference content that does not provide such transitive closure for example by referencing a co hosted application on the target set top box . This is accomplished via an embedded intrinsic event handler. These and other aspects of authored Source content are described in greater detail below.

Head end dynamically converts downloaded source content representing a single walled garden Web site into a single iWGP for substantially optimized broadcast delivery as program data onto coaxial cable transmission medium . The transmitted signals are received at one or multiple subscriber locations N . At least one of the subscriber locations such as the location includes a digital set top box or the like equipped to convert the transmitted signals into signals capable of being received by a standard e.g. NTSC television set for displaying video images and or outputting audio to a subscriber user.

Set top boxes can be implemented in a number of different ways. For example set top box receives broadcast content from a satellite based transmitter via satellite dish . Set top box is coupled to the television for presenting content e.g. audio data and video data received by the set top box as well as a graphical user interface. Set top box is coupled to receive broadcast content from a broadcast network represented herein as coaxial cable and provide the received content to associated television . Set top box N is an example of a combination television N and integrated set top box . In this example the various components and functionality of the set top box are incorporated into the television rather than using two separate devices. The set top box incorporated into the television may receive broadcast signals via a satellite dish similar to satellite dish via coaxial cable and or terrestrial digital .

Each set top box is coupled to any number of televisions and or similar devices that are implemented to display or otherwise render content. Similarly any number of set top boxes can be coupled to a television .

Although system represents a broadcast network with coaxial cable as the physical transmission medium the head end can alternatively broadcast signals to client devices e.g. set top boxes over different transmission media. For instance the head end can alternatively broadcast signals to client devices via wireless means such as so called wireless cable broadcasts digital satellite communication etc.

As shown in more detail in head end contains head end local area network LAN including an access control server for controlling the operation of the head end over communication path e.g. an Intranet implementing Ethernet to the various components therein.

A satellite integrated receiver encoder receives and encodes digital television programming signals such as originating from microwave broadcasts received via satellite antenna dish . One such receiver encoder outputs twenty seven megabits per second 27 Mb s MPEG2 transport streams modulated onto a forty four megahertz intermediate frequency carrier. In turn the MPEG2 encoded transport streams are received by an intermediate frequency to radio frequency IF RF up converter .

The frequency up converter modulates the MPEG2 encoded transport streams onto six megahertz analog channels and injects the signals onto the broadcast network which in this implementation is illustrated as cable transmission medium . By multiplexing multiple packetized digital signals per six megahertz analog channel hundreds of digital channels may be injected onto a single coaxial medium.

In addition to broadcasting conventional television programming head end and more particularly the source download transcode server downloads and dynamically converts source content representing a walled garden into an iWPG for substantially optimized bandwidth utilization during delivery to set top box es . Server downloads source content from one or more external data sources . The server may rely on Internet intranet and or Virtual Private Network VPN access e.g. via a local provider from within the headend to fetch and receive the source content. Hereinafter the source download transcode server is often referred to as the server download server transcode server iWPG Server and so on each name being representative of the particular functionality that is being discussed at the time. 

The process of converting downloaded source content into an iWPG is called transcoding. Because transcoding is performed at the head end source content author s do not need pre existing knowledge of the data transport infrastructures of a head end or the target clients . This is substantially beneficial because a source content author can create a single instance of source content for distribution to any number of different head ends and clients with out needing such pre existing device implementation knowledge. This means that a single instance of authored source content can be dynamically converted by any number of head ends to iWGP for delivery to any number of clients regardless of whether the respective head ends utilize different respective server client and or digital signal transport infrastructures.

The download server transcoder component is coupled across communication path e.g. Ethernet to local head end LAN . Download transcode server includes processor coupled to memory . The memory includes volatile i.e. random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory. The memory comprises one or more program modules and data . Processor is configured to fetch and execute computer program instructions from program modules applications portion of the memory and further configured to fetch data from data portion of the memory while executing the program modules.

Program modules typically include routines programs objects components and so on for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. In this implementation program modules provide a run time environment i.e. an operating system and perform the following described operations to fetch source content from external data source s and dynamically generate iWGP s from the fetched content for substantially optimized broadcast distribution to subscribers . In particular source content is fetched or downloaded as one or more electronic files from external data source s . For purposes of illustration these electronic source content downloads are represented within server as other data .

Manually or via a scripting file not shown a system or program administrator establishes and deploys infrastructure for use by program module s to a download source content as one or more electronic files b generate corresponding iWGP s from the downloaded source content and c deliver the generated iWGP s to subscribers . Configuration data includes such infrastructure.

Server includes configuration data which specifies at least a home page or root of a resource tree via a Universal Resource Identifier URI indicating a name and address of source content . The URI may further include for example localization parameters such as head end identifier name zip code and so on as provided by a program administrator. Configuration data may include other data such as a periodicity to indicate a frequency for the server to fetch source content from a particular URI targeting information e.g. a media service organization MSO name and headend name etc.

To facilitate server transcoding of fetched source content the configuration data for each URL identifying source content further indicates at least a portion of the following 

Source content is downloaded or fetched by downloading and transcode server as one or more electronic data files . The download transcode server downloads the source content from an external data source identified by a URL according to one or more of the discussed parameters in the configuration data . The download source content is dynamically transcoded upon receipt into iWGP s each of which respectively represents broadcast ready content. In one implementation such transcoding is performed by one or more Microsoft Internet Explorer Active X plug in controls thereby rendering fetched source content into an iWGP .

Each iWGP is a navigable page tree that includes one or more MPEG stills which are the visual portions of a page a metadata component and optional audio component . Each of these aspects is now described.

Each video still generated by transcode server is a single intra encoded MPEG2 picture still wrapped in a packetized elementary stream layer PES per the MPEG specification ISO IEC 13818 2 Video. Each page s video component still is assigned an exclusive Packet Identifier PID per the MPEG specification ISO IEC 13818 1 Systems. Each MPEG video still is capable of being decoded by an MPEG video decoder in the set top box .

The download transcode server generates the MPEG video in compliance with US and European cable system standards using square pixel resolution parameters.

As noted above source content from which iWGP s are generated may be dynamic i.e. dynamic HTML or a DHTML document including any combination of Java applets JSCripts and JavaScript Flash animation marquees META tag refreshes and so on. Although these elements can be used the transcode server does not guarantee that the dynamic aspects of fetched source content will be finished executing or will have executed to any specific point before the server generates a snapshot of the page i.e. a single MPEG still . This is because a single still image effectively freezes the current state of the source content regardless of whether dynamic content is executing. Accordingly to represent dynamic content such as an animation loop within a source page the transcode server captures a series of snapshots of the same source content page thus preserving substantial aspects of the dynamic character of the source content.

Picture quality attributes for an MPEG still are indicated with a meta tag in corresponding metadata . The quality attribute impacts picture quality of a corresponding MPEG still as it is displayed at the client . For instance image pages may be assigned one of three levels of quality including high medium or low. These quality designations are mapped to respective minimum quantization or compression values. The minimum quantization value indicates the degree of compression applied by the download transcode server to MPEG still which is dynamically transcoded from Web content by the server . The degree of quanitization compression affects the page size which has a resultant effect on the average page size in an iWGP . Picture quality attributes specified by an author of source content are parsed during programmatic generation of corresponding iWGP content by the server .

In one implementation an exemplary image quality indications map a HI quality pages to a minimum quantization of two MED quality pages to a minimum quantization of eight and LOW quality pages to a minimum quantization of sixteen.

There is a direct correlation between quality and the number of bits used to encode a still . In general reducing a page s quality reduces its bandwidth requirement. An iWGP can be edited by a system or program administrator or the transcode server i.e. programmatically at the head end to override and or initially assign MPEG content picture quality attributes. For example page quality may be adjusted automatically during transcoding to accommodate any bandwidth constraints configured for the iWGP e.g. as indicated by configuration data . In this implementation all pages within a source content are transcoded assuming default quality unless otherwise specified by a quality attribute.

An iWGP can be edited to add remove image pages corresponding metadata audio and so on. Related to the addition and removal of content from an iWGP is the concept of MPEG still priority. A page image s priority attribute affects acquisition latency of the page image at the client . To reduce acquisition latency multiple instances of a frequently accessed page can be added by the program administrator i.e. manually or automatically via configuration data to the transport carousel system at spaced apart locations. Such page image redundancy reduces the latency for that page by increasing its frequency on the carousel. The priority assigned to a particular still determines the frequency with which the page appears in the carousel . The carousel frequency divides the latency for that page.

At scheduled intervals the download server may iteratively download source content from a particular external data source to synchronize or refresh a corresponding iWGP so that it reflects current or updated content for subsequent broadcast publication. It is possible for the page image to be updated at a frequency equal to the maximum initial latency of the carousel .

Metadata describes structure of a tree i.e. links between iWGP pages and contents of a corresponding MPEG still or page image as well as an interaction model for the page image. The transcode server determines the structure of downloaded source content from the HTML Document Object Model DOM which is indicated by the downloaded source content . In particular the server transcodes the structure of an HTML document by extracting the location and shape of hot spots by searching a page s DOM for anchor tags and client side image maps. This hot spot or interaction model information is stored into the metadata for the document.

The interaction model defined by metadata provides for viewer interface with the digital set top box to selectively display the various page images on the screen of the television set access applications hosted by the set top box and so on. For example a page image typically includes one or more selectable regions hot spots buttons etc. a cursor that a viewer can move to focus on a particular region and select it e.g. using an input device such as a remote control and a set of responses mapped to the selectable regions. One or more of the mapped responses are triggered as a result of viewer selection of one of the selectable regions.

In this example the interaction model of displays an outline of a cursor over the default hotspot e.g. button of the background image of that is has current focus. In this example the default hotspot represents right button control . Through the interaction model the set top box interface may respond to a button select action by invoking linking another interface page by tuning the set top to a specific broadcast feed launch another application and relinquish set top resources in the process e.g. a button select may initiate a VOD session and so on.

As discussed above metadata that define how focus should be drawn on links and form elements are inferred by the transcode server from the source content layout. Focus geometry is specified in a grid that corresponds to the source content capture resolution. In other words even pixel addresses are used in focus specifications. The focus descriptors for each page element are combined with the other metadata for each page element.

Metadata that indicate the name of the HTML source pages associated with each link are inferred from the HTML source . One or more of these source pages may identify a background video component. The metadata defining the focus geometry and link URLs are encoded using standard client side image map tags e.g. . The HREF attribute for entries relating to a form element focus will contain the URL specified by an ACTION attribute in the tag. Appended to that URL is the form query string fragment defined by that form element The HREF attribute for hyperlinks contain the URL from the corresponding anchor or image map.

Hypertext links specified by walled garden source content are transcoded by server to relative links stored in an iWGP s corresponding metadata documents . In one implementation a relative link in one metadata document may specify an absolute path to another metadata document of the same iWGP program. In another implementation the relative link in a particular iWGP metadata document may also reference a different iWGP the relative link indicating a digital service corresponding to the different iWGP and target metadata for the different iWGP. In this implementation the relative link can be used by a digital television entertainment system client to navigate from the particular iWGP to the different iWGP.

The absolute path specified by a relative link corresponds to a location on transport carousel system . For example . represents a relative link to a file on the carousel . Hypertext links specified by walled garden source content that do not exhibit transitive closure i.e. point outside of a walled garden such as to another walled garden or application are transcoded as is in metadata . For example in one implementation a relative link is a Transport Stream TS Universal Resource Identifier Locator URL . A TS URL is a resource referencing mechanism through which an iWGP hosted by a client device can access virtually any type of resource that is accessible via a digital or analog tuner. Such resources include software and or hardware resources.

As noted above an intrinsic event handler may be embedded into the DOM of source content . An intrinsic event handler specifies one or more specific functions exposed APIs to invoke with respect to applications co hosted on a target set top box . For example an intrinsic event handler may be used to invoke a VOD session from an iWGP and initiate the play back of a specific VOD title. Specific syntax for a script portion of an intrinsic event handler corresponds to an exposed API of the co hosted application an example is .

By way of further examples a a VOD session launch is made responsive to a subscriber click on an anchor tag corresponding to metadata b a force tune to a broadcast channel from an MPEG still can be made when an anchor corresponding to metadata is selected by a user ts is a locator for a particular transport stream and TSI represents an index to resource and channel c responsive to loading a Body tag or on Frameset tag such as when a ticker application is launched from an MPEG still as the still is loaded with the following syntax 

Although metadata may be represented in any of a number of different data formats this implementation generates metadata in a Scalable Vector Graphics SVG data format The SVG data format is a vector graphics language written in Extensible Markup Language XML . SVG metadata for the example of is based for example on the following structure and content 

The page ID substantially uniquely identifies the page generated by the source download transcode server . Within each page are one or more hotspot sections that encapsulate a respective link ID. Link IDs collectively identify each of the links in the page.

When metadata is loaded for presentation of still s of an iWGP the following is an exemplary sequence of events performed by a client . The background MPEG video still is presented on the video plane. The audio track is decoded and presented by the hardware audio decoder. An element of metadata is the default hotspot that is in focus when the metadata document is loaded. The default hotpot is outlined with a cursor drawn on the OSD on the video plane. When the user presses remote control buttons for left . right up or down the outline of the cursor is drawn at a new position on the OSD overlaying the image of the hotspot that is now in focus the tab order of the selection is determined by the explicit tab attributes specified for each hotspot.

After server has downloaded and converted source content into one or multiple iWGP s the server delivers program s to carousel system for subsequent injection over broadcast network to subscriber s . Carousel system produces a real time carousel data stream for modulation onto a six or eight megahertz channel of transmission medium .

In this implementation the carousel of iWGP s are delivered to a client set top box as a standard MPEG2 transport stream which is broadcast in band over some number of MHz carrier. Each iWGP is mapped to a digital service in a transport stream. The carousel system is a broadcast multiplexer that multiplexes iWGP s over a single transport stream.

In one implementation the in band data modulator up converter accepts 27 Mb s transport streams from carousel and encodes and modulates those signals to a 238 MHz intermediate frequency. The up converter component converts the 212 MHz intermediate signal to an RF signal and injects the RF signal into the cable system s transmission medium . In this manner the 27 Mb s MPEG2 transport streams containing iWGP s generated by server are modulated onto a six megahertz analog channel for reception by subscribers.

In another implementation MPEG stills are broadcast over the in band channel and metadata are delivered over an out of band channel. For instance the stills are delivered to the set top box over an in band channel as one or more electronic files whereas corresponding metadata is delivered to the set top box via an out of band channel as one or more electronic files . This alternate implementation takes advantage of a second tuner on the client to cache metadata and thereby substantially reduce user navigation latency. To this end carousel system is coupled to an out of band data multiplexer up converter . The out of band data multiplexer up converter may also be used to communicate other information service related data to the cable network.

Although shows only one source download transcode server in head end two or more such servers may be installed in a head end for purposes of increased reliability based on redundancy. Moreover the downloading and transcoding operations performed by server can be distributed across any number of computing devices rather than being performed on a single server .

As shown in the digital cable box includes in band tuner and out of band tuner along with respective demodulators and . Microprocessor controls the tuning operations of tuners and based on commands received from a subscriber via an input device such as a keypad or an infrared remote control device as described below. To this end set top box includes infrared sensor connected to an infrared receiver which provides the command signaling information to the microprocessor . Memory system includes operating system stored therein and preferably comprises a combination of volatile dynamic RAM and non volatile RAM NVRAM .

In this implementation iWGP content is broadcast across digital channels as MPEG transport packets onto a six megahertz analog channel. The set top box includes some number of packet identification PID filters which in this example are three 3 filters to extract the appropriate encoded data packets for an application selected digital channel. The audio video and metadata content corresponding the iWGP are each respectively encapsulated in transports packets assigned PIDs that are substantially unique within the scope of the transport stream. The digital service is associated via program specific information PSI to the metadata component which in turn references the corresponding video and or audio. One of the video and audio components may be declared in the PSI to supply a splash screen for presentation upon client tuning to the iWGP host digital service.

Based on the selected channel microprocessor writes an identification value to each PID filter whereby the filters pass only those packets corresponding to that value. As shown in one of the PID filters filter provides the filtered packets to an audio decoder which decodes the digital audio data encoded for example according to the AC3 format while another PID filter provides filtered MPEG still frame packets to the video decoder .

In addition to line level audio and video outputs the resulting video signal may be output from the set top box with separate luminance and chrominance signals SVHS format . Set top box may also contain a modulator not shown for combining the audio and video signals onto a modulated carrier channel such as channel 3 or 4 for compatibility with television sets not having separate audio and video inputs.

Third PID filter is provided to extract in band and out of band data such as metadata associated with corresponding MPEG still frames . As described above the metadata describes links to other MPEG stills other set top box co hosted applications e.g. an electronic programming guide EPG a VOD and or other applications along with data describing any number of side effects and actions. A user can select and activate the links with a hand held remote control thereby interacting with the pages of information displayed on the television screen or switching to the referenced application. Packet processor handles those packets by communicating them to navigator .

In this implementation wherein metadata is represented in an SVG data format iWGP Navigator uses an SVG rendering engine running on middleware to render a cursor on the set top on screen display frame buffer OSD over each hotspot on a displayed MPEG still . Using meta tags in source content which is parsed by the transcode server into metadata an author is able to indicate cursor attributes to the iWGP Navigator on a per page basis . OSD is capable of superimposing alphanumeric characters other symbols and bitmap graphics over a displayed image. To accomplish this superimposition overlay is provided to appropriately combine the video outputs of the video decoder and the OSD .

Cable box functions when the user provides an appropriate and valid command to the cable box. For example in response to a digital channel selection command the microprocessor tunes the in band tuner to an appropriate analog channel based on the digital channel selected by the subscriber. If a digital channel was selected a table or the like stored in memory determines the analog channel that carries the digital channel s packets along with the packet identification numbers corresponding to that channel for writing into PID filters and . Once the PIDs have been written audio and video decoders and will receive the appropriate packets and decode and output appropriate signals. As described below some of the packets will include iWGP s that have been dynamically generated at head end .

A user or subscriber utilizes set top box to display listen and or interact with cable data provided via head end . In particular the user utilizes set top box to display listen and or interact with iWGP s generated by head end . To this end iWGP navigator module has been downloaded into memory of set top box along with APIs for interfacing the iWGP navigator module to operating system of the set top box.

In one scenario when a subscriber tunes e.g. via remote control to a specified channel reserved for the Information Service of system of iWGP navigator enables the subscriber to browse iWGP s broadcast on the cable network. The user can launch the navigator from other co hosted set top applications such as from a menu within the EPG. Once an iWGP is launched the subscriber may navigate from one still to another still and from one program to another program .

For instance when the user presses a directional cursor button on input device such as represented by buttons the navigator module reads metadata associated with the displayed MPEG still to perform possible actions. Examples of some possible actions include adjusting focus tabbing through links hyperlinking to another MPEG still hyperlinking from the navigator module to another application e.g. an EPG etc.

Cable boxes typically provide APIs to control the tuner and selection of program elements in the MPEG2 stream. iWPG navigator module uses such an API in the APIs to specify the digital channel corresponding to the appropriate iWGP on the carousel whereby processor in set top box tunes in band tuner to the appropriate carrier and selects the program Service corresponding to the desired page group. The mapping between digital channels and carousel page programs is fixed and may be mapped to virtual channels for selective control of user channel access. The iWPG navigator selects the program element service component containing the carousel page for display and uses an API or the like to select the Video Program Element for display. As a result the PID is written to PID filter and the page image is decoded and displayed by the hardware.

iWPG navigator selects the program component that carries metadata for page group . Page metadata is organized in the carousel system. Each iWGP page has an associated metadata file. Cable boxes may provide a carousel system client access to specific metadata files in the carousel. The iWPG navigator reads the page metadata which includes a record for each hotlink on the page. Each hotlink record includes information such as the geometry of focus for that hot spot and other information specific to the hot spot.

For anchor elements the record includes the file name of the target iWGP page metadata to which the link refers. Note that the carousel contents are described by the carousel metadata which is carried in band or out of band. Where the hot spot indicates a link to a page in a different iWGP the record includes a reference to the particular digital service on which the target program is broadcast in addition to a metadata file name corresponding to the target page in the program.

After metadata has been read by iWPG navigator the iWPG navigator draws focus on a default link as specified by the page metadata. At this time displayed still is ready for user interaction. For example iWPG navigator draws focus on other links as they are tabbed to by the user according to the focus chain specified in the page metadata. Accordingly when the user moves focus to a hyperlink the module simply draws focus using OSD on some region of the screen as indicated by geometry information in page metadata. When the user selects the link the iWPG navigator changes the display to the destination page as indicated by the link data in the former page s metadata.

In other implementations described in the following alternative implementations section there is a many to one relationship between the numbers of MPEG stills generated from a single interface page. That is multiple MPEG stills are generated to respectively represent various background image and possibly text components of a single interface page. In another implementation text is extracted from background and or text layers of an interface page . The extracted text is not represented with an MPEG still but rather embedded into metadata for later rendering onto an OSD layer at the client .

At block the head end delivers the transcoded source content as an iWGP to one or more clients . At block the iWGP navigator presents received broadcast content to users for interaction.

The described systems and methods provide for dynamic conversion of Web content to an interactive walled garden program for presentation by digital television network clients. Although the systems and methods have been described in language specific to structural features and methodological operations the systems and methods as defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or operations described. Rather the specific features and operations are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed subject matter.

