---

title: Fluorescence detection of nitrogen-containing explosives and blue organic LED
abstract: The invention provides a sensor for detecting nitrogen containing high explosives. The sensor includes a substrate and a blue-photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer to be carried on said substrate during testing for nitrogen containing high explosives. The copolymer is preferably a blue-photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer, and preferably is a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer. A method for detecting nitrogen containing high explosives involves exposing a copolymer to an analyte, preferably by spraying the copolymer or otherwise coating the substrate after it has been exposed to analyte and then exciting the copolymer to luminesce. The copolymer is observed for fluorescence quenching, which can be through human or electronic observation. The invention also provides for synthesis of a vinyl bridged silafluorene polymer by providing diethynylmetallofluorene and dihydrosilafluorene as precursors and conducting catalytic hydrosilation of the precursors. In a blue emitting organic light emitting diode of the invention, an emitting layer is blue-photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08557595&OS=08557595&RS=08557595
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08557595
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080129
---
The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 60 897 988 which was filed on Jan. 29 2007.

This invention was made with government support under F49620 02 1 0288 awarded by Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is analyte detection. Another field of the invention is light emitting diodes. Example applications of the invention include safety screenings such as screenings of cargo facilities or people and forensic investigations.

Chemical sensors can be used to detect ultra trace explosive analytes. The critical importance of detecting explosives in a wide variety of areas such as minefields military bases remediation sites and urban transportation areas has spurred significant research into developing and improving chemical sensors. Safety screenings also encompass counter terrorism efforts such as personnel or baggage screening facility protection and cargo screening. In addition to such safety screenings the detection of explosive analytes is important for forensic investigations such as the examination of post blast residue.

Typical chemical sensors are small synthetic molecules that produce a measurable signal upon interaction with a specific analyte. Chemical sensors are cost effective and can succeed where other techniques fail to detect explosives. Modern land mines for example are encased in plastic and can be missed by metal detectors. Trained dogs are effective but are expensive and difficult to maintain. Other detection methods such as gas chromatography coupled with a to mass spectrometer surface enhanced Raman nuclear quadrupole resonance energy dispersive X ray diffraction neutron activation analysis and electron capture detection are highly selective but are expensive and not easily adapted to a small low power package.

Conventional chemical sensors also have limitations that render them ineffective under some conditions. Sensing TNT 2 4 6 trinitrotoluene and picric acid in groundwater or seawater is important for the detection of buried unexploded ordnance and for locating underwater mines but most chemical sensor detection methods are only applicable to air samples because of interference problems that are encountered in complex aqueous media. Such conventional chemical sensors are therefore inefficient in environmental applications for characterizing soil and groundwater contaminated with toxic TNT at military bases and munitions production and distribution facilities. In addition conventional chemical sensors such as highly conjugated porous organic polymers can be used to detect vapors of electron deficient chemicals but require many steps to synthesize and are not selective to explosives.

Many conventional chemical sensors are not amenable to manufacture as inexpensive low power portable devices. Typical chemical sensing methods are limited to vapor phase detection which is disadvantageous given the low volatility of many explosives. Nitroaromatic explosives such as TNT have moderate vapor pressures 7 10Torr at room temperature but at low surface concentrations the vapor concentration of TNT molecules is significantly lower than its equilibrium vapor pressure. Nitramine high explosives such as RDX cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine also known as cyclonite hexogen and T4 and HMX cyclotetramethylene tetranitramine have substantially lower vapor pressures 5 10and 8 10Torr respectively than TNT which makes vapor detection of these compounds very difficult. Vapor concentrations can be up to six times lower than TNT when these compounds are enclosed in a bomb or mine casing or when they are present in a mixture with other explosives. The broad array of nitrogen based explosives has rendered it difficult to provide a single method whereby multiple types of explosives may be detected.

While efficient explosives detection has always been a predominating concern there exists a renewed urgency for development of rapid and highly sensitive detection of organic nitrogen based explosives including nitroaromatic compounds nitramine based explosives and nitrate ester based explosives. In addition to detecting TNT for example detection of the nitrogen based plastic explosives compounds associated with improvised explosives devices IEDs namely RDX and PETN pentaerythritol tetranitrate has life saving applications in a vast array of applications such as forensic military and civilian homeland security purposes.

The invention provides a sensor for detecting nitrogen containing high explosives. The sensor includes a substrate and a blue photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer to be carried on said substrate during testing for nitrogen containing high explosives. The copolymer is preferably a blue photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer and preferably is a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer. A method for detecting nitrogen containing high explosives involves exposing a copolymer to an analyte preferably by spraying the copolymer or otherwise coating the substrate after it has been exposed to analyte and then exciting the copolymer to luminesce. The copolymer is observed for fluorescence quenching which can be through human or electronic observation. The invention also provides for synthesis of a vinyl bridged silafluorene polymer by providing diethynylmetallofluorene and dihydrosilafluorene as precursors and conducting catalytic hydrosilation of the precursors. In a blue emitting organic light emitting diode of the invention an emitting layer is blue photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer.

An embodiment of the present invention provides for the synthesis of a vinyl bridged metallofluorene copolymer PSFA which is a copolymer of a polymetallofluorene and polyacetylene polymer. The PSFA which is preferably a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer can be used in preferred methods for detecting a broad range of nitrogen based explosives that may be present in a sampling substrate. More generally blue photoluminescent silafluorene copolymers can be used in preferred sensing methods of the invention. Detectable nitrogen containing explosives include for example nitroaromatic based nitramine based and nitrate ester based high explosives. PSFA is a single reagent that can detect a wide range of nitrogen containing explosives in methods of the invention which rely upon fluorescence quenching of the PSFA by nitrogen containing explosives.

The invention provides a sensor for detecting nitrogen containing high explosives. The sensor includes a substrate and a blue photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer to be carried on said substrate during testing for nitrogen containing high explosives. The copolymer is preferably a blue photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer and preferably is a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer. A method for detecting nitrogen containing high explosives involves exposing a copolymer to an analyte preferably by spraying the copolymer or otherwise coating the substrate after it has been exposed to analyte and then exciting the copolymer to luminesce. The copolymer is observed for fluorescence quenching which can be through human or electronic observation. The invention also provides for synthesis of a vinyl bridged silafluorene polymer by providing diethynylmetallofluorene and dihydrosilafluorene as precursors and conducting catalytic hydrosilation of the precursors. In a blue emitting organic light emitting diode of the invention an emitting layer is blue photoluminescent metallofluorene copolymer.

A preferred embodiment sensor of the invention includes a sampling substrate and PSFA. During testing the sampling substrate is exposed to an environment that is suspected of containing one or more nitroaromatic nitramine and nitrate ester based explosives.

Embodiments of the invention include methods and sensors for detecting nitrogen based explosives with a vinyl bridged metallofluorene copolymer preferably a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer combined with photoluminescent metallole polymers and copolymers for detection of nitroaromatic compounds based on photoluminescence quenching to provide further confirmation of the detected analytes. United States Published Applications Nos. 20060051872 published Mar. 9 2006 and 20050101026 Published May 12 2005 describe methods and sensors that can be used in combination with the present PSFA sensors and methods.

Other embodiments of the invention include an organic LED that emits in the blue range. The PSFA polymers and the polymers in the above mentioned published applications can be used to form organic LEDs that emit in the blue range. The PSFA preferably a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer serves as the emitting layer of a multi layer organic light emitting diode. Preferred embodiments include organic LEDs that emit in the blue range having a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer emitting layer.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to the synthesis of inorganic polymers and use of inorganic polymers namely an alternating metallofluorene acetylene photoluminescent copolymer for the detection of organic nitrogen based explosives. Preferred embodiments of the invention provide a one step method for detecting most nitrogen based high explosives used in improvised explosive devices. Methods and sensors of the invention are sensitive rapid low cost and capable of detecting a wide range of explosives.

In a preferred method of the invention the PSFA vinyl bridged metallofluorene copolymer and preferably a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer is excited at an appropriate range using a UV B 302 nm or UV C 254 nm blacklight LED or other illumination source. Detection of nitrogen containing explosives is confirmed by detecting fluorescence quenching at 370 nm 430 nm of the copolymer by the analyte i.e. the explosive . The visible spectrum is approximately 400 700 nm so the quenching overlaps only slightly in the visible range. The PSFA can also be modified to shift the range for example by modification with ring substituted silofluorene s that can more the emission out to the visible range. Also increasing the conjugation of the organic bridge would be expected to move the emission toward the visible range.

Other embodiments of the invention include an organic LED that emits in the blue range. The PSFA polymers can be used as a blue emitting layer or combined with the polymers in the published applications identified above to form the emitting layer of organic LEDs that emit in the blue range. This is very valuable because there is a shortage of candidate blue emitting compounds. Preferred embodiments include organic LEDs having a PSFA emitting layer that emits in the blue range.

While previous work has provided methods and sensors useful for detecting trace quantities of nitroaromatic compounds embodiments of the instant invention are especially advantageous in providing a single copolymer PSFA for the fluorimetric detection of a range of common nitrogen containing explosives including nitroaromatic e.g. TNT nitrate ester e.g. PETN and nitramine based explosives e.g. RDX . The high energy of the excited state in the UV luminescent PSFA offers an increased driving force for electron transfer to the explosive analyte and improved detection limits by electron transfer quenching. Detection is carried out in a one step fluorescence quenching mechanism. Embodiments of the invention are particularly advantageous in that the method is sensitive rapid low cost and capable of detecting a wide range of trace explosives on a variety of surfaces including bomb makers hands clothing hair dwellings packages cars and door knobs to their houses to name a few.

Metallofluorenes contain silicon Si or germanium Ge in a fluorene framework. Poly metallofluorenes are of special interest because of their unusual electronic and optical properties and because of their possible application as electron transporting materials in devices. They are also of interest due to their high energy band gap as compared to the simple metallole derivatives. This feature allows for the detection of explosives that do not have good energy overlap with simple metallole polymers.

Typically polymetalloles and polymetallofluorenes have a Si Si Ge Ge or Si Ge backbone encapsulated by the highly conjugated unsaturated five membered ring systems as side chains. These polymers are highly photoluminscent and are accordingly useful as light emitting diodes LEDs and as chemical sensors. However optimized synthetic approaches including Wurtz coupling and dehydrogenative coupling produce only short chain oligomers for metalloles while creating cyclic hexameric complexes for metallofluorenes. The Si Si backbone also creates a fragile framework.

A copolymer of a polymetallofluorene and polyacetylene polymer PSFA provides both high molecular weight polymers by catalytic hydrosilation which prevents formation of cyclic complexes. It also provides a stronger Si C backbone increasing the stability of this copolymer in solution and the solid state. Characteristic features of PSFA include a low reduction potential and a low lying lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO due conjugation arising from the interaction between the orbital of silicon or germanium and the orbital of the butadiene moiety of the five membered ring. However a wide band gap provides good overlap between the excited state LUMO of the copolymer and the LUMO of the highly electron deficient explosive material. In addition the conjugated backbone exhibits moderate delocalization which further delocalizes the conjugated metallolefluorene electrons along the backbone. Electron delocalization in these polymers provides a means of amplification because interaction between an analyte molecule at any position along the polymer chain is communicated throughout the delocalized chain.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a rapid low cost highly sensitive method of detection for a range of explosive materials including nitroaromatic nitrate ester and nitramine based explosives. In one exemplary method a sampling substrate is exposed to a single detection reagent to determine the presence and amount of various solid explosive particulates. While the sampling substrate may be separate from the surface suspected of being contaminated with the target explosive i.e. a substrate exposed to a potentially contaminated surface the sampling substrate may also include the contaminated surface itself One exemplary sampling substrate is filter paper that is contacted with or otherwise exposed to the contaminated surface.

Additional embodiments and features will be apparent to artisans with reference to experiments that have been conducted. The experiments showed that during the detection process extremely small amounts of nitroaromatic based nitramine based and nitrate ester based explosives can be detected. For example amounts that were approximately 1 ng 6 ng and 6 ng respectively were detected in experiments. The types of explosives that were detected in experiments include trace residues of picric acid PA 2 4 6 trinitrophenol CH NO OH 2 4 dinitrotoluene DNT CHNO and 2 4 6 trinitrotoluene TNT CHNO . Nitramine based explosives detected in experiments include cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine RDX CHNO cyclotetramethylene tetranitramine HMX CHNO and 2 4 6 trinitrophenyl N methylnitramine Tetryl CHNO . Nitrate ester based explosives detected in experiments include pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN CHNO and trinitroglycerin TNG CHNO .

A preferred method of detection is carried out by exposing a sampling substrate to a reagent of PSFA. Based on experimental results it is predicted that PSFA may be placed in one of a variety of volatile organic solvents. One exemplary reagent includes a 1 mg mL solution of PSFA in a 9 1 acetone toluene solvent. Prior to use the reagent is preferably stored in a container that inhibits photodegredation such as an amber vial or dark environment to preserve the copolymer from possible photodegredation. A preferred embodiment is a test kit that includes PSFA stored in such a container and a plurality of testing substrates. Other embodiments include a substrate pre treated with PSFA. When the substrates are pre treated sensitivity is reduced. Intimate mixing of PSFA and analyte such as is achieved through spraying of otherwise coating PSFA onto a substrate that has been exposed to analyte is required to achieve low detection limits. More generally blue photoluminescent silafluorene copolymers can be used in preferred sensing methods and sensors of the invention of the invention.

In preferred detection methods PSFA is sprayed on or otherwise deposited on a sampling surface that has been exposed to analyte. In a preferred method the reagent is sprayed onto the sample substrate at volumetric flow rate of approximately 0.5 mL s. The sampling substrate and PSFA are then stimulated electrically or with an appropriate wavelength of light such as 302 nm with a UV B 302 nm or UV C 254 nm blacklight LED or other illumination source. Detection of nitrogen containing explosives can be confirmed by visually or instrumentally e.g. with a U.V. or visible CCD camera or a fluorimeter detecting fluorescence quenching at 370 430 nm of the copolymer by the analyte e.g. TNT RDX and PETN . Advantageously detection is selective for strongly oxidizing explosive materials.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale.

In preferred methods detection of the nitrogen containing explosives can be accomplished by measurement of the quenching of photoluminescence of PSFA preferably a vinyl bridged silafluorene copolymer by the analyte. Sensitivity of PSFA to the analytes picric acid TNT and DNT is as follows TNT PA DNT. Sensitivity of PSFA to the analytes RDX HMX and Tetryl is as follows Tetryl RDX HMX. Sensitivity of PSFA to the analytes TNG and PETN are as follows PETN TNG. Experimentally determined detection limits for sensing using a 254 nm backlight are summarized in Table 1.

The detection limits in Table 1 were obtained with use of a 254 nm blacklight. Explosives detection data was obtained using a double blind test where the detection limit was set at the lowest concentration of analyte that could be detected with 90 accuracy by an observer. Excitation can be achieved with either electrical or optical stimulation. If optical stimulation is used a light source containing energy that is larger than the wavelength of luminescence emission of the copolymer is preferably used. This could be achieved with for example a mercury lamp a blue light emitting diode or an ultraviolet light emitting diode. For electrical stimulation the PSFA would be used as the emitting layer in an organic light emitting diode OLED multilayer device.

By H NMR spectroscopy the monomers diethynylmetallofluorene and dihydrometallofluorene were completely consumed in the reaction. Molecular weights M of 1.5 10 2.0 10are obtained. illustrates a space filling model structure of PSFA which features a Si C backbone inside a conjugated ring system of side chains closely packed to yield a helical arrangement. The molecular weights and polydisperity indices PDI of PSFA were determined by H NMR and gel permeation chromatography GPC respectively.

The UV vis absorption and fluorescence spectral data for PSFA are illustrated in . PSFA exhibits one absorption band which is ascribed to the transition in the metallofluorene ring. PSFA exhibits one fluorescence emission band with a shoulder that tails into the visible spectrum. The fluorescence spectrum of PSFA is red shifted approximately 20 nm from the dihydrosilafluorene and diethynylsilafluorene monomers. This red shift is attributed to an increasing main chain length and partial conjugation between silafluorene units.

Photoluminescence quenching arises from the interaction of the PSFA with analyte in thin film. Brief solvation of the analyte upon application of PSFA allows for mixing of the copolymer with the explosive material. Nitroaromatic explosive analytes may participate in a static quenching process through stacking interactions with the aromatic features of PSFA thereby resulting in a slightly lower detection limit. Optical excitation produces an electron hole pair which is delocalized through the PSFA framework. When an electron deficient molecule such as TNT or RDX is present electron transfer quenching occurs from the excited metallofluorene copolymer to the LUMO of the analyte. The copolymer quencher complex luminescence intensity depends on the electron acceptor ability of the quencher as well as the van der Waals interactions of the analyte with the copolymer.

An important aspect of the PSFA is its relative insensitivity to common interferents. Control experiments using both solutions and thin films of PSFA deposited on Whatman filter paper with air displayed no change in the photoluminescence spectrum. Similarly exposure of metallofluorene acetylene copolymers both as solutions and as thin films to organic solvents such as toluene THF and methanol produced no significant decrease in photoluminescence intensity.

In the experiments that were conducted Benzophenone was the only common intereferent found to be detected by PSFA. This result is understandable considering the high oxidizing ability and the aromatic structure of this interferent. These results indicate that PSFA exhibits less response to interferences and greater response to nitroaromatic compounds compared to other fluorescent polymer sensors.

All synthetic manipulations were carried out under an atmosphere of dry dinitrogen gas using standard vacuum line Schlenk techniques. All solvents were degassed and purified prior to use according to standard literature methods diethyl ether hexanes tetrahydrofuran and toluene purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. Inc. were distilled from sodium benzophenone ketal. Spectroscopic grade of toluene from Fisher Scientific was used for the fluorescent measurement. NMR grade deuterochloroform was stored over 4 molecular sieves. All other reagents Aldrich were used as received or distilled prior to use.

NMR data were collected with Varian Unity 300 400 or 500 MHz spectrometers 300.1 MHz for H NMR 75.5 MHz for C NMR and 99.2 MHz for Si NMR and all NMR chemical shifts are reported in parts per million ppm downfield shifts are reported as positive values from tetramethylsilane TMS as standard at 0.00 ppm. The H and C chemical shifts are reported relative to CHCl 77.0 ppm as an internal standard and the Si chemical shifts are reported relative to an external TMS standard. NMR spectra were recorded using samples dissolved in CDCl unless otherwise stated on the following instrumentation.

1 1 dichlorosilafluorene 1.0 g 4.0 mmol was placed in 70 mL dry THF. Ethynylmagnesium bromide in THF 16 mL 8 mmol was slowly syringed into the reaction flask. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hrs. The light brown solution was filtered and evaporated to dryness. The light brown solid was purified by sublimation 90 110 C. 0.2 Ton to yield 640 mg 70 of a white crystalline solid. Selected data H NMR 300.134 MHz CDCl3 7.80 dd 4H Ph H 7.50 td 2H Ph H 7.35 td 2H Ph H 2.60 s 2H C C H Si NMR 71.548 MHz inversed gated decoupling CDCl3 51.2 s silafluorene .

1 1 diethynylsilafluorene 100 mg 0.4 mmol 1 1 dihydrosilafluorene 79 mg 0.4 mmol and 0.5 mol HPtCl.xH2O were stirred in dry toluene 1 mL at 100 C. for 24 h. The orange brown solution was filtered while warm and evaporated to dryness. The remaining solid was dissolved in 1 mL of THF and precipitated with the addition of 15 mL of methanol. The resulting light white solid was collected by vacuum filtration 0.101 g 56 . Selected data H NMR 300.134 MHz CDCl3 7.9 6.5 br. 10H Ph H and C C H 2.61 s 2H terminal C C H Si NMR 71.548 MHz inversed gated decoupling CDCl3 6 ppm s silafluorene H NMR M 1.9 10determined by ratio of phenyl protons to terminal ethynyl protons GPC Mw Mn 1.37 determined by SEC with polystyrene standards UV conc. 10 mg L 292 nm Fluorescence 361 nm at 293 nm.

The method of explosives detection is through luminescence quenching of the metallofluorene containing copolymer by the explosive analyte. Eight common explosives were tested trinitrotoluene TNT 2 4 dinitrotoluene DNT picric acid PA cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine RDX cyclotetramethylene tetranitramine HMX 2 4 6 trinitrophenyl N methylnitramine Tetryl pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN and trinitroglycerin TNG . Stock solutions of the explosives were prepared in toluene. Aliquots 1 5 L of the stock containing 5 to 100 ng analyte were syringed onto Whatman filter paper and allowed to dry completely. The spots were between 3 and 10 mm in diameter producing a surface concentration of not more than 64 ng cmand not less than 17 ng cm. Solutions of the polymers 0.5 1 w v were prepared in 9 1 acetone toluene. A thin film of a copolymer was applied to the substrate by spray coating a polymeric solution onto the substrate and air drying. The coated substrates were placed under a black light to excite the copolymer fluorescence. Dark spots in the film indicate luminescence quenching of the copolymer by the analyte. The process was carried out for each of the eight explosive analytes.

The experiments show that nitrogen containing explosives may be visually detected in nanogram quantities by fluorescence quenching of photoluminescent silafluorene based copolymers. Detection limits depend on the explosive analyte. Illumination with a black light 302 nm excites the copolymer fluorescence near 360 430 nm. Spots were clearly visible to human observation and can be imaged as was shown by taken photographs. Since the spots can be readily photographed the observation of quenching can also be conducted electronically for example by image analysis software that searches for the dark spots or lack of uniformity in the luminescence of the copolymer. The observation of spots clearly indicated the luminescence quenching of PSFA by 200 100 50 and 10 ng of Tetryl TNT RDX and PETN on Whatman filter paper. Luminescence quenching is observed immediately upon illumination. PSFA is photodegradable if left in ambient light more than two weeks. However luminescence will remain in the solid state thin films for days. These polymers present an inexpensive and simple method to detect low nanogram level of nitroaromatic explosives.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

