---

title: Specificity and sensitivity enhancement in cantilever sensing
abstract: The invention is directed to a sensor system including at least one sensor and target specific receptors bound substrates for purposes of enhancing detection sensitivity. Optionally, the sensor system may include quantum dots for independently verifying the presence of a target molecule or compound. The sensor system may be particularly beneficial in the field of medical diagnostics, bio-defense, food safety, water safety and general chemical detection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08481335&OS=08481335&RS=08481335
owner: Drexel University
number: 08481335
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081003
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 943 790 filed on Nov. 21 2007 currently pending under 35 U.S.C. 120 which in turn is a non provisional of U.S. provisional application No. 60 867 245 filed on Nov. 27 2006 pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e a non provisional of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 046 899 filed on Apr. 22 2008 pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e and a non provisional of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 977 776 filed on Oct. 5 2007 pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e 

This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. R01 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

The invention is directed to a sensor system and a method for providing a higher degree of specificity and sensitivity in cantilever sensing. More specifically the invention relates to the binding of substrates to target specific receptors to improve detection specificity and sensitivity in cantilever sensors.

The National Center for Health Statistics reports that cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States accounting for 22.7 of deaths in 2003. Many of these deaths may have been prevented by early detection and diagnosis which offers the most chance of successfully fighting cancer. In an attempt to advance early detection technologies scientists have been trying to develop biosensors capable of identifying minute amounts of specific proteins in a sample that contains multiple protein species to create a sensitive blood test for detecting cancer markers. The presence of minute amounts of cancer marker proteins or debris shed by cancer cells present in patients blood however is typically overshadowed by the large amount of proteins normally contained in serum samples. The lack of sufficient detection specificity and sensitivity therefore is a critical and currently unresolved issue hindering the development of viable diagnostic tools based on protein detection.

One of the most common commercially available sensor systems for biosensing applications the quartz crystal microbalance QCM uses thickness mode resonance detection. The detection sensitivity of a QCM is related to the resonance frequency and the thickness of the quartz membrane. A resonance frequency of about 5 MHz corresponding to a quartz membrane thickness of 330 m enables a minimum detectable mass density of about 10g cm. Sensitivity is therefore generally limited to a range of about 10g Hz. Although convenient and economical the QCM has a relatively low detection sensitivity in the ng ml range. By contrast protein detection for diagnostic purposes generally requires a sensitivity in the range of pg ml to fg ml.

Another popular sensor system ELISA for example has a detection sensitivity of 0.01 50 ng ml for proteins in solution depending on the affinity of antibodies. Detection using the ELISA system however is time intensive and requires labeling. Recently H. Zhang et al. A Sensitive and High Throughput Assay to Detect Low Abundance Proteins in Serum 12 4 473 477 2006 showed that ELISA detection can be enhanced 10fold 5 pg ml by replacing enzymes with RNA polymerase in HER 2 detection. Even with this improvement processing speed and expense remain a significant concern.

Some methods for increasing the sensitivity of current sensors are known. One example of this is found in J. W. Park S. Kurosawa H. Aizawa Y. Goda M. Takai and K. Ishihara Piezoelectric Immunosensor for Bisphenol A Based on Signal Enhancing Step With 2 methacrolyloxyethyl Phosphorylcholine Polymeric Nanoparticle 131 155 162 2006 .

Current state of the art sensors therefore are incapable of both real time label free detection and highly sensitive detection. This shortcoming is particularly problematic for applications involving biological samples which typically have a high protein concentration that creates noise interfering with detection sensitivity. For example the ability to detect minute amounts of a target protein or DNA in sera is hindered by the background serum protein concentrations in the test sample. The large amount of protein in sera significantly dilutes biomarker concentration which in turn reduces detection sensitivity.

Current sensors also lack an independent means for verifying detection results. An independent verification means would efficiently minimize false positive and false negative results which is particular critical to the field of medical diagnostics and cancer detection. Therefore there exists a need to develop a sensor system that enables highly sensitive label free real time detection as well as verification of the detection results.

The present invention is directed to a sensor system and a method for its use. The system uses substrates provided with target specific receptors to enhance detection sensitivity.

In a first aspect the invention relates to a sensor system including at least one sensor including a plurality of target specific receptors capable of binding a specific target molecule or compound. A detector is operatively associated with said sensor and is capable of detecting a change in at least one property of said sensor. Substrates are positioned to contact said at least one sensor each said substrate having at least one target specific receptor directly or indirectly bound to said substrate said target specific receptor being capable of binding the target molecule or compound. The target specific receptors bound to said substrates do not bind to the same binding site on said target molecule or compound as said target specific receptors of said sensor.

Another aspect of the invention involves a method for using the sensor system comprising exposing a sensor system to a test sample and determining a presence or concentration of a target molecule or compound.

For illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referencing various exemplary embodiments thereof. Although certain embodiments of the invention are specifically described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be employed in other compositions and methods. Before explaining the disclosed embodiments of the present invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of any particular embodiment shown. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Further although certain methods are described with reference to certain steps that are presented herein in certain order in many instances these steps may be performed in any order as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art and the methods are not limited to the particular arrangement of steps disclosed herein.

The invention is directed to a sensor system and method for enhanced detection using a substrate bound to a target specific receptor. The system enables rapid real time label free highly specific and sensitive detection and optionally may further enable a means for rapid independent verification of the detection results. The sensor system may be used for the detection of any molecule or compound in any sample medium for which a receptor and target pair is available.

As shown in the sensor system includes at least one sensor provided with receptors attached to at least a surface of sensor . Receptors are preferably selected for their ability to bind to a particular target molecule or compound or a class of target molecules or compounds. Receptors may be bound to the surface of sensor in any suitable conventional manner. As a result sensor may be rendered capable of detecting the presence of a target molecule or compound since target will bind to receptors on the surface of sensor . In one embodiment the resultant shift in the mechanical resonance frequency of the sensor due to the binding of target may be monitored to indicate the presence of target in the media to which the sensor and receptors have been exposed.

Sensor may have any suitable structural configuration and may be constructed from any suitable material that enables detection. Sensor may be configured as a cantilever sensor in which binding stresses due to the bound target can be detected. Detection can be facilitated for example by the provision of a piezoelectric material in association with sensor whereby the resonance frequency of sensor can be measured by measuring the output from the piezoelectric material and relating that resonance frequency shift to the binding of target and the associated binding stress exerted on sensor . One particularly useful embodiment of sensor is in the form of a piezoelectric microcantilever since this embodiment facilitates sensitivity at very low concentrations of target . Exemplary piezoelectric microcantilevers may have detection sensitivities in the range of about fg ml to about pg ml depending on the specific sensing application.

The sensor system of the present invention provides binding substrates in a sample material which is to be sensed. Each binding substrate may be provided with target specific receptors bound to binding substrate . Target specific receptors include binding sites which are specific for binding target molecules or compounds . Thus in the embodiment of the invention shown in substrates are provided with at least one preferably target specific receptors bound to each substrate . In this embodiment each target specific receptor includes one binding site which is specific for binding target molecule or compound . In one embodiment target specific receptors are employed to indirectly bind substrate to sensor via binding of target specific receptors to target molecules or compounds that are also bound to target specific receptors bound to a surface of sensor as shown in . In embodiments where it is desirable to determine the concentration of the target in addition to being able to detect the presence of target it is beneficial to select substrates such that the average number of target specific receptors on each substrate is known. It is also advantageous to select target specific receptors and such that the average number of binding sites on each target specific receptor is known. In this manner the resonance frequency shift can be mathematically related to the concentration of target in the sample by calibration of the sensor system.

In an embodiment of the invention where it is desirable to measure the concentration of target molecules or compounds a key aspect of target specific receptors is their ability to selectively bind a specific target molecule or compound at a different binding site on target than is used to form the bond between target and target specific receptors . Thus target specific receptors do not compete with target specific receptors immobilized on a surface of sensor for binding sites on target molecules or compounds . In one embodiment each substrate includes one target specific receptor in which case target specific receptors function to bind substrates to targets which targets will also be bound to target specific receptors on the surface of sensor . In this manner the weight of target specific receptors and substrate is added to the weight of the bound target molecules or compounds thereby enhancing the detection sensitivity of sensor . Detection sensitivity is enhanced since lower concentrations of target can be employed to generate a larger signal from sensor due to the added binding stress providing by the additional binding of target specific receptors and substrates to the surface of sensor . Without wishing to be bound by theory selecting for micron sized or larger substrates the large mass of the bound substrates and stress generated by the bound substrates will dramatically enhance the detection signal even when there are only few target molecules on the sensor surface. The micron size target specific receptors bound to substrate are estimated to be able to enhance detection sensitivity by a factor of approximately 10.

The target specific receptors may be any receptor such as specially synthesized cavitants DNA oligonucleotides proteins single chain variable fragments scFvs enzymes antibodies etc. which selectively bind a particular cell protein antigen pathogen etc. For example when trying to detect tumors monomeric and dimeric anti tumor scFv molecules composed of variable light and heavy chains of antibody molecule anti ECD scFV which react to cancer markers are useful target specific receptors. Similarly when trying to detect BA antibodies specific to BA spore surface antigens may be used.

In one embodiment the target specific receptors are high affinity high specificity non competing secondary antibodies which target a specific antigen a primary antibody located on the surface of a sensor may be used to capture the antigens and subsequently capture any secondary antibody specific receptors which binds to a non competing epitope on the antigen.

Secondary antibodies that do not compete with the primary antibodies may be identified from panels of single chain variable fragment scFv antibodies isolated from combinatorial naive phage display libraries or from commercial sources. Additionally the secondary antibodies may be formulated from new scFv antibodies that are isolated from other scFv phage display libraries in the presence of high concentrations of the primary antibodies to promote the isolation of non competing clones.

Combinatorial naive phage display libraries are another source for non competing secondary antibodies. These libraries are typically created through the random combination of human variable light and variable heavy chain domains resulting in the creation of antibodies that are specific for regions i.e. epitopes on target antigens that are not normally immunogenic. The use of phage display therefore significantly increases the areas on the antigen that can be bound by a secondary antibody.

Substrate may be any microparticle more preferably the substrate is a microsphere microrod microplate and most preferably the substrate is a microsphere microrod or microplate having a diameter of about 0.1 microns to about 100 microns. The microspheres may function like cells or spores that can be captured by a target molecule or compound attached to a sensor.

Optionally substrate may be populated with one or more quantum dots to further enable visualization and imaging of the captured target molecules or compounds . Quantum dots fluoresce under excitation light providing visual or fluorescent verification that the target molecules or compounds are captured on the sensor surface and thus confirming the presence of the target molecule or compound in a sample. Therefore it is possible to view a sample under a fluorescent microscope and determine the concentration of target molecules or compounds based on the photoluminescence of the quantum dot populated substrates . Quantum dots are particularly useful in imaging proteins and cells in biological systems due to their stability against photo bleaching and their ability to be conjugated to target proteins such as antibodies. Typically clusters of quantum dots are able to better image biological organisms with brighter luminescence than single quantum dots therefore quantum dot populated substrates are expected to significantly enhance molecular imaging. demonstrate the imagining of bacteria . cells using quantum dots directly conjugated with target specific receptor antibodies under normal light and under ultraviolet light respectively. shows a ZnS quantum dot suspension MPA Zn S 8 4 1 1.6 mM having a pH 12 producing a bright blue emission after excitation using an ultraviolet lamp having a wavelength of 302 nm and shows the absorption and photoluminescent emission spectra of the suspension.

Quantum dots may be synthesized using any standard fabrication techniques and may be of any suitable size. The environmentally friendly method for fabricating quantum dots disclosed in W. H. Shih H. Li M. Schillo and W. Y. Shih Synthesis of Water Soluble Nanocrystalline Quantum Dots and Uses Thereof U.S. Pat. No. 7 335 345 Feb. 26 2008 is herein incorporated by reference. In addition nontoxic QDs disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 943 790 Synthesis of Water Soluble Nanocrystalline ZnS Quantum Dots and Uses Thereof filed on Nov. 21 2007 and near infrared QDs disclosed in U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 046 899 Water soluble Nanocrystalline Quantum Dots Capable of Near Infrared Emissions filed on Apr. 22 2008 are incorporated herein by reference. Copies of these documents are on file at the United States Patent Office at the time of filing of this International application with the United States Patent Office as the Receiving Office.

In a preferred embodiment microsphere substrates having a diameter of about 0.1 micron 100 microns may be coated with quantum dots having a size ranging from 3 nm 100 nm.

The sensor system of the present invention may be used to detect and verify the presence of a select molecule or compound by exposing target specific receptor bound substrates to a testing environment containing the sensor and sample to be tested. The target specific receptor bound substrates may be introduced to the testing environment or sample before at the same time as or after the sensor is exposed to the sample. In one embodiment the sample and sensor are first allowed to react for a defined period of time before the target specific receptor bound substrates are introduced to allow the target molecules or compounds to first bind to the sensor . This reaction time can vary depending upon the sample size target molecules or compounds and target specific receptors . In another embodiment the sample and target specific receptors are first mixed to together and then exposed to the sensor .

Sensor system functions by binding target molecules or compounds that react to a first set of target specific receptors immobilized on a conductive element. The binding of a target molecule or compound causes a subsequent change in mass and a change in the spring constant of the sensor which correspondingly shifts the mechanical resonance frequency of the sensor . The sensor detects these shifts in resonance frequency f expressed in Equation 1 which models the functionality of the sensor 

To further increase sensitivity and expedite the detection process the sensor may be immersed in a flowing solution for in solution detection. The sensors are preferably situated in a flow cell system to enable tailored rapid and simultaneous detection and quantification of multiple compounds or molecules. shows a flow cell system with a sensor holder measuring unit having a total volume of less than 0.03 30 ml pump and a mechanism for controlling temperature and humidity not shown . The flow cell may attain flow rates of up to 0.1 100 ml min. The total volume of the flow cell number of channels and flow rate may vary depending upon the number of compounds to be measured. The flow cell may cooperate with a portable sensor unit shown in which has multiple channels for the simultaneous quantification of multiple receptor specific molecules. The portable sensor unit is inexpensive and capable of obtaining quick measurements.

The sensor system of the present application may be used in various sensing applications such as solid liquid transition detectors liquid viscosity and density sensors mass sensors for in situ and in solution detection. The sensor may generally be used for detection of any molecule or compound in any sample medium but is particularly effective for in solution detection and detection in biological samples.

The sensor system may be particularly promising as a diagnostic instrument. It may be useful as a means for early detection for various forms of cancers such as breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer and or other diseases and the incorporation of quantum dots may minimize the possibility of false positive and false negative results. It may also be used to monitor the progress of the disease throughout treatment and the sensor system may even be incorporated in a portable device and used as a noninvasive means for testing blood and other biological samples for various pathogens infectious agents and other markers indicative of disease in a highly sensitive and verifiable manner. For example the sensor system would enable real time protein or DNA detection with sensitivities in the range of fg ml. Furthermore since the system can be formulated as a cost efficient and portable device such a diagnostic tool may be easily incorporated in a patient s annual physical. Such a rapid direct label free detection system for pathogens or indicators such as cancer markers can be used to screen a patients blood. Moreover no additional chemical analysis is required so patients will be able to rapidly obtain their results at the point of care.

Additionally the sensor system may be useful for the detection of bioterrorism agents. Primary antibody receptors specific to at least one bioterrorism agent may be bound to an electrode and secondary antibody receptors may be bound to a substrate for use in detecting the presence of bioterrorism antigens. In addition to identifying the existence of a bioterrorism agent it may also be used to quantify the concentration of the agent.

The sensor system may also be applicable for the food science and food manufacturing industry. The sensor system may be used as a diagnostic instrument for detecting pathogens or other disease agents present in food supplies and prepared or processed foods. Additionally it may also be useful in manufacturing plants and food service industries as a means of intermittently checking food products during different phases of food preparations thereby preventing contamination and the spread of bacterial or viral diseases such as and

Sensor system may also be applicable for detecting and or measuring water borne pathogens in water treatment plants. The sensor system may be used as an evaluation tool for monitoring the purity of drinking water or waste water.

Antigens attached to substrates are easier to detect in comparison to sensors without substrates because the additional mass of the substrates affects the detection signal of the sensor. Previous studies have established that using biotinylated polystyrene spheres to bind biotin on immobilized avidin can be easily detected whereas the same binding event using molecular biotin is more difficult. Using a PZT stainless steel piezoelectric microcantilever having a PZT layer 1.3 mm long and 3.35 mm wide and having a 2.87 mm long gold coated stainless steel tip coated with avidin it was possible to bind biotin in a biotinylated polystyrene suspension. The biotinylated polystyrene spheres were approximately 2 m in diameter and produced a resonance frequency shift of about f 250 Hz as shown in .

By contrast the attachment of avidin alone on the sensor surface resulted in a f 800 Hz not shown . Avidin has a molecular weight of 67 KDa whereas biotin is a much smaller molecule of 244 Da. As a result based on the mass difference the binding of even a dense biotin layer to avidin on the surface of the cantilever would produce only a 800 244 67000 3 Hz shift. The results in indicate that attaching the biotin to a sphere of 2 m size enhances the detection signal of the biotin binding to avidin by a factor of 240 3 80 times. Although the factor of enhancement is less than the theoretical estimated value of 10because the sensor surface was not fully covered with the biotinylated spheres due to hindrance and or other effects the enhancement in detection sensitivity due to the microspheres is clearly evident.

In one example of the sensor system of the present invention a 1 m size microsphere has roughly 4 10quantum dots on its surface and can amplify the optical signal of QD marker protein binding 4 10fold. Moreover since a 1 m size microsphere has a mass 8 10times that of a quantum dot the binding of a microsphere can enhance the piezoelectric microcantilever sensor resonance frequency shift by 8 10times that which is achievable with a single quantum dot. As a result quantum dot coated microspheres not only can image but also enhance detection sensitivity.

In one preferred embodiment the sensor system comprises antigen coated microspheres decorated with metal sulfide MS quantum dots. The MS quantum dots may be fabricated from various materials using various different fabrication means. MS quantum dots were be synthesized using 3 mercaptopropionic acid MPA metal nitrate M NO and sodium sulfide NaS . The well dispersed transparent and highly photoluminescent MS quantum dots which may be fabricated in 30 minutes at room temperature produced a MPA M ratio of about 8 2. Replacing M NO with zinc nitrate Zn NO and ZnS quantum dots were fabricated at 100 C. and at a pH 9 in a hydrothermal bomb. The resultant ZnS quantum dots were found to be highly luminescent. The highly photoluminescent ZnS quantum dots of were synthesized at room temperature in 30 min by adjusting the synthesis solution pH to 12. To improve the ambient stability of the quantum dots MPA were replaced with 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane MPS . As shown in the MPS capped ZnS quantum dots are monodispersed. The photoluminescent intensity of MPS capped ZnS increased over time regardless of whether it was placed in the dark or exposed to day light samples stored at room temperature displayed stronger emission than that stored at 4 C. These results indicate that the MPS capped ZnS quantum dots can be handled under ambient condition without refrigeration. The ambient stability of MPS ZnS has the major advantage that they can be further modified for a variety of applications without their loss of photoluminescent properties.

MPA capped quantum dots were previously used to bind amine modified 1 m in diameter polystyrene spheres through peptide bonds. The carboxyl group of MPA on the CdS quantum dots surface was first activated by 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC and N hydrocylsulfo succinimide sulfo NHS . The spheres with amine groups were added to the activated quantum dot suspension. After incubation rinsing and centrifuging the mixture and after removing the supernatant which contained the unbound quantum dots and other chemicals the precipitate was collected and the suspensions were examined under the fluorescence microscope as shown in . is an optical micrograph of CdS quantum dots attached to microbeads in normal light. is an optical micrograph of CdS quantum dots attached to microbeads in UV light. Clusters of microbeads contain aggregates of quantum dots giving brighter image under UV light.

For more stable MPS capped quantum dots there are several approaches to fabricate the quantum dots decorated and antibody coated microspheres. In one approach avidin conjugated quantum dots were first synthesized using SMCC sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate as linker to bind MPS capped quantum dots to avidin. The avidin conjugated quantum dots were then coated on biotinylated polystyrene spheres. The number ratio between the quantum dots and polystyrene and their concentrations were varied in order to achieve dispersed antibody coated quantum dot microsphere suspensions.

Another approach involved spheres with amine surface groups where SMCC was added to the polystyrene suspension to facilitate the NHS ester to react with primary amines. After purifying the mixture to remove the excess SMCC by rinsing and centrifugation the precipitated polystyrene spheres were collected and mixed with MPS capped quantum dots.

A third approach involves spheres with carboxyl groups on their surface wherein sodium silicate was added to the MPS capped quantum dot suspension to form a silica layer. The silica coated quantum dots were then reacted with aminopropylsilane APS to modify the surface with primary amine groups. The reaction between amine and carboxyl groups resulted in the formation of quantum dot decorated and antibody coated microspheres. The conjugation of secondary antibody to microspheres utilizes the same surface chemistry employed in the immobilization of the primary antibody on the surface of sensor as described in Example 4.

It is envisioned that the sensor system of the present invention may be particularly useful for diagnosing breast cancer from a patient s blood sample. Because the sensor system of the present invention improves sensitivity by several orders of magnitude and is capable of verifying the detection results it may be possible to more successfully and more accurately detect breast cancer at an early stage when treatment is most effective. A sensor system for breast cancer detection is envisioned to comprise a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor PEMS having a primary antibody coating and polystyrene spheres decorated with quantum dots Q spheres Secondary antibodies will then be immobilized on the surface of the Q spheres to bind to the breast cancer markers.

One of the most promising biomarkers for identifying breast cancer is HER 2 a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family. 20 40 of breast cancers are HER 2 positive and over expression of this receptor is correlated with a poor prognosis. As no single specific breast cancer antigen has been found to date that is capable of identifying all breast cancer cases a panel of antibodies will be used which is expected to achieve at least a 95 detection rate for breast cancer. The panel of anti HER 2 scFv molecules will be isolated from two na ve human scFv phage display libraries. These scFv molecules are composed of variable light and variable heavy chains of antibody molecules thereby duplicating an antibody s antigen binding pocket. These scFv molecules are readily expressed from and can be modified e.g. with carboxy terminal residues to facilitate site specific coupling to a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor. The relatively small size of the secondary antibody coated microspheres about 25 kDa facilitates a dense distribution on a piezoelectric microcantilever surface. Panels of scFv molecules specific for a variety of human breast cancer antigens including HER 2 HER3 HER4 EGFR and the Mullerian Inhibiting Substance Type II receptor MISIIR have already been isolated and thus may provide suitable candidates for the present invention. Additional panels of scFv specific for additional breast cancer antigens e.g. CA 125 CEA CEA15.3 etc. may be isolated as the experiment progresses. Milligram quantities of recombinant HER 2 extracellular domain ECD for use in the selection of scFv molecules and in the development of the assay system may also be expressed.

Initial studies targeting HER 2 will use anti HER 2 scFv molecules H3 . This scFv has been previously successful in detecting nanogram quantities of recombinant HER 2 from solutions containing one milligram per milliliter of serum albumin from 1 40 serum . Secondary scFv and IgG candidates for conjugation to the Q spheres that do not block binding of H3 to HER 2 will then be identified. The secondary antibody candidates will be conjugated to the Q spheres and then re assayed so as to enable binding to the H3 HER 2 ECD complex. The candidate antibody that generates the greatest signal will be selected as the secondary antibody. Upon isolating and selecting the appropriate secondary antibody the effectiveness of the sensor system to detect HER 2 will be tested by comparing the detection sensitivity of a PEMS to that of a system including a PEMS and secondary antibody bound Q spheres.

The PEMS of the sensor system will be fabricated by two approaches. In one approach a PZT SiOsystem is fabricated according to the method shown in . Z. Shen W. Y. Shih and W. H. Shih Self Exciting Self Sensing PZT SiOPiezoelectric Microcantilever Sensors with Femtogram Hz Sensitivity 89 023506 2006 . Another approach involves the formation of lead magnesium niobate lead titanate PMN PT freestanding films followed by electroplating and wire saw cutting. J. A. Capobianco W. Y. Shih and W. H. Shih Methyltrimethoxysilane Insulated Piezoelectric Microcantilevers for Direct All Electrical Biodetection in Buffered Aqueous Solutions 77 125105 2006 . The experiment will also explore the use of laser cutting to fabricate PEMS of smaller dimensions. PEMS detection of cancer markers will be verified by imaging the antigens using Q spheres that have been conjugated with the secondary antibodies.

At a later stage the sensor system of the present invention including the antibody coated Q spheres will be used to detect the presence and concentration of HER 2 in serum. After detection a fluorescence microscope will be used to image the photoluminescence of the Q spheres. Q spheres that have been conjugated with secondary antibody will be first mixed with a serum that contains the HER 2 antigen. PEMS will then be immersed in the Q spheres antigen serum. The resonance frequency of PEMS will be monitored to study the enhancement effect due to the Q spheres. While not wishing to be bound by theory it is expected that the antigens will bind with the Q spheres in solution and then the antigen Q sphere complex will bind to the PEMS. These results will be compared with the results of the above mentioned same PEMS having no secondary antibody coated Q spheres in the same serum. Additionally to eliminate the nonspecific binding events the same detection with the same serum without the antigens will be performed. The difference in frequency change between the sample with antigen and that without antigen will provide the specific detection of antigens.

The ability of a PEMS coated with microspheres and a PEMS having no microspheres to detect HER 2 in low concentration solutions was investigated.

In comparative example A a PEMS was coated with scFv specific for HER 2 was tested. Sulfo SMCC was used as a linker for antibody immobilization. To effectively bind SMCC to scFv 5 mM SMCC was mixed with 400 nM scFv for 2 hours. The unreacted SMCC was removed by 4 repetitions of microcentrifugation with a 10 kDa filter. The MPS coated PEMS was then soaked in the scFv bound SMCC solution. The sulfhydryl of the MPS on the sensor surface reacted with the maleimide of the scFv bound SMCC to immobilize the scFv.

In this experiment a biotin avidin biotin sandwich scheme was used to immobilize the scFv. First MPS was coated on the surface of the PEMS by first soaking the PMN PT Cu PEMS in a 0.1 mM solution of MPS in ethanol for 30 min then in a 40 mM solution of MPS in ethanol titrated to pH 4.5 by acetic acid for 2 hours. Biotin was then attached to the sulfhydryl on the MPS by maleimide activated biotin Pierce . The maleimide was separated from the biotin by polyethylene glycol PEG . The MPS coated PEMS was soaked in a 5 mM 2.6 mg ml maleimide activated biotin solution in PBS for 2 hours and rinsed well with PBS to remove any excess biotin. The cantilever was then soaked in a 4 mg ml avidin solution. Next the scFv was then biotinylated with NHS Biotin Pierce . A 15 molar fold excess of the scFv 1 M was prepared and allowed to react at 4 C. for 3 hr. The excess biotin was then removed by microcentrifugation using a 10 k filter Millipore at 4000 RPM for 10 min. The retentate was then mixed with PBS and microcentrifuged again. The process was repeated 3 times. After the second spin the centrifuge began to warm up. The tubes were placed in the refrigerator and the final centrifugation was performed when the machine cooled to room temperature. The scFv was then immobilized on the PEMS surface by dipping the avidin coated PEMS in the biotinylated scFv solution. To block nonspecific binding the scFv immobilized PEMS was soaked in a 3 Bovine Serum Albumin BSA solution prepared in PBS. After blocking the PEMS was rinsed in a solution with 1 BSA and 0.1 TWEEN20. After rinsing and in between trials the PEMS was submerged in a diluted fetal bovine serum serum PBS 1 40 .

By comparison PEMS designed to bind microspheres specific for HER 2 Example 5 were also found to be effective for binding HER 2. Two PZT glass PEMS are used to demonstrate the ability of selectively binding polystyrene microspheres which have been coated with an antibody specific for HER 2. The PEMS was first insulated with MPS Sigma St. Louis Mo. using a solution method. First the cantilevers glass tip was submerged in a piranha solution two parts of 98 sulfuric acid Fisher Fair Lawn N.J. with one part of 30 hydrogen peroxide FisherBiotech Fair Lawn N.J. at 20 C. for 20 minutes to clean the glass surface. The cantilever tip was rinsed with deionized water and then with ethanol. The cantilevers were then totally submerged in a 1 MPS solution in ethanol titrated to a pH of 4.5 using acetic acid. The cantilevers were allowed to soak for a total of twelve hours.

The glass tips were then immobilized with different receptors. One cantilever was coated with anti Kirkegaard Perry Laboratory Gaithersburg Md. and the other was coated with an anti HER 2 single chain variable fragment scFv . The immobilization of these receptors was carried out under identical conditions using a heterobifunctional cross linker Sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate sulfo SMCC Pierce . A 2.8 M solution of receptor was activated with 50 molar fold excess SMCC for 1.5 hours at 4 C. Next the excess unreacted SMCC was removed through centrifugation using a 10K filtered centrifuge tube. The filtered retentate was then added to a conjugation buffer containing 5 mM EDTA. The MPS coated cantilever was first soaked in 5 mM EDTA in DI water for 20 minutes and then it was soaked in the activated receptor solution. EDTA functioned to chelate divalent metals thereby reducing disulfide formation.

Carboxylic acid terminated polystyrene beads were conjugated with Herceptin using carbodiimide chemistry. A stock solution containing 10beads ml was used. Each bead has an approximate area of 5 10m. The approximate area of each NHS molecule is 8 10m as a result 6 10molecules were needed. This requirement was sufficiently met by using 3 mM NHS and 5 mM EDC in an MES buffer for 25 minutes at room temperature. The excess unreacted NHS EDC was removed using a 300 K centrifugation filter. After activation the beads were mixed with Herceptin. The approximate area of each Herceptin molecule is 8 10m. As a result 6 10antibodies were needed to coat the surface of all the beads. A 100 fold excess of Herceptin was used. The activated bead Hercetpin solution was allowed to react for 2 hours at 4 C. Afterward the unbound Herceptin was removed using a 300 K centrifuge filter.

After immobilization the cantilevers were rinsed with PBS and then placed in the same 3.5 ml home built flow cell containing an 86 g ml solution of HER 2 ECD. The solution was flowed parallel to the face of the cantilever at a rate of 0.7 ml minute. The results of this experiment are depicted in . After 85 minutes the cantilever with the anti HER 2 scFv responded by shifting 300 Hz and the control cantilever did not change from its resonant frequency. The control cantilever was coated with an anti Salmonella antibody. Following the exposure to HER 2 the flow cell was rinsed with PBS which was circulated through the flow cell for 20 minutes to rinse the cantilever surface. Following the rinse polystyrene microbeads conjugated with Herceptin with bead concentration of 10 ml were added to the flow cell and recirculated for 60 minutes which caused a shift in resonant frequency of 600 Hz in the scFv coated cantilever while the control cantilever did not respond. While the resonance frequency shift due to the Herceptin beads was higher than that of the HER 2 detection it is not as high as expected possibly due to cross reactivity between scFv and Herceptin as was seen for example in .

Herceptin beads detection was carried out using sensors with HER 2 immobilized on the surface. To immobilize HER 2 on the sensor surface HER 2 was first activated in PBS with sulfo SMCC. An 88 g ml solution of HER 2 was activated with a 50 fold molar excess of SMCC for 1.5 hours at 4 C. Next the excess unreacted SMCC was removed through centrifugation using a 10 K filtered centrifuge tube. The filtered retentate was then added to a conjugation buffer containing 5 mM EDTA. The MPS coated cantilever was first soaked in 5 mM EDTA in DI water for 20 minutes and then it was soaked in the activated HER 2 solution for immobilization.

It is to be understood however that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of the invention the disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

