---

title: Magnifying the text of a link while still retaining browser function in the magnified display
abstract: A web browser magnifies the content of the whole page in memory and displays the relevant portion in a magnifier with hyperlinks. The web browser then maps the magnified display to the original document. Thus, manipulation of the mouse in the magnified display may result in an action with respect to the original document. The user may then select a link for navigation within the magnified display. Alternatively, the web browser may analyze the original web page and construct magnifier contents on the basis of either the document object model, extensible markup language (XML), or hypertext markup language (HTML) representation of the magnified portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08112705&OS=08112705&RS=08112705
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08112705
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080728
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 820 511 filed Mar. 29 2001 status allowed.

The present invention relates to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and apparatus for managing world wide web documents in a data processing system. Still more particularly the present invention provides a method apparatus and program for magnifying the text of a link while retaining browser functionality in the magnified display.

The worldwide network of computers commonly known as the Internet has seen explosive growth in the last several years. Mainly this growth has been fueled by the introduction and widespread use of so called web browsers which enable simple graphical user interface based access to network servers which support documents formatted as so called web pages. These web pages are versatile and customized by authors. For example web pages may mix text and graphic images. A web page also may include fonts of varying sizes.

A browser is a program that is executed on a graphical user interface GUI . The browser allows a user to seamlessly load documents from the Internet and display them by means of the GUI. These documents are commonly formatted using markup language protocols such as hypertext markup language HTML . Portions of text and images within a document are delimited by indicators which affect the format for display. In HTML documents the indicators are referred to as tags. Tags may include links also referred to as hyperlinks to other pages. The browser gives some means of viewing the contents of web pages or nodes and of navigating from one web page to another in response to selection of the links.

The versatility and customization of web pages however are sometimes an impediment to users. Some web pages may be designed with small fonts to accommodate more content. For example a portal may be designed to provide access to information and services such as news shopping and stock quotes from a wide variety of sources. This results in a very busy page with small fonts and many links to navigate.

Visually impaired users may find it difficult to locate links in documents with small print. Other users may have difficulty with fine motor movements and cannot manipulate a mouse pointer with accuracy thus making it difficult to select links in a crowded portion of the page. Magnifiers exist that allow a user to select a portion of a web page and generate a magnified display of that portion. However after a link is located in the magnified display the user must return to the browser to locate and select the link. Therefore a user with visual impairment or difficulty with fine motor movements still faces the problem of locating and selecting the link in the original display.

Thus it would be advantageous to provide a magnified display while retaining the functionality of the web browser.

The present invention provides a web browser that magnifies the content of the whole page in memory and displays the relevant portion in a magnifier with hyperlinks. The web browser then maps the magnified display to the original document. Thus manipulation of the mouse in the magnified display may result in an action with respect to the original document. For example the user may select a portion of text to be copied and pasted into another application. The user may also select a link for navigation within the magnified display. Alternatively the web browser may analyze the original web page and construct magnifier contents on the basis of either the document object model extensible markup language XML or hypertext markup language HTML representation of the magnified portion.

With reference now to the figures depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system is a network of computers in which the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system contains a network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example a server is connected to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and also are connected to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients . Clients and are clients to server . Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown. In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server such as server in is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors and connected to system bus . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to system bus is memory controller cache which provides an interface to local memory . I O bus bridge is connected to system bus and provides an interface to I O bus . Memory controller cache and I O bus bridge may be integrated as depicted.

Peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridge connected to I O bus provides an interface to PCI local bus . A number of modems may be connected to PCI bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors. Communications links to network computers in may be provided through modem and network adapter connected to PCI local bus through add in boards.

Additional PCI bus bridges and provide interfaces for additional PCI buses and from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner data processing system allows connections to multiple network computers. A memory mapped graphics adapter and hard disk may also be connected to I O bus as depicted either directly or indirectly.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. For example other peripheral devices such as optical disk drives and the like also may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

The data processing system depicted in may be for example an IBM RISC System 6000 system a product of International Business Machines Corporation in Armonk N.Y. running the Advanced Interactive Executive AIX operating system.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a data processing system is depicted in which the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a client computer. Data processing system employs a peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port AGP and Industry Standard Architecture ISA may be used. Processor and main memory are connected to PCI local bus through PCI bridge . PCI bridge also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for processor . Additional connections to PCI local bus may be made through direct component interconnection or through add in boards. In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter SCSI host bus adapter and expansion bus interface are connected to PCI local bus by direct component connection. In contrast audio adapter graphics adapter and audio video adapter are connected to PCI local bus by add in boards inserted into expansion slots. Expansion bus interface provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter modem and additional memory . Small computer system interface SCSI host bus adapter provides a connection for hard disk drive tape drive and CD ROM drive . Typical PCI local bus implementations will support three or four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Windows 2000 which is available from Microsoft Corporation. An object oriented programming system such as Java may run in conjunction with the operating system and provide calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. Instructions for the operating system the object oriented operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash ROM or equivalent nonvolatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

As another example data processing system may be a stand alone system configured to be bootable without relying on some type of network communication interface whether or not data processing system comprises some type of network communication interface. As a further example data processing system may be a Personal Digital Assistant PDA device which is configured with ROM and or flash ROM in order to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data.

The depicted example in and above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example data processing system also may be a notebook computer or hand held computer in addition to taking the form of a PDA. Data processing system also may be a kiosk or a Web appliance.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a web browser running on a client such as clients in magnifies the content of the whole page in memory and displays the relevant portion in a magnifier with hyperlinks. The web browser then maps the magnified display to the display space of the original document. Thus manipulation of the mouse in the magnified display may result in an action with respect to the original document. For example the user may select a portion of text to be copied and pasted into another application. The user may also select a link for navigation within the magnified display. Alternatively the web browser may analyze the original web page and construct magnifier contents on the basis of either the document object model extensible markup language XML or hypertext markup language HTML representation of the magnified portion.

An example of a screen of display of a browser window is shown in in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The screen comprises window including a title bar which may display the name of the application program. Title bar also includes a control box which produces a drop down menu not shown when selected with the mouse and minimize maximize or restore and close buttons. The minimize and maximize or restore buttons and determine the manner in which the program window is displayed. In this example the close button produces an exit command when selected. The drop down menu produced by selecting control box includes commands corresponding to minimize maximize or restore and close buttons as well as move and resize commands.

Browser window also includes a menu bar . Menus to be selected from menu bar may include File Edit View Insert Format Tools Window and Help. However menu bar may include fewer or more menus as understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art. The browser window also includes toolbar with buttons used to navigate web pages. The buttons may include but are not limited to Back Forward Stop Refresh Home and Print. 

The browser window includes a display area in which the contents of a document are displayed. The document may be retrieved from a server such as server in . The document may also be retrieved from another location such as a hard disk in the client computer. As seen in a web page may contain many links displayed in a small font. Typically links are displayed with underlining however other mechanisms may be used to differentiate hyperlinks within a document. For example links may be displayed in a preselected color or the mouse cursor may change when moved over a hyperlink. Clusters of small links may present problems for users with visual impairment or difficulty with fine motor movements.

With reference now to an example screen of display of a browser window with a magnifier is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The screen comprises window including display area . The screen also includes a magnifier window that provides a magnified display of a selected portion of the original document. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the magnifier window retains browser functionality for the magnified portion.

Turning next to a block diagram of a browser program is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. A browser is an application used to navigate or view information or data in a distributed database such as the Internet or the World Wide Web.

In this example browser includes a user interface which is a graphical user interface GUI that allows the user to interface or communicate with browser . This interface provides for selection of various functions through menus and allows for navigation through navigation . For example menu may allow a user to perform various functions such as saving a file opening a new window displaying a history and entering a URL. Navigation allows for a user to navigate various pages and to select web sites for viewing. For example navigation may allow a user to see a previous page or a subsequent page relative to the present page. Preferences may be set through preferences .

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention user interface provides a magnified display through magnifier . The magnifier may be invoked through commands or menus such as a right click menu or menus in . Also toolbar in may include a button that may be selected to invoke the magnifier.

Communications is the mechanism with which browser receives documents and other resources from a network such as the Internet. Further communications is used to send or upload documents and resources onto a network. In the depicted example communication uses hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Other protocols may be used depending on the implementation. Documents that are received by browser are processed by language interpretation which includes an HTML unit and a JavaScript unit . Language interpretation will process a document for presentation on graphical display . In particular HTML statements are processed by HTML unit for presentation while JavaScript statements are processed by JavaScript unit .

Graphical display includes layout unit rendering unit and window management . These units are involved in presenting web pages to a user based on results from language interpretation . Magnifier communicates with graphical display to render the magnified portion of the document in the magnified display.

Browser is presented as an example of a browser program in which the present invention may be embodied. Browser is not meant to imply architectural limitations to the present invention. Presently available browsers may include additional functions not shown or may omit functions shown in browser . A browser may be any application that is used to search for and display content on a distributed data processing system. Browser make be implemented using know browser applications such Netscape Navigator or Microsoft Internet Explorer. Netscape Navigator is available from Netscape Communications Corporation while Microsoft Internet Explorer is available from Microsoft Corporation.

With reference now to a block diagram of a memory configuration for a browser with a magnifier is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Web browser displays a document and magnifier provides a magnified display of a selected portion of the document. Memory includes storage for regular web browser and associated data representation and storage for web browser display memory. Magnifier displays a selected portion from display memory .

Mapping provides a map between the magnified display area and a corresponding display area for the original document. This magnified area may be generated as a bit blit reading a small area from the video RAM pixel by pixel and repopulating the adjacent cells of the expanded field using whatever magnification factor is desired. For example the magnifier may create an expanded field with a 1 4 factor or 1 pixel repopulated to 4 pixels for a 2 enlargement. Thus the existing RAM may support the rendering of the magnified display and mapping maps mouse events in the magnified display to the corresponding coordinates in the normal display space.

Mapping may also provide an imagemap between the displayed portion in the magnifier with corresponding data in the original document from data representation . An imagemap is a single picture image that is logically separated into areas each of which is used to select a different option or display a different message when clicked. Imagemaps are widely used on the Web to provide a navigation bar to link to other topics or pages on a site. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the magnified display is mapped to the original document to form an imagemap with areas used to select options corresponding to the original document.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the web browser may analyze the original web page and construct magnifier contents on the basis of either the document object model DOM extensible markup language XML or hypertext markup language HTML representation of the magnified portion. DOM is a common application programming interface API for accessing HTML and XML documents from a Web browser. DOM was developed to formalize Dynamic HTML which allows animation interaction and dynamic updating of Web pages. DOM provides a language and platform neutral object model for Web pages but because it deals with document structures in general DOM may also be used by any application that accesses documents.

With reference to an example document object model for a document with a magnified portion is illustrated in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Document object model comprises a tree structure of nodes representing the document. Each node has a number of attributes. For example a node may be text and the attributes may be fontsize fontcolor and textstring. 

DOM includes node with subnodes and . Nodes may represent a magnified portion of a document. When a portion of the document is selected for magnified display the magnifier may be generated based on the corresponding portion of the DOM. For example if node is a text node and the original attribute values are 12 point font red and text News the values may be adjusted to 24 point font red and text News for the magnified display. Thus the magnified portion presents a portion of the tree structure and retains full browser functionality. The DOM illustrated in is exemplary and the present invention may be implemented in a variety of ways as will be readily apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

With reference to a flowchart illustrating the operation of a web browser that maps a magnified display to the original document is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The process begins and a determination is made as to whether an exit condition exists step . An exit condition may exist when a user closes the browser window or exits through a menu command. If an exit condition exists the process ends.

If an exit condition does not exist in step a determination is made as to whether a portion is selected for magnification step . If a portion is not selected for magnification a determination is made as to whether another action is requested through the user interface step . If another action is requested the process performs the other browser action step and returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists. An action in step may be selection of a link within the normal browser display in which case the process retrieves and displays a new document. If another action is not requested in step the process returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists.

Returning to step if a portion of the document is selected for magnification the process magnifies the selected portion from display memory step and maps the magnified portion to the original document content step . Next a determination is made as to whether an action is requested within the magnifier interface step . If an action is requested within the magnifier interface a determination is made as to whether the action is a selection of a link step . If a link is not selected the process performs the action with respect to the original document and returns to step to determine whether an action is requested within the magnifier interface.

If the action is the selection of a link in step the process retrieves and displays the new document step closes the magnifier display step and returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists.

Returning to step if an action is not requested in the magnifier interface a determination is made as to whether a request to close the magnifier is received step . If a request to close the magnifier is received the process closes the magnifier step and returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists. If a request to close the magnifier is not received in step the process returns to step to determine whether an action is requested in the magnifier interface.

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating the operation of a web browser that generates a magnified display using the document object model of the original document is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The process begins and a determination is made as to whether an exit condition exists step . An exit condition may exist when a user closes the browser window or exits through a menu command. If an exit condition exists the process ends.

If an exit condition does not exist in step a determination is made as to whether a portion is selected for magnification step . If a portion is not selected for magnification a determination is made as to whether another action is requested through the user interface step . If another action is requested the process performs the other browser action step and returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists. An action in step may be selection of a link within the normal browser display in which case the process retrieves and displays a new document. If another action is not requested in step the process returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists.

Returning to step if a portion of the document is selected for magnification the process creates the magnified display using the document object model of the original document step . Next a determination is made as to whether an action is requested within the magnifier interface step . If an action is requested within the magnifier interface a determination is made as to whether the action is a selection of a link step . If a link is not selected the process performs the action with respect to the original document and returns to step to determine whether an action is requested within the magnifier interface.

If the action is the selection of a link in step the process retrieves and displays the new document step closes the magnifier display step and returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists.

Returning to step if an action is not requested in the magnifier interface a determination is made as to whether a request to close the magnifier is received step . If a request to close the magnifier is received the process closes the magnifier step and returns to step to determine whether an exit condition exists. If a request to close the magnifier is not received in step the process returns to step to determine whether an action is requested in the magnifier interface.

Thus the present invention solves the disadvantages of the prior art by providing a web browser that magnifies the content of the whole page in memory and displays the relevant portion in a magnifier with hyperlinks. The web browser maps the magnified display to the original document. Thus manipulation of the mouse in the magnified display may result in an action with respect to the original document. The user may also select a link for navigation within the magnified display. Alternatively the web browser may analyze the original web page and construct magnifier contents on the basis of either the document object model XML or HTML representation of the magnified portion. Thus the user need not repeatedly magnify the document and return to the original display to select links. Furthermore changing font sizes within the entirety of the original display to enlarge text may adversely effect the layout of the page. Using the present invention the user may select links or perform other browser functions within the magnified display.

It is important to note that while the present invention has been described in the context of a fully functioning data processing system those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the processes of the present invention are capable of being distributed in the form of a computer readable medium of instructions and a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media actually used to carry out the distribution. Examples of computer readable media include recordable type media such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a RAM CD ROMS DVD ROMS and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links wired or wireless communications links using transmission forms such as for example radio frequency and light wave transmissions. The computer readable media may take the form of coded formats that are decoded for actual use in a particular data processing system.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

