---

title: Interactive product maps
abstract: A method, system, and computer program product present products in an interactive environment. A determination is made that a user is accessing at least a portion of a given level in a set of levels of the interactive environment using at least a zoom operation on at least a portion of the interactive environment. The zoom operation dynamically changes a product information detail level of the interactive environment to correspond to one level in the set of levels. Each subsequent level in the set of levels is associated with a set of more detailed product information than a previous level. A set of product information associated with the given level and the portion of the given level is accessed based on the portion of the given level being accessed by the user. The set of product information that has been accessed is displayed to the user in the interactive environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08200540&OS=08200540&RS=08200540
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08200540
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
The present invention generally relates to the field of product information management and more particularly relates to providing an interactive product mapping environment with zoom pan features.

E commerce has drastically increased in recent years. Users are able to purchase a wide variety of products from many different vendors. However most on line shopping environments require users to click through numerous pages to interact with the environment and locate products. In many instances this is time consuming and cumbersome. Additionally many on line shopping environments do not provide mashup capabilities that can offer a more user friendly experience. Therefore a need exists to overcome these problems.

In one embodiment a method for presenting products in an interactive environment is disclosed. The method includes determining that a user is accessing at least a portion of a given level in a set of levels of the interactive environment using at least a zoom operation on at least a portion of the interactive environment. The zoom operation dynamically changes a product information detail level of the interactive environment to correspond to one level in the set of levels. Each subsequent level in the set of levels is associated with a set of more detailed product information than a previous level in the set of levels. A set of product information associated with the given level and the portion of the given level is accessed based on the portion of the given level being accessed by the user. The set of product information that has been accessed is displayed to the user in the interactive environment.

In another embodiment an information processing system for presenting products in an interactive environment is disclosed. The information processing system includes a memory and a processor that is communicatively coupled to the memory. The information processing system also includes an interactive product environment that is communicatively coupled to the memory and the processor. The interactive product environment is adapted to determine that a user is accessing at least a portion of a given level in a set of levels of the interactive environment using at least a zoom operation on at least a portion of the interactive environment. The zoom operation dynamically changes a product information detail level of the interactive environment to correspond to one level in the set of levels. Each subsequent level in the set of levels is associated with a set of more detailed product information than a previous level in the set of levels. A set of product information associated with the given level and the portion of the given level is accessed based on the portion of the given level being accessed by the user. The set of product information that has been accessed is displayed to the user in the interactive environment.

In yet another embodiment a computer program product for presenting products in an interactive environment is disclosed. The computer program product includes instructions for determining that a user is accessing at least a portion of a given level in a set of levels of the interactive environment using at least a zoom operation on at least a portion of the interactive environment. The zoom operation dynamically changes a product information detail level of the interactive environment to correspond to one level in the set of levels. Each subsequent level in the set of levels is associated with a set of more detailed product information than a previous level in the set of levels. A set of product information associated with the given level and the portion of the given level is accessed based on the portion of the given level being accessed by the user. The set of product information that has been accessed is displayed to the user in the interactive environment.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples of the invention which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically.

According to one embodiment of the present invention as shown in a general overview of an operating environment is illustrated. In particular shows an operating environment for providing an interactive product map environment. The operating environment in one embodiment includes one or more information processing systems product databases mashable component databases and user systems . Each of these systems is communicatively coupled to one another via one or more networks . The network s in one embodiment are wired and or wireless networks.

The information processing system in one embodiment includes an interactive product environment . The interactive product environment takes in various data feeds such as inventory price user ratings discounts and the like and correlates the data feeds to individual products and or product categories. The mashups created by correlating the data feeds with products product categories are then visually displayed to the user on a product map included within the interactive product environment The interactive product environment includes an information manager a user interaction manager a zoom module and a pan module . The interactive product environment in one embodiment is a website or web application that provides a zoomable and pannable interactive substrate that displays a hierarchy of products available in a store or from a group of stores . The ability to zoom pan within the environment also allows a using accessing the environment via a portable device to more effectively browse the environment.

The interactive product environment can greatly enhance a shopper s experience and efficiency in obtaining information about products. Users can search for products by several parameters and narrow down choices for comparison. Users can also contribute their feedback and ratings on products that can be plotted on the interactive substrate and then searched by ratings tags etc.

The interactive environment can also be used by store owners to visualize data of interest such as sales figures and inventory. Suppliers can also quickly see the sales and stock quantities in different stores and adjust supply chains accordingly. The visualization can be rearranged dynamically based on the order of classification. For example one order may use product type as the top level classifier whereas a different order may use manufacturer as the top level classifier. The interactive product environment is discussed in greater detail below. The interactive product environment and its components are discussed in greater detail below.

The product database includes product information that is displayed by the information manager in the environment based on the current zoom level or pan position of the environment . When a user performs a zoom operation a given level of a product hierarchy is displayed where a one zoom level displays the most generic level e.g. the least detailed level of the product hierarchy whereas a subsequent zoom level displays a more detailed level of the product hierarchy. The product information is discussed in greater detail below. The mashable component database includes mashable components widgets . The widgets can be wired together or wired to other components within the environment to create a mashable product map substrate presented to users in the environment . The widgets and mashable aspect of the environment are discussed in greater detail below. The user systems each include an interactive product environment interface . The interface can be in one embodiment a web browser or an application presenting a GUI to the user that allows the user to interact with the environment .

As discussed above the interactive product map environment provides a zoomable and pannable interactive substrate that displays a hierarchy of products available in a store or from a group of stores . The interactive product map environment includes a zoomable pannable and reconfigurable product map substrate that is used for searching products. In one embodiment an at a glance view of several products is displayed for a given category. For example instead of having to go to Maytag Kenmore Bosch Viking Miele store fronts the user is able to view all these products on one interactive canvas i.e. the interactive environment . Zooming in on the environment triggers relevant products to come into view. Zooming out give a birds eye view of the product landscape without overwhelming the consumer with mundane details. Panning left right up down causes additional information to be displayed in the environment based on the current zoom level.

Zooming into a second level displays products types such Cameras as shown by nodes and . Zooming into a third level displays even further product types such Camera Digital SLR as shown by nodes and . Zooming into a fourth level displays products under the Camera Digital SLR type such as Nikon D300 as shown by node . Further zoom levels can display even more detailed information such as product specifications as shown by node . It should be noted that as a user performs a zoom operation each of the node levels of the hierarchical tree are populated with the corresponding product information . For example when a user zooms into level displaying product types product information corresponding to the product types is retrieved and displayed to the user.

The information manager displays information in the environment based on the current zoom level and or panning position. For example as shown in a user is zoomed into level of the environment . Therefore the information manager selects product information from the product database associated with level . In this example the selected information is product categories. In this example the product information manager also displays a subsequent or deeper level that includes a plurality of product types for a given product category. For example under the Electronics and Computers category a set of product categories such as Cameras Camcorders and Navigation is shown.

As discussed above a user is also able to pan the environment left right up and or down. For example a user can pan the environment to the left thereby removing at least a portion of the information displayed in and causing new product categories and product types to be displayed. Additionally the information manager can also display icons and or images for product categories as shown in . This improves visualization for the user. The information manager can dynamically select which icons images to display based on product cost popularity advertising incentives user s geography time of viewing and the like. The icons images can also be customized based on the user.

As the user zooms further into the environment more detailed information is displayed to the user as shown in . For example in the example of the user interaction manager has determined that the user has zoomed into the Electronics And Computers category which is level of the hierarchical structure in this example. Accordingly the information manager retrieves more detailed information for this level and displays the more detailed information to the user. For example additional product types such as Phones are displayed to the user and available manufactures for each product type. Also any images that were previously displayed such as image are now presented in a larger size to the user.

As can be seen from more product categories existed under the Electronics And Computers category than what is displayed in . This is because displays a more zoomed in view than . Therefore a user can pan the environment to the left and or right and or up and down to display the additional categories. Furthermore with respect to the manufacturers displayed to a user the information manager may select only the most popular brand to display at a higher zoom level. As a user zooms into a lower level such as a product level additional manufacturers can be displayed. However other factors such as advertising incentives can cause the information manager to select particular manufacturers to be displayed as well.

The information manager displays a plurality of manufactures and a more detailed product type associated with the parent product type. For example as discussed above the user zoomed into the Digital Camera category . Therefore the information manager displayed more detailed product types such as SLR and Non SLR for the Digital Camera product type.

Also as discussed above the user can pan the environment to display additional products cameras in this example . However if more than one product type such as SLR and Non SLR are displayed such as shown in a user can pan within that particular product type. For example a user can pan within the SLR product type while the Non SLR products remain stationary. Also a user can select a portion of the display to zoom into or out of. For example a user can select an area by drawing a rectangle or any other type of boundary indicator on the display area. The user is then able to pan into and or out of the portion of the display area that is within the boundary indicator created by the user. The remaining portion of the display area that is outside of the boundary indicator remains at the current zoom pan level.

For example if the current zoom level displays product categories such as Electronics and Appliances the user can select a portion of the display such as an area around and including the Electronics text widget. The user is then able to zoom pan within the selected area. Therefore the user can zoom into deeper levels within the selected area such as electronic product types such as computers and cameras or specific electronic products such as a specific digital camera. The area outside of the selected area remains at the current zoom level which in this example is product categories.

Additionally a user is able to change the current view of the interactive product environment . For example assume that a current view displays a set of levels in a first order such as a first level comprising product categories and then a second level comprising stores that sell items under those categories. A user can submit a request to the interactive product environment to change the current view of the interactive environment. The interactive environment the dynamically adjusts in response to receiving the request the current view of the by associating the set of levels with a second order. For example the interactive environment can now first display the stores and then the product categories of items that each store sells. This new view is then displayed to the user in the interactive environment .

Furthermore the interactive product environment can be configured to allow a user to enter a review or rate the product directly on the environment as shown in . For example shows a review entered by a user directly on the environment without having to be directed to another webpage. Similarly user ratings inventory information sales information and the like can be displayed for each product as shown in . Also a user can select various products for comparison using the panning feature discussed above. For example a user can select a first product and then pan left right up and or down to find another product to compare. The panning ability is advantageous because a user can identify products that are not currently being displayed.

As discussed above the information manager retrieves product information from the product database based on the current zoom level and or pan position of the environment . In addition a user can apply various filters that filter the information being displayed. For example a user can apply a filter of Canon Cost 

The interactive product environment can also organize information on different axes than shown in . For example shows the interactive product environment with product categories as the highest level and stores providing those categories as the next lower level. This allows a user to search for products by store as compared to having to search a store. As a user zooms into a lower level i.e. a more detailed level as shown in more detailed information is displayed about the stores. For example shows that the user has zoomed into the Electronics and Computers category. Therefore a plurality of stores that have electronics and computers are displayed with a set of product types matching that category.

In another embodiment the interactive environment provide mashup capabilities comprising a plurality of mashable widgets to offer the functionality discussed above. A mashup is a lightweight web application that is created by combining information or capabilities from more than one existing source to deliver new functions insights. Mashups typically mash or remix information from multiple sources to create a new feed or a new application that presents information in a single graphical interface. Stated differently a mashup is a type of situational application that is comprised of two or more disparate components that have been connected to create a new integrated experience. Mashups can be data level mashups or even visual mashups. Mashups can integrate content such static content e.g. a Web page with dynamic content such as a SOAP or Representational State Transfer REST service or RSS feed.

Widgets are software components that provide access normally coarse grained to one or more services or content information. Stated differently a widget is a small portable application or piece of dynamic content that can easily be placed into a Web page or an embedded browser within a rich client. Widgets can be written in any language JavaScript Java .NET PHP and more or can be a simple HTML fragment. Widgets that pass events can be wired together to create mashups. Widgets are called different names by different vendors for example gadgets blocks and flakes.

Widgets tend to be designed with a focus on consumption and customization to ensure they are extremely flexible as one of the basic tenets of Web 2.0 is that you cannot anticipate how your content will be used. Widgets can be both visual in that they render visual content such as a chart or non visual in that they provide some form of discrete function or access to a service . The interactive product environment can be comprised of a plurality of widgets for providing zooming panning features inventory information sales information user review feedback features and information and the like.

The information manger at step displays the set of product information that has been accessed to the user in the interactive environment . The user interaction manager at step determines if the user has accessed a new portion of the current level e.g. user has performed a pan operation in the level . If the result of this determination is positive the information manager at step accesses based on the new portion and the given level a new set of product information. The control flow returns to step where the new information set displayed to the user in the interactive environment . If the result of this determination is negative the user interaction manager at step determines if the user has accessed a new given level e.g. has performed a zoom operation .

If the result of this determination is negative the user interaction manager continues to monitor for a portion changed and or a new level being accessed. If the result of this determination is positive the control flows to step where the information manager accesses a new set of data which is more detailed than the previous level based on the new level being accessed and the portion of the new level being accessed.

In one embodiment of the present invention the computing system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus crossover bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it becomes apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the relevant art s how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or computer architectures.

The computing system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer for display on the display unit . The computing system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory as well as various caches and auxiliary memory as are normally found in computer systems. The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive and the like. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a manner well known to those having ordinary skill in the art.

Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk a compact disc magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As are appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer readable medium having stored therein computer software and or data. The computer readable medium may include non volatile memory such as ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. Additionally a computer medium may include for example volatile storage such as RAM buffers cache memory and network circuits. Furthermore the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

In alternative embodiments the secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into the computing system . Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computing system .

The computing system in this example includes a communications interface that acts as an input and output and allows software and data to be transferred between the computing system and external devices or access points via a communications path . Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card or Wireless networking cards a communications port such as but not limited to Universal Serial Bus ports and Bluetooth a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be for example electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . The signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path i.e. channel . The channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link and or other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium computer usable medium computer readable medium computer readable storage product and computer program storage product are used to generally refer to media such as main memory and secondary memory removable storage drive and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . The computer program products are means for providing software to the computer system. The computer readable medium allows the computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium.

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the various embodiments of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the computer system.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments and it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

