---

title: Azimuth measuring apparatus and method
abstract: An apparatus for measuring the azimuth of a tube having a bore axis includes a centering mandrel having a longitudinal axis; a flexible member for defining a bore axis projection of the bore axis; a tensioner fixed to one end of the flexible member, and a pair of adjusters connected to the tensioner, the adjusters for moving the tensioner along a respective pair of axes that are perpendicular to the bore axis projection, the axes of the adjusters being mutually perpendicular.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07665218&OS=07665218&RS=07665218
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07665218
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080326
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 915 283 filed on May 1 2007 which application is hereby incorporated by reference.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to measuring devices and in particular to devices for measuring azimuth.

Verifying the pointing accuracy of an artillery cannon mortar tube or other equipment in an engineering environment has been and continues to be a problem. A theodolite has been used to measure the azimuth of an artillery cannon mortar tube or other equipment. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 626 issued on Jul. 6 1993 to Bowers discloses another arrangement for measuring the azimuth of a tube.

Shortcomings of these approaches are the inability to quantify or calibrate the apparatus and to establish or remove bias from the measurement. Additionally the use of an optical instrument such as a theodolite to align to a projection of a tube axis is a subjective process and highly dependent upon the skill of the theodolite operator.

It is an object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for measuring the azimuth of a tube.

A first aspect of the invention is an apparatus for measuring the azimuth of a tube having a bore axis the apparatus comprising a centering mandrel having a longitudinal axis a flexible member for defining a bore axis projection of the bore axis a tensioner fixed to one end of the flexible member the tensioner including a support point for the flexible member the support point lying on a longitudinal axis of the centering mandrel a support structure comprising bottom and top plates connected with support members the tensioner being fixed to the top plate the centering mandrel being fixed to the bottom plate another end of the flexible member being fixed to the bottom plate at a point where the longitudinal axis of the centering mandrel intersects the bottom plate and a pair of adjusters connected to the tensioner the adjusters for moving the tensioner along a respective pair of axes that are perpendicular to the bore axis projection the respective pair of axes of the adjusters being mutually perpendicular.

A second aspect of the invention is a method of measuring the azimuth of a tube having a bore axis the method comprising providing the apparatus of the first aspect of the invention inserting the centering mandrel into the tube using one s eye determining a circumferential location around the apparatus wherein the flexible member appears vertical measuring the azimuth from the circumferential location to the tube and determining the azimuth of the tube by adding 180 degrees to or subtracting 180 degrees from the azimuth measured from the circumferential location to the tube.

Calibrating the apparatus may include inserting the centering mandrel into a tube having a known angle of elevation viewing the flexible member with an optical instrument using the adjusters moving the flexible member to coincide with the known angle rotating the apparatus 180 degrees in the vertical tube viewing the flexible member with the optical instrument and for a second time using the adjusters to move the flexible member to coincide with the known angle.

A third aspect of the invention is an apparatus according to the first aspect of the invention and further including a second flexible member and a plumb bob the second flexible member being attached at one end to the tensioner and at another end to the plumb bob.

A fourth aspect of the invention is a method of measuring the azimuth of a tube having a bore axis the method comprising providing the apparatus of the third aspect of the invention inserting the centering mandrel into the tube using one s eye determining a circumferential location around the apparatus wherein the first and second flexible members coincide measuring the azimuth from the circumferential location to the tube and determining the azimuth of the tube by adding 180 degrees to or subtracting 180 degrees from the azimuth measured from the circumferential location to the tube.

A fifth aspect of the invention is a method of measuring the azimuth of a tube having a bore axis the method comprising providing the apparatus of the first aspect of the invention inserting the centering mandrel into the tube using an optical instrument having a vertical reference reticle determining a circumferential location around the apparatus wherein the flexible member coincides with the vertical reference reticle measuring the azimuth from the circumferential location to the tube and determining the azimuth of the tube by adding 180 degrees to or subtracting 180 degrees from the azimuth measured from the circumferential location to the tube.

The fifth aspect may further comprise after determining the azimuth of the tube rotating the apparatus 180 degrees in the tube using the optical instrument having the vertical reference reticle determining a second circumferential location around the apparatus wherein the flexible member coincides with the vertical reference reticle measuring the azimuth from the second circumferential location to the tube determining a second azimuth of the tube by adding 180 degrees to or subtracting 180 degrees from the azimuth measured from the second circumferential location to the tube and averaging the azimuth and the second azimuth.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention is useful for example for measuring the azimuth of an artillery cannon mortar gun tube or other equipment. The inventive apparatus can be inexpensively fabricated its calibration may be easily verified and if needed it may be re calibrated in a field environment. The only critical tolerances are associated with the centering mandrel being able to accurately locate the centerline of the bore axis and the attachment point of the bore axis projection member to the mandrel. The external portions of the invention may be constructed to lesser tolerances with the major requirement being that it remains as rigid as possible to minimize flexing and thereby minimize the need for recalibration.

One advantage of the invention over the Bowers device described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 626 is that the invention may be rotated 180 degrees. Rotating the fixture through 180 degrees and then viewing the fixture allows misalignment of the bore axis projection member to be quantified and or removed by means of an adjustment mechanism. Another advantage over the Bowers device is that the bore axis projection member may be used without the need for a plumb bob.

Apparatus further includes a support structure comprising bottom and top plates connected with support members . The tensioner is fixed to the top plate . The centering mandrel is fixed to the bottom plate . Another end of the flexible member is fixed to the bottom plate at a point where the longitudinal axis of the centering mandrel intersects the bottom plate . A pair of adjusters are connected to the tensioner for moving the tensioner along a respective pair of axes that are perpendicular to the bore axis projection. The axes of the adjusters are mutually perpendicular.

The centering mandrel is centered in bore . The mandrel comprises a plurality of fixed lobes arranged radially from the longitudinal axis of the mandrel . Preferably at least three lobes are present at a single axial position on the longitudinal axis . The lobes contact the interior bore wall and are dimensioned such that they center the mandrel and align it with the bore axis . At least the portion of the lobe that contacts the interior bore wall may be made of a non marring material such as brass. The non marring material will not score the interior bore wall. The portion of the lobe comprising the non marring material may be made removable from the remainder of the lobe to facilitate fabrication.

Tubes with different inside diameters may require different size lobes . The lobes may be removably fixed to the mandrel with for example set screws not shown . One or more lobes may include a spring or spring loaded plunger that contacts the interior wall of the bore so that the spring force maintains contact of the fixed lobes with the bore wall. Preferably a second set of lobes are included at a location that is axially displaced from the first set of lobes to thereby maintain the axis of the mandrel coaxial with the bore axis .

Centering mandrel supports the bottom plate . The support members extend from the bottom plate to the top plate . Support members are roughly parallel to the axis of the mandrel . The bottom plate contains a unique point that lies on the axis of the mandrel and on the bore axis . From this unique point one end of flexible member is attached. Flexible member extends to the top plate . The top plate supports the adjustment mechanisms . Adjustment mechanisms may be used to regulate the position of the member in two orthogonal axes that are mutually perpendicular to the bore axis and to each other. The adjustment mechanisms permit alignment of the member with the projection of the bore axis . This alignment allows one to calibrate the apparatus .

For calibration the apparatus may be placed in the bore of a tube or fixture of which the axis is at a known angle of elevation. As an example of calibration the tube axis will be vertically aligned that is the axis is ninety degrees from the horizontal. The flexible member is viewed with a leveled optical instrument of known accuracy such as a theodolite. The adjuster is used to move the member to the left or right with respect to the line of sight from the optical instrument until the member is coincident with the vertical reticle line of the optical instrument. The apparatus is then rotated 180 degrees about the bore axis and the position of the flexible member is again adjusted left or right using the adjuster until coincidence of the member and the vertical reticle of the optical instrument is achieved.

Then the apparatus is rotated 90 degrees about the bore axis and the position of the flexible member is adjusted left or right using the adjuster until coincidence of the member and the vertical reticle of the optical instrument is achieved. The apparatus is further rotated another 180 degrees about the bore axis and the position of the flexible member is again adjusted left or right using the adjuster until coincidence of the member and the vertical reticle of the optical instrument is achieved.

To verify that the apparatus has no bias apparatus may be rotated in the same direction in additional 90 degree increments and the flexible member again checked for coincidence. If a misalignment is now detected the member may be further adjusted using the adjusters . Alternatively the magnitude of the misalignment of adjuster may be measured via the theodolite recorded as an azimuth error and applied as a correction to future measurements.

In operation the apparatus is placed in the bore of a tube . With the tube positioned at the azimuth and elevation of interest the unique vertical plane that contains the line defined by the flexible member must be determined. This plane may by crudely estimated by eye. That is at a short distance from the apparatus one may walk circumferentially around apparatus until one reaches a location where the flexible member appears as a vertical line. The unique vertical plane is the plane containing the line defined by member and the point defined as the origin of one s line of sight.

To aid in locating the vertical plane more easily apparatus may further comprise a plumb bob suspended from a second flexible member . Member is also guided through notch and fixed to shaft . Member is supported by flexible member at the base of the notch . Thus the azimuth of the tube lies in the vertical plane defined by the two intersecting lines represented by flexible members .

One may take a few steps away from the apparatus and using one s line of sight find a location where the flexible members are coincident as shown in . For low accuracy measurements of tube azimuth a compass or other low resolution azimuth determining device may be positioned on that location and used to measure the azimuth from that location to the tube . That value plus or minus 180 degrees is the azimuth of the tube .

To establish the azimuth of the tube more precisely an optical instrument such as a theodolite may be positioned on that location to view the coincidence of flexible members and and measure the azimuth to them. Additionally a theodolite alone rather than the plumb bob and second flexible member may be used to measure the azimuth. The optical instrument is erected near one s estimation of the location of the vertical plane that contains the member . The optical instrument may be moved to the left or right to more precisely align its vertical reticle line with member . As with the low resolution method described above the value read by the optical instrument plus or minus 180 degrees is the azimuth of the tube . As an aid in refining the measurement the apparatus may then be rotated 180 degrees about the bore axis . Should the member then be misaligned the optical instrument may be relocated to reestablish the new azimuth line containing the member . The actual azimuth of tube will be the average between the two azimuth measurements.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

