---

title: Method and system for detecting leakage of energy storage structure liquid
abstract: A method and system for detecting liquid leaked from an energy storage structure, e.g., a battery is provided. One embodiment includes a sensor that detects the leaked electrolyte as it leaks through a breach in the wall retaining the electrolyte in the battery. The sensor has a sheet-like layer with a conductive surface and an electrical connection to a first interface. The sensor is positioned substantially flush to the battery wall, so that leaking electrolyte contacts the sensor. If the battery has a case, there is a first external communication point in electrical communication with the first interface. In the absence of leaked electrolyte there is substantially no electrical connection between the first external communication point and either of the terminals as indicated by a very high resistance. When leaked electrolyte is present there is an electrical connection between the first external communication point and either of the terminals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08211559&OS=08211559&RS=08211559
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08211559
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080131
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by an employee of the Department of the Navy and may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for any governmental purpose without payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates generally to energy storage systems and more particularly to a system for detecting leakage of electrolyte from batteries.

Cracked cells or monoblocks cause electrolyte to leak through the wall into the battery case. Electrolyte can also leak if the battery is overcharged as the overcharging can cause the electrolyte to spew out of the cells or monoblocks. Leaked electrolyte corrodes the battery case and it is particularly corrosive to metal battery cases and the trays securing the battery as well as adjacent equipment.

A method and system is provided for detecting liquid leaks such as for example electrolyte leaked from a first structure adapted to store a liquid used in an energy storage system for example a battery. One embodiment of the system comprises a second structure that serves as a sensor that detects electrolyte as it leaks through a breach in a battery wall retaining the electrolyte or when it spews out of a battery cap and drips down to the sensor. The second structure is positioned in proximity to a surface of the first structure. A first conductor is coupled to a first area of the second structure. The leak detection system includes a connectable sensing system adapted to sense a change in at least one electrical value associated with at least one area of the second structure where the sensing system is coupled or connectable to the first conductor. The second structure is adapted such that an electrical value associated with the second structure will change when at least some of the liquid comes in contact with the second structure.

An embodiment of a method associated with the invention tests the conductivity between terminals coupled to each liquid permeable layer and the method works irregardless of the electrical values or measurements of the battery case. The system is suited to easily and rapidly check for the presence of leaked electrolyte with the battery in place and lends itself to automation and hierarchical network testing. This embodiment of the invention also potentially lends itself to determining the size of the breach as the larger the opening the less resistance through the breach.

An electrolyte detection system and method is provided for a variety of battery types. If the battery has a conductive case then the detection system typically requires a sensor with an insulating layer.

One example of a dry cell battery is shown in having a cathode with a positive terminal an anode with a negative terminal an electrolyte and an insular wall . In the illustrated battery the anode is a cylindrical layer of zinc and the electrolyte is typically a moist paste of ammonium chloride zinc chloride and fillers. The cathode can be carbon coated with manganese oxide. The insular wall is comprised of a paper layer and as the zinc is consumed the electrolyte moves closer and closer to the paper layer and toward the end of the battery s life it is common for the electrolyte to tear the wall and for electrolyte to leak out. It should be noted that an embodiment of the invention can be adapted for use with any type of liquid encapsulating a system associated with energy storage.

In sensor includes an absorbent permeable layer that collects leaked electrolyte and a sheet like layer with a conductive surface wherein the sensor prevents or impedes damage or corrosion to adjacent equipment or structures from electrolyte not shown leaked from an energy storage device. The sheet like layer can be in contact with or proximity to a container having a liquid used in an energy storage system such as a battery containing electrolyte such that the liquid is detected after it leaks from the container. Referring to battery is shown with a rupture in a wall and electrolyte leaking down onto a pad like sensor having an absorbent layer . In this embodiment the sensor can be flush or not flush against an energy storage structure e.g. a battery side wall however sensors not flush with a battery wall may be somewhat slower to detect the electrolyte than a sleeve like embodiment illustrated in .

Referring to leakage can be determined by testing the connection between the first external communication point and the terminal using for instance a multimeter . Alternatively multimeter can be coupled with another terminal e.g. of the battery. Note in the illustrated embodiment the battery has a second communication point . The second communication point could be a redundant connection to the sensor or the battery could have a plurality of corresponding sensors for instance one on each side of the battery. The communication point is illustrated as protruding however it could alternatively be recessed e.g. a receptacle that accepts plugs or prongs thereby preventing accidental contact with equipment or personnel. The corresponding sensor has a corresponding communication point. The plurality of corresponding sensors would enable each side wall to be tested individually in order to isolate where the wall had failed. This capability could be utilized in engineering new batteries and in analyzing flaws in a manufacturing process.

An exemplary method for detecting that electrolyte has leaked from a battery having cells or monoblocks can comprise the following steps providing a battery if not already present with a sensor comprised of a sheet like layer having a conductive surface that is an electrically conductive path to leaked electrolyte and an electrical connection to a first interface where the conductive surface is in contact with an insular wall of the battery that retains the cell s or monoblock s electrolyte. The sensor substantially blankets the insular wall such that if there is a leak of the electrolyte it intersects the conductive surface. Then measuring the electrical values or measurements between the first interface and either a positive or a negative terminal of the battery to confirm that there is substantially no electrical connection between the first interface and either of the terminals as indicated by a very high resistance and monitoring periodically that no electrical connection exists therein affirming that there has been no leakage of electrolyte nor that a new electrical connection has been created between the first interface and either of the terminals nor that there is an electrical path from the sensor through the wall to the terminals.

Another exemplary method can include the steps of providing the battery with a case providing the sensor with an electrically and physically insulating layer between the conductive surface and the battery s case and a first external communication point in electrical connection with the first interface and testing to confirm that there is not a conductive pathway from either terminal to the battery case. The method can additionally comprise the step of providing an absorbent material that collects leaked electrolyte.

Another exemplary method for detecting that electrolyte has leaked from a battery can comprise the step of adapting the battery with the sensor. The adapting step preferably comprises the steps of determining the bottom and side surface area dimensions and shape of an insular wall of the battery that retains the cell s or monoblock s electrolyte fabricating a sensor comprised of a sheet like layer having a conductive surface that is an electrically conductive path to leaked electrolyte and an electrical connection to a first interface where the sheet like layer has a shape and surface area that is approximately the same as the bottom surface area dimensions and shape of the battery positioning the battery in contact with the conductive surface of the sheet like layer and all layers of the sensor are fabricated of materials selected to be resistive to corrosion by the leaked electrolyte and measuring the electrical values or measurements between the first interface and either a positive or a negative terminal of the battery to confirm that there is substantially no electrical connection between the first interface and either of the terminals.

The shape and surface area of the sheet like layer can be inclusive of side surface area dimensions and shape of a battery as well as a bottom side of the battery. It should be further noted that in all embodiments discussed herein the term sheet like layer sleeve like or pad like can refer to a liquid permeable conductive layer or structure as well as a non liquid permeable conductive layer or structure used in cases such as for example where an absorptive pad is between the sheet like layer and battery which contains electrolyte and the absorptive pad is used to contain leaked electrolyte. A battery can be positioned in contact with a bottom and side conductive surface of the sheet like layer as described above.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

