---

title: Nanogrid rolling circle DNA sequencing
abstract: The present invention relates to methods for sequencing a polynucleotide immobilized on an array having a plurality of specific regions each having a defined diameter size, including synthesizing a concatemer of a polynucleotide by rolling circle amplification, wherein the concatemer has a cross-sectional diameter greater than the diameter of a specific region, immobilizing the concatemer to the specific region to make an immobilized concatemer, and sequencing the immobilized concatemer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09624538&OS=09624538&RS=09624538
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 09624538
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080514
---
This application is a continuation of PCT application no. PCT US2006 044209 designating the United States and filed Nov. 14 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 736 923 filed on Nov. 14 2005 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under National Institutes of Health grant number HG003170 and under U.S. Department of Energy grant number DE FG02 02ER63445. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates in general to novel methods of sequencing polynucleotides on a nanoarray.

Methods for generating spatially clustered support attached nucleic acid amplicons include polony in situ PCR and emulsion PCR. In both cases nucleic acid features as small as a micron can be produced but both use limiting dilution to ensure clonal amplicons. This requirement limits the effective feature density per unit volume that can be achieved as it is governed by Poisson statistics. Linear rolling circle amplification multiple displacement amplification and hyperbranched rolling circle amplification are all techniques which allow production of clonal amplicons without limiting dilution of template.

The present invention is directed in part to a novel method for sequencing polynucleotides by generating and subsequently sequencing clonal surface bound nucleic acid amplicons which can be produced at much higher numbers per reaction volume than can be achieved using current methods known in the art.

In certain embodiments methods for sequencing a polynucleotide immobilized on an array having a plurality of specific regions e.g. a nanoarray each having a defined diameter size including synthesizing a concatemer of a polynucleotide by rolling circle amplification wherein the concatemer has a cross sectional diameter greater than the diameter of a specific region immobilizing the concatemer to the specific region to make an immobilized concatemer and sequencing the immobilized concatemer are provided. In certain aspects the nucleic acid oligomer is DNA. In other aspects optical magnification is used to determine the nucleic acid sequence of the clonally amplified concatemer.

In certain aspects the concatemer has a cross sectional diameter of at least 50 nanometers at least 75 nanometers at least 100 nanometers at least 150 nanometers at least 200 nanometers at least 300 nanometers at least 400 nanometers at least 500 nanometers or greater.

In other aspects one concatemer is immobilized at a specific region. In still other aspects immobilization is performed by one or more of biotin avidin capture biotin streptavidin capture NHS ester capture thioether linkage static charge interactions or van der Waals forces.

In certain aspects the array has at least 100 1 000 10 000 100 000 1 000 000 10 000 000 100 000 000 or more specific regions. In still other aspects at least 90 900 9 000 90 000 900 000 9 000 000 90 000 000 at least 95 950 9 500 95 000 950 000 9 500 000 95 000 000 at least 99 990 9 900 99 000 990 000 9 900 000 99 000 000 or more of the specific regions each contains one immobilized concatemer. In yet other aspects one concatemer is immobilized at each of the specific regions.

In certain other embodiments methods for sequencing a polynucleotide immobilized on an array e.g. a nanoarray having a plurality of specific regions each having a defined diameter size including synthesizing a concatemer of a polynucleotide by rolling circle amplification wherein the concatemer has a cross sectional diameter greater than the diameter of a specific region immobilizing the concatemer to the specific region to make an immobilized concatemer clonally amplifying the immobilized concatemer to make a clonally amplified concatemer and sequencing the clonally amplified concatemer are provided. In certain aspects clonally amplifying is performed by a method selected from the group consisting of rolling circle amplification e.g. hyperbranched rolling circle amplification padlock probe rolling circle amplification and linear rolling circle amplification multiple displacement amplification thermophilic helicase dependent amplification and bridge PCR.

In still other embodiments methods for sequencing a polynucleotide immobilized on an array e.g. a nanoarray having a plurality of specific regions each having a defined diameter size of less than 300 nanometers including synthesizing a concatemer of a polynucleotide by rolling circle amplification wherein the concatemer has a cross sectional diameter of greater than 300 nanometers immobilizing the concatemer to the specific region to make an immobilized concatemer and sequencing the immobilized concatemer are provided.

Further features and advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention will become more fully apparent in the following description of the embodiments and drawings thereof and from the claims.

The present invention provides a novel nanotechnology useful for sequencing individual polynucleotides on a nanoarray.

Certain embodiments pertain to methods of performing rolling circle amplification RCA on polynucleotides to produce concatemers. Several suitable RCA methods are known in the art. For example linear RCA amplifies circular DNA by polymerase extension of a complementary primer. This process generates concatemerized copies of the circular DNA template such that multiple copies of a DNA sequence arranged end to end in tandem are generated. Exponential RCA is similar to the linear process except that it uses a second primer of identical sequence to the DNA circle Lizardi et al. 1998 19 225 . This two primer system achieves isothermal exponential amplification. Exponential RCA has been applied to the amplification of non circular DNA through the use of a linear probe that binds at both of its ends to contiguous regions of a target DNA followed by circularization using DNA ligase i.e. padlock RCA Nilsson et al. 1994 265 5181 2085 . Hyperbranched RCA uses a second primer complementary to the rolling circle replication RCR product. This allows RCR products to be replicated by a strand displacement mechanism which can yield a billion fold amplification in an isothermal reaction Dahl et al. 2004 101 13 4548 .

In certain embodiments methods of clonally amplifying concatemers e.g. immobilized concatemers are provided. Such methods include but are not limited to polymerase chain reaction PCR bridge PCR thermophilic helicase dependent amplification tHDA linear polymerase reactions strand displacement amplification e.g. multiple displacement amplification RCA e.g. hyperbranched RCA padlock probe RCA linear RCA and the like nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA and the like which are disclosed in the following references Nilsson et al. supra Schweitzer et al. 2002 20 359 Demidov 2002 2 6 89 RCA Mullis et al U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 965 188 4 683 202 4 800 159 PCR Gelfand et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 210 015 real time PCR with Taqman probes Wittwer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 174 670 Kacian et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 491 NASBA Lizardi U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 033 Aono et al. Japanese Patent Pub. JP 4 262799 rolling circle amplification Church U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 432 360 6 511 803 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 485 944 replica amplification e.g. polony amplification and the like.

In certain embodiments methods of determining the nucleic acid sequence of one or more clonally amplified concatemers are provided. Determination of the nucleic acid sequence of a clonally amplified concatemer can be performed using variety of sequencing methods known in the art including but not limited to sequencing by hybridization SBH quantitative incremental fluorescent nucleotide addition sequencing QIFNAS stepwise ligation and cleavage fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET molecular beacons TaqMan reporter probe digestion pyrosequencing fluorescent in situ sequencing FISSEQ allele specific oligo ligation assays e.g. oligo ligation assay OLA single template molecule OLA using a ligated linear probe and a rolling circle amplification RCA readout ligated padlock probes and or single template molecule OLA using a ligated circular padlock probe and a rolling circle amplification RCA readout and the like. A variety of light based sequencing technologies are known in the art Landegren et al. 1998 8 769 76 Kwok 2000 1 95 100 and Shi 2001 47 164 172 

Examples of detectable markers include various enzymes prosthetic groups fluorescent markers luminescent markers bioluminescent markers and the like. Examples of fluorescent proteins include but are not limited to yellow fluorescent protein YFP green fluorescence protein GFP cyan fluorescence protein CFP umbelliferone fluorescein fluorescein isothiocyanate rhodamine dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein dansyl chloride phycoerythrin and the like. Examples of bioluminescent markers include but are not limited to luciferase e.g. bacterial firefly click beetle and the like luciferin aequorin and the like. Examples of enzyme systems having visually detectable signals include but are not limited to galactosidases glucorinidases phosphatases peroxidases cholinesterases and the like.

Certain embodiments are directed to synthesizing concatemers from polynucleotides. As used herein the terms nucleic acid molecule nucleic acid oligomer oligonucleotide nucleic acid sequence nucleic acid fragment and polynucleotide are used interchangeably and are intended to include but are not limited to a polymeric form of nucleotides that may have various lengths either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides or analogs thereof. Different polynucleotides may have different three dimensional structures and may perform various functions known or unknown. Non limiting examples of polynucleotides include a gene a gene fragment an exon an intron intergenic DNA including without limitation heterochromatic DNA messenger RNA mRNA transfer RNA ribosomal RNA a ribozyme cDNA a recombinant polynucleotide a branched polynucleotide a plasmid a vector isolated DNA of a sequence isolated RNA of a sequence a nucleic acid probe and a primer. Polynucleotides useful in the methods of the invention may comprise natural nucleic acid sequences and variants thereof artificial nucleic acid sequences or a combination of such sequences.

A polynucleotide is typically composed of a specific sequence of four nucleotide bases adenine A cytosine C guanine G and thymine T uracil U for thymine T when the polynucleotide is RNA . Thus the term polynucleotide sequence is the alphabetical representation of a polynucleotide molecule alternatively the term may be applied to the polynucleotide molecule itself. This alphabetical representation can be input into databases in a computer having a central processing unit and used for bioinformatics applications such as functional genomics and homology searching. Polynucleotides may optionally include one or more non standard nucleotide s nucleotide analog s and or modified nucleotides.

Examples of modified nucleotides include but are not limited to 5 fluorouracil 5 bromouracil 5 chlorouracil 5 iodouracil hypoxanthine xantine 4 acetylcytosine 5 carboxyhydroxylmethyl uracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouridine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluracil dihydrouracil beta D galactosylqueosine inosine N6 isopentenyladenine 1 methylguanine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanine 2 methyladenine 2 methylguanine 3 methylcytosine 5 methylcytosine N6 adenine 7 methylguanine 5 methylaminomethyluracil 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouracil beta D mannosylqueosine 5 methoxycarboxymethyluracil 5 methoxyuracil 2 methylthio D46 isopentenyladenine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v wybutoxosine pseudouracil queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 2 thiouracil 4 thiouracil 5 methyluracil uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 3 3 amino 3 N2 carboxypropyl uracil acp3 w 2 6 diaminopurine and the like. Nucleic acid molecules may also be modified at the base moiety sugar moiety or phosphate backbone.

In certain embodiments methods of immobilizing one or more concatemers to an array are provided. Nanoarray microarray and array refer to a solid or semi solid support having an array of spatially defined non overlapping regions or sites that each contain an immobilized polynucleotide and or a concatemer. Spatially defined sites may additionally be addressable in that its location and the identity of the immobilized polynucleotide and or concatemer at that location is known or determinable. Typically the polynucleotides and or concatemers on microarrays are substantially or entirely single stranded and are covalently or noncovalently attached to the support usually by a 5 end or a 3 end. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid molecules are spaced at a distance from one another sufficient to permit the identification of discrete features of the array. Nucleic acids on the array may be non overlapping or partially overlapping. Methods of transferring a nucleic acid pool to support media are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 360.

 Support can refer to a matrix upon which polynucleotides and or concatemers of a nucleic acid array are placed. The support can be solid semi solid or a gel. As used herein the term solid substrate includes but is not limited to materials such as glass silica polymeric materials and the like. In certain embodiments solid support materials include but are not limited to glass polacryloylmorpholide silica controlled pore glass polystyrene polystyrene latex carboxyl modified Teflon polymerized Langmuir Blodgett film functionalized glass Si Ge GaAs GaP SiO SiN modified silicon or poly tetrafluoroethylene poly vinylidendifluoride polystyrene polycarbonate or combinations thereof.

Solid substrates include but are not limited to slides plates beads particles spheres strands sheets tubing containers e.g. test tubes microfuge tubes bowls trays and the like capillaries films polymeric chips and the like. In some embodiments at least one surface of the substrate is partially planar. In other embodiments it is desirable to physically separate regions of the substrate to delineate synthetic regions for example with trenches grooves wells or the like.

As used herein the term semi solid includes but is not limited to a compressible matrix with both a solid and a liquid component wherein the liquid occupies pores spaces or other interstices between the solid matrix elements. Semi solid supports can be selected from polyacrylamide cellulose polyamide nylon and crossed linked agarose dextran and polyethylene glycol.

A support can include a variety of different binding moieties to permit the coupling of one or more polynucleotides and or concatemers to the support. In certain aspects a suitable binding moiety includes but is not limited to a capture moiety such as a hydrophobic compound an oligonucleotide an antibody or fragment of an antibody a protein a peptide a chemical cross linker an intercalator and the like or one or more elements of a capture pair e.g. biotin avidin biotin streptavidin NHS ester and the like a thioether linkage static charge interactions van der Waals forces and the like. A support can be functionalized with any of a variety of functional groups known in the art. Commonly used chemical functional groups include but are not limited to carboxyl amino hydroxyl hydrazide amide chloromethyl epoxy aldehyde and the like.

In certain embodiments methods for arraying nucleic acid features and visualizing such arrays including but not limited to Picotiter arrays polony sequencing arrays and Quake arrays are provided. The Picotiter imaging system uses a fiber optic array physically fused to the CCD detector such that the feature density is limited by the detector pixel size and the number of features is limited by the overall detector size. In practice feature density is limited further because of bleed through to adjacent array elements.

In the polony method diffraction limited optics lie between the array and the detector. Thus the array can be as large as desired without requiring any increase in detector size. Feature size can be more easily matched to detector pixel size by adjusting optical magnification and numerical aperture NA but smaller features are desirable because they require less reagent use per feature and this less cost per feature .

In the Quake array features are diffraction limited individual molecules and so must be spaced by limiting dilution or some other physical means in order to be optically resolved. Thus density is limited in theory by the resolution of the optics and pixel size relative to the optical magnification. In all cases each useable feature requires tens to hundreds of pixels on the detector. A method to allow imaging of an ordered array of diffraction limited amplicons is presented herein. The size of the amplicon and the spacing between amplicons can be easily controlled to match the optical resolution magnification and pixel size such that every pixel on the detector is occupied by a different nucleic acid feature.

To create a bead free amplicon on a single pixel array a solid substrate to which the feature array can be anchored may be used. The surface of the substrate is functionalized in a pattern which will give rise to the ordered array. Methods of functionalization at the size scale described herein include but are not limited to electron beam lithography and photolithography. For example a grid of square patches each 150 nm on edge with a center to center spacing of 570 nm optical resolution at 700 nm with NA 0.75 is 570 nm will result in an array in which each diffraction limited functionalized square corresponds to one pixel on the detector if the pixel size is 8 microns on edge and the optics have a NA of 0.75 and a magnification of 14 20 objective and 0.7 relay . After suitable deconvolution to remove contributions from neighboring Airy patterns the signal at each pixel on the detector will be a measurement of the signal at each functionalized square on the array.

Without intending to be bound by theory the principle which guarantees clonality in this amplification method is excluded volume. Each initial template molecule monomeric is first amplified by a strand displacing polymerase to generate many copies that are covalently attached to each other. This concatemer occupies a greater volume than the monomeric template and this volume or its cross sectional area is what defines the maximum size of each functionalized spot on the array. For example without intending to be bound by theory the product of a linear rolling circle amplification of a 135 base pair template molecule with Phi 29 polymerase is a single stranded nucleic acid molecule of approximately 70 000 base pairs Blanco et al 1989 which would occupy a volume of having a cross sectional diameter of approximately several hundred nanometers. If a surface of squares functionalized to bind the concatemers is saturated with concatemers each square will bind exactly one molecule if its size is less than approximately several hundred nanometers on edge.

In typical diffraction limited optical setups with an NA in the range described above this concatemer may not bear enough copies to be detected by for example fluorescence labeling of one site in the template in a short period of time. It is often necessary to perform a secondary amplification to provide enough clonal template molecules per functionalized spot for fast detection. One way to achieve this second amplification is by using functionalized spots which capture the concatemer template molecules by hybridization i.e. the surface is functionalized with oligonucleotides . In this example the oligonucleotide attached to the substrate is complementary to sequence present in the concatemers. Once captured a secondary exponential amplification is performed e.g. using methods including but not limited to hyperbranched rolling circle amplification multiple displacement amplification bridge PCR and the like.

One possible limitation is that the amount of signal per pixel will be proportional to the size of the spot on the array since the spots are below the diffraction limits of the optics and any variation in size will result in signal variation. To alleviate this each square can be replaced with a pair of concentric squares or circles or any other shape where the inner spot is functionalized with one group which serves to capture the concatemer template molecule and the outer spot is functionalized with a second group which serves as an attachment point for the secondary amplification primer. The inner spot is of the size where clonality is maximal i.e. smaller than the cross sectional diameter of a concatemer and the outer spot is of the size where signal is maximal i.e. slightly smaller than the Airy disc of the objective lens used. Continuing the description above the inner spot would be approximately 100 nm on edge and the outer spot would be 550 nm on edge with a center to center spacing of 570 nm. The same goal could be accomplished with a substrate coated uniformly with one functional type i.e. an oligonucleotide that would allow for a secondary amplification and had small spots of a second functional type that would serve as the point of initial attachment of the amplicon. In this case one need only fabricate an array using one mask which would define the small spots.

This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Two 90 base pair oligomers 75 base pair like sequence 15 base pair unique sequence were ordered from IDT and are referred to as the templates. 10 pmol of the template was phosphorylated using 10 units of polynucleotide kinase PNK in 10 l of T4 ligase buffer. The templates were then circularized using a 26 base pair guiding oligonucleotide and 5 units of AmpLigase in 50 l of IX buffer cycling between 2 minutes at 94 C. and 10 minutes at 42 C. for 3 cycles. 1.5 l of Exonuclease I 50 units and 0.5 l of Exonuclease III 50 units were added to digest any remaining linear fragments. A rolling circle amplification RCA reaction was then performed in solution using 2 pmol of circular template 2 pmol of primer 25 nmol of dNTP and 20 units of Phi29 in 25 l of 1 RepliPhi buffer. The reaction proceeded over the weekend approximately 70 hours at 30 C. One third of the product was filtered through a Microcon YM 50 filter and then re suspended in 200 l of dHO. The product was quantified at 5 ng l using a Nanodrop spectrophotometer. Assuming 70 000 base pair molecules a 220 pM solution was obtained.

Slides were prepared using the protocol found at Example IX. Glass slides Gold Seal were cleaned for 0.5 to 2 hours in 2 N nitric acid. After rinsing in distilled water the slides were soaked in distilled water for 5 to 15 minutes and then washed once with acetone. The slides were silanized by immersing them for 15 minutes in a solution of 1 aminopropyl methyl diethoxysilane Fluka dissolved in 95 acetone. After washing the slides twice in acetone the slides were baked for 30 minutes at 75 C. The surface of the slides was then activated by placing the slides in a solution of 0.5 1 4 diphenylene diisothiocyanate PDC Fluka dissolved in a solution consisting of 40 ml pyridine and 360 ml anhydrous N N dimethylformamide for 2 to 4 hours. The slides were then washed twice with methanol twice with acetone and stored in a dessicator until use. A custom built arraying robot equipped with piezo electric printheads was used to print the microarrays. After printing the microarrays were incubated overnight at room temperature then for 1 hour at 37 C. in a humidity chamber containing 300 mM KHPO pH 9.0. The remainder of the PDC surface was inactivated by a 10 minute incubation in 1 ammonium hydroxide 0.1 SDS 200 mM NaCl. After washing in 4 SSC the slides were neutralized in 6 SSPE 0.01 Triton X 100 washed twice in 4 SSC then washed in 2 SSC and spun dry in a clinical centrifuge. Slides were stored in a closed box at room temperature until use.

A 24 base pair oligomer with a 5 amino group and 6 carbon linker short primer and a 30 base pair oligomer with a 5 amino group and 12 carbon linker long primer were ordered from IDT and were re suspended to a concentration of 100 M in dHO. Either of the oligomers was coupled to the slide using a protocol based upon that found at Example IX. 5 l of oligomer was added to 45 l of 300 mM KHPOand pipetted on to a coverslip and the activated slide was placed on the coverslip and inverted. The slide was incubated at 25 C. for 5 minutes 37 C. for 10 minutes and the rest of the slide was then inactivated through placing it in blocking solution 1 NHOH 0.1 SDS 200 mM NaCl for 10 minutes. The slides were then washed 4 SSC 6 SSPE 0.01 Triton X 100 4 SSC and 2 SSC. The slides were used immediately after the coupling.

The following changes were made 2.5 l of each of the concatemer templates were used in a volume of 50 l and were placed in a humidity chamber at 55 C. for 30 minutes.

Strand displacement amplification SDA extension was performed using the above protocol for Bst Polymerase with the change that SSB was not used and the reaction was run for 15 minutes.

Single Base Extension SBE to demonstrate clonality was performed according to the protocol found in Example XII. In brief FISSEQ reverse primers were hybridized to the slide and Klenow polymerase was used to extend one base with either Cy3 dATP or Cy5 dCTP.

Hybridization detection to demonstrate clonality and single strandedness of slide bound amplicon was performed by annealing a solution of three primers an Oregon Green labeled primer that could hybridize to both templates and a Cy3 and Cy5 labeled primer that could hybridize to only one type of primer. 75 pmoles of oligomer were used in 50 l of 6 SSPE buffer and allowed to anneal at either 45 C. or 55 C. depending upon the primer set for 5 minutes and washed 2 in Wash 1E 100 mM Tris pH 7.5 20 mM EDTA 500 mM KCl .

Slides were imaged using an epifluorescence microscope with an Orca II ER CCD camera and Plan Apo 20 NA 0.75 objective.

Rolling circle amplification RCA can be used to create a dense structure with maximal fluorescence as well as a suitable structure for excluded volume cloning. 

Rolling circle colony i.e. rolony plus nanogrids can achieve a 70 to 700 fold scale up. 1 Mbp per cycle has been obtained from 750 M pixels. The inefficiency of bead emulsion amplification makes its cost impact significant. More importantly the beads used in bead emulsion amplification may be less fluorescent and do not provide the best way to interface with nanogrids. That is a spherical bead has a tiny point of contact and a tendency to roll while each RCA blob should adhere to one entire 70 nm nano grid patch. As a dilute wave of RCAs hits the first row of nanopatches each RCA will completely cover one patch and accordingly be clonal.

The current beads have r 500 nm a ds 150 bp amplicon molecule 2 2 50 nm. Without intending to be bound by theory the maximum number of amplicon molecules in the hemispherical annulus facing the camera would be 433K actually less than 40K since the PCR intensity is 10 fold lower than oligo loaded beads while a r 400 nm tight RCA sphere could have 1.3M amplicons. Without intending to be bound by theory assuming that the monomer circle to single stranded linear RCA phase yields 1000 tandem amplicons then another 1000 fold in the single strand to second strand hyperbranch phase on or off the slide could be achieved. A 70 nm square on the slide surface could consist of 100 to 1000 primers An et al. 2005 280 32 28952 .

Polycations Mg and or polyamines can be used to contract the RCA sphere during imaging. Low salt will expand it to allow oligo replacement ligation reactions.

Nano imprinting See e.g. Jung et al. 2005 21 14 6127 Yan et al. 2005 5 4 745 Evelyn et al. 2005 26 26 5405 Luesebrink et al. 2005 5 6 864 Ge et al. 2005 5 1 179 Liang et al. 2005 5 3 527 Jung et al. 2005 21 4 1158 Lenhert et al. 2005 26 5 563 can be used to make a prototype simply by delivering oligo attachment chemicals to the glass surface with a fine needle on a mm grid and then just measuring the patch sizes under the microscope. Then the ability to clonally mask the nanopatches could be quickly addressed by using a mixture of two colored RCAs. A third color could be used for small oligos which could show the size of each nanopatch. Improved pattern transfer in nanoimprint lithography at 30 nm half pitch by substrate surface functionalization. Using 4 or 9 pixels per rolony can yield a 100 fold cost improvement over 750 pixels per polony .

Given that 100 200 nm nanospots can be fabricated on an 800 nm grid center to center with approximately 20 nm precision and that a 8000 nm CCD pixel corresponds to 400 nm at 20 on the gridded slide the X and Y axis positioning has a precision of 1 micron 3 pixels . To orient oneself in the 2 billion nanospots in a 60 24 mm coverslip 250 000 spots per CCD frame are fiducial alignment features will be designed into the grid. Imaging software will use these to achieve within one pixel precision. Then 4 adjacent pixels will be summed with 3 offsets red green blue below to determine which one works the best for a given frame. Test images may be made from scratch or from previous bead polony sequencing. Spot spacing optics and CCD pixel spacing can be coordinated precisely to optimize data collection efficiency minimizing photons spilling over from adjacent rolonies and minimizing the number of pixels without any data.

1 Patterning 100 nm feature sizes can be generated on a 1.2 um or 2.4 um pitch. Arrays are currently 25 25 on silicon. Spots aren t perfectly square. There are big spots in the middle of some arrays that to blank the beam in the middle of patterning. In certain embodiments these will not be in the arrays.

2 Chemistry The surface is fluorinated C8H4F13 in the negative patterns. Spots are functionalized with propylamine. Isothiocyanate coupling verified by RITC binding. All surfaces are one monolayer measured by ellipsometry and AFM.

3 Assuming there is a fluor every 10 nm which is a reasonable assumption based on the size of rhodamine compared to a phosphoramidite there are only 100 fluors per spot. Polony amplification can increase this for two reasons. First more fluors will be present. Second many fluors will be farther away from the surface thereby limiting quenching.

NEB resist may be used on glass to eliminate quenching. Without intending to be bound by theory NHS NHS coupling may be more bio stable than thiourea.

Millions of spots per chip may be obtained costing about 1M. Once the volume is high nanoimprint may be used cost 2M . Without intending to be bound by theory one could make 1 per minute. Optical or x ray lithography systems are about 80M to reach 100 nm. Another alternative is nanosphere lithography NSL using evaporated metal as the resist. A metal evaporator would cost about 100K.

In one embodiment the CCD grid is 8 microns center to center. Using a 20 objective that would mean 400 nm center to center on the slide. A 10 objective which would be 800 nm. A 1200 nm an integral multiple of 400 can also be used.

For the spot shape a circle or a square may be used. For spot size 50 nm 75 nm 100 nm and the like full width may be used. In certain embodiments isolated spots will be used to check cross talk e.g. a 4800 nm grid . In certain embodiments three separate glass or quartz slides or the Si wafer equivalent will be used on each run enabling one to achieve a bright image another for a more typical DNA polony image plus one in case either of those two fails.

In certain embodiments a set would be 3 slides each with 3 spot sizes 50 75 100 at 6 spacings 399.6 400 400.4 800 1200 4800 . In other embodiments other arrangements e.g. one slide with two spot sizes 50 100 at 2 spacings 400 800 will be used.

Two different species of concatemers generated by linear RCA were hybridized to a slide that was covered with a field of primers and ran a reaction with Bst polymerase for 30 minutes. The result when assayed with SBE using Cy3 and Cy5 dNTPs with a FITC primer was a dense field of 1 micron spots covering the entire slide. Almost every spot on the slide was either Cy3 or Cy5 without any overlapping signal.

34 base reads 1200 nm center to center 6e10 bases 10 diploid human genome would mean 35. The main cost issue being addressed was the need for something other than e beam once billions of spots are achieved since e beam might take a few days at 4000 per day. A nanoimprinting machine developed by Eric Wilhelm is also capable of microcontact printing. Commercial single layer photolith at 65 nm is approximately 0.5 per cmper layer. E beam can be used to make a Photomask an Imprint or a micro contact master for mass production.

The following Cy3 labeled oligonucleotide Operon was spotted at 10 M in 150 mM KHPO pH 9.0 for alignment purposes 5 TCAGAACTCACCTGTTAGAC 3 SEQ ID NO 1 . This oligo was spotted to create a series of alignment spots essentially as described previously Bulyk et al. 2001 98 13 7158 . The following set of oligonucleotides was synthesized Operon to represent various positive and negative control spots for binding by the yeast transcription factor Rpn4. The following sequences are listed 5 to 3 

The following 16 mer was synthesized with a 5 amino linker and HPLC purified Operon and used as a universal primer 5 GGACCGATTGACTTGA 3 SEQ ID NO 18 . Each of the 12 unmodified full length oligonucleotides listed above was combined with the amino tagged 16 mer in a 2 1 molar ratio in a Sequenase reaction using 20 M 16 mer. The completed extension reactions were exchanged into 150 mM KHPO pH 9.0 using CentriSpin 10 spin columns Princeton Separations Inc. . The resulting samples were transferred to a 384 well plate for arraying.

Glass slides Gold Seal were cleaned for 0.5 to 2 hrs in 2 N nitric acid. After rinsing in distilled water the slides were soaked in distilled water for 5 to 15 minutes and then washed once with acetone. The slides were silanized by immersing them for 15 minutes in a solution of 1 aminopropyl methyl diethoxysilane Fluka dissolved in 95 acetone. After washing the slides twice in acetone the slides were baked for 30 minutes at 75 C. The surface of the slides was then activated by placing the slides in a solution of 0.5 1 4 diphenylene diisothiocyanate PDC Fluka dissolved in a solution consisting of 40 ml pyridine and 360 ml anhydrous N N dimethylformamide for 2 to 4 hours. The slides were then washed twice with methanol twice with acetone and stored in a dessicator until use. A custom built arraying robot equipped with piezo electric printheads was used to print the microarrays. After printing the microarrays were incubated overnight at room temperature then for 1 hour at 37 C. in a humidity chamber containing 300 mM KHPO pH 9.0. The remainder of the PDC surface was inactivated by a 10 minute incubation in 1 ammonium hydroxide 0.1 SDS 200 mM NaCl. After washing in 4 SSC the slides were neutralized in 6 SSPE 0.01 Triton X 100 washed twice in 4 SSC then washed in 2 SSC and spun dry in a clinical centrifuge. Slides were stored in a closed box at room temperature until use.

 1 Only those spots with known sequence were considered. Empty blank and control spots and also spots for which the Research Genetics primers did not map well to the claimed intergenic region thus possibly leading to poor PCR quality were removed.

 2 A number of spot filters were employed based on the SybrGreen I data. The following numbers of spots passed each of the following filters applied in the following order 

 4 Duplicate spots were removed. In cases where there were identical spots the one with PBM data and higher absolute SybrGreen I signal intensity was kept. The total number of possible non duplicate spots was 6723.

Complementary biotinylated DNA oligonucleotides each 45 base pairs in length were synthesized such that they contained the predicted Rap1 binding site flanked by its native flanking sequence from the given intergenic region. A positive control probe containing a known Rap1 binding site and a negative control probe lacking a Rap1 binding site were also synthesized and used in EMSAs.

The oligonucleotides were diluted in TE pH 8.0 to a working stock of 10 M. The working stocks for each of the two complementary oligonucleotides designated U for biotinylated upper and L for lower were combined in the following ratios respectively 1 2 for both control probes and iYPL221W and 1 5 for the probe iYLL051C. The solutions were then brought to a final volume of 20 l with TE pH 8.0. Each such pair of single stranded complementary oligonucleotides were annealed in a thermocycler according to the following thermocycling protocol resulting in approximately 1 M final concentration of each biotinylated double stranded oligonucleotide 

The annealed oligonucleotide probes were filtered using Millipore s Microcon YM 100 100 000 molecular weight cutoff before use in EMSAs.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assays EMSAs were performed according to manufacturer s protocols for the LightShift Chemiluminescent EMSA Kit Pierce Rockford Ill. . The lanes correspond to EMSA reactions that contained approximately 350 nM DNA probe and approximately 29 nM GST His6 Rap1. The no protein EMSA reactions lanes contained approximately 350 nM DNA probe and no Rap1 protein. All EMSA binding reactions contained 1 LightShift Binding Buffer 0.05 g l poly dI dC nonspecific DNA competitor 2.5 glycerol 50 mM KCl 0.2 g l BSA 0.05 NP 40 and 0.5 mM zinc acetate. The 20 l binding reactions were allowed to sit at room temperature for 1 hour. Subsequently 2.2 l of NOVEX 5 Hi Density TBE Sample Buffer Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. was added to the reactions and 12.5 l of the reaction was run on a 6 polyacrylamide DNA retardation gel Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. in 0.5 TBE at 100 V for 50 minutes. The contents of the gel were transferred to a BIODYNE B Pre cut Modified Nylon Membrane 0.45 M Pierce Rockford Ill. and UV crosslinked to the membrane at 120 J cm. The membrane was then treated with developing buffers LightShift Blocking Buffer with stabilized Streptavidin Horse Radish Peroxidase conjugate Wash Buffer Substrate Equilibration Buffer Luminol Enhancer Solution and Peroxide Solution according to manufacturer s protocols. The blot was promptly exposed to Kodak film for second which was then developed.

At the conclusion of the PCR reaction amplicons were present in double stranded form with one strand anchored to the gel via the acrydite modification. Denaturation enabled removal of the unanchored strand such that the remaining strand could be free to serve as a template for hybridization and sequencing reactions.

In this step a sequencing primer or labeled probe was annealed to a specific location within the now single stranded PCR. Although it was possible to use the unmodified amplification primer itself as the sequencing primer it was generally determined to be advisable to use a sequencing primer that was internal to the PCR product largely to avoid incidental sequencing of spurious PCR products primer dimer formation and the like .

The selection of a specific Cy label and dNTP combinations was dependent upon exactly what was being sequenced in a specific experiment. Cy labeled dNTPs are NOT terminators and experiments were designed accordingly. More than one labeled or unlabeled base could be included in an extension reaction. A typical genotyping experiment for example could include 2 dNTPs one Cy3 labeled and one Cy5 labeled . The signal to noise ratios obtained using Cy5 labeled bases was considerably better than using Cy3. Another option was to extend with a single Cy5 labeled base scan the gel and then perform a second extension reaction with the other base. The genotypes could be determined by image processing after the fact. Even when attempting to probe rather than sequence over a SNP Cy labeled hybridization probes were generally avoided because labeled primers are expensive. Instead an SBE was performed over a known base.

The following protocol was typically performed with Perkin Elmer and Axon instruments but is suitable for use with a variety of scanning equipment.

Gels could be scanned dry or wet the latter under a cover slip . When it was planned to reuse amplified gels e.g. to denature and re anneal for a second round of sequencing for example the slides were usually scanned wet so that they did not dry out. One important aspect for keeping the gels stable over repeated use was to always dip the slides in liquid e.g. Wash 1E immediately before removing the coverslip. It was determined that gel damage over repeated uses of a given slide was primarily a consequence of removing the coverslip from a dry gel after scanning.

Generally a good signal to noise ratio was obtained using modest power and PMT settings e.g. 50 1 signal to noise with Cy5 dye SBE scanned at 80 80 . The focus could often differ from that which was required for scanning microarrays so this was an important parameter to adjust.

In one exemplary embodiment sequencing by ligation was performed on linear RCA amplicons irreversibly bound to the surface of a slide . In one experiment the clonal binding of concatemers to the spots occurred at low frequency of occupation and in another using a different technique 100 occupancy of spots was achieved but with clonality . Hybridization of fluorescently labeled oligomers has confirmed that the concatemers can be clonally packed with a density approaching the near term desired density of one spot per 1.44 microns . The combinatorial nano grids were generated to assess various spot sizes and spacing .

In certain experiments single stranded DNA was able to irreversibly bind the slide surface despite the lack of binding media such biotin or amine groups. Without intending to be bound by scientific theory this may have been due to static interaction van der Waals forces and or the exocyclic amines on the DNA alone or in combination with the active binding group s . Steric occlusion can be used to maximally pack an amine reactive slide with ssDNA concatemers.

In certain exemplary aspects 1 modifications of the passivated surface on the nanogrid 2 increases of the stringency of the detergent present in the nanospot concatemer binding buffer and 3 modifications of the DNA concatemer to make it less prone to non specific binding can be performed.

Regarding aspect two above building a second strand for the ssDNA concatemer having a good binding group is one simple way to make it less reactive. A unique terminal primer can then be attached or used to prime the polymerization of the second strand which can be used to hybridize in one place to the surface primer or terminal transferase can be used to attach a chain of biotinylated or aminated dNTPs. The terminal transferase can also be used to add 300 500 repeats of a single dNTP such as dTTP which can hybridize to a poly A tail on the surface of the spot. Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. produces a Kilobase Binder buffer which aids in the binding of 10 kb DNA strands with a single biotin to streptavidin coated beads. This would be a new application for this buffer.

In other exemplary embodiments the tightness of the amplicons once they are surface bound will be increased. 50 minute RCA reactions have created concatemers that occupied between 12 and 17 pixels on the surface when bound non specifically. Attaching the DNA at only the end could allow for greater packing as well as shorter concatemers. Another exemplary approach is to use amine modified dNTPs in the creation of the original concatemer and using a bifunctional amine binding chemical e.g. 1 4 phenylenedisiothiocyanate PDC bis sulfosuccinimidyl suberate BS3 or the like to collapse the concatemer upon itself. Yet another exemplary approach would be to use the DNA staples currently used for DNA origami to hybridize to two different portions of the concatemer and fold it upon itself.

Amine or biotin modified primers were used. Before addition of the polymerase the sample was pre heated to 95 C. for 3 minutes and then at the Tof the primer for 5 minutes. The polymerase was added after cooling to 30 C. and then allowed to react for approximately 50 minutes polymerase added at 2240 base pairs minute . Inactivation was performed by a 20 minute incubation at 65 C.

Template DNA no need to purify from RepliPhi Buffer and 25 mg ml sodium bicarbonate buffer pH 9.0 with 0.01 Triton X 100 were mixed and allowed to bind for 60 minutes in a humidity chamber at room temperature.

