---

title: Method and system for arranging an advertising schedule
abstract: A method and system for arranging advertising breaks based on channel surfing characteristics of viewers. The surfing characteristics of a plurality of viewers is determined, the surfing characteristics bearing on a likelihood of a respective viewer channel surfing. Advertisements are assigned to time slots among a plurality of channels based on the surfing characteristics of the plurality of viewers to form an advertising schedule. Programming is delivered with the plurality of advertisements according to the advertising schedule. The reduction of simultaneous channel surfing increases availability and efficient use of a shared medium by a plurality of different users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08312487&OS=08312487&RS=08312487
owner: Qurio Holdings, Inc.
number: 08312487
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081231
---
This invention relates generally to providing programs over a shared medium on an on demand basis and in particular to arranging advertisements among the programs based on channel surfing characteristics bearing on a likelihood of a viewer channel surfing.

Video services such as broadcast television and video on demand services are frequently provided to viewers over a shared medium such as a hybrid fiber coaxial network. A headend device coupled to the shared medium provides programs in response to viewer requests generated by a user device such as a set top box that is similarly coupled to the shared medium. The user device receives the requested program from the headend over the shared medium and provides the program for display to the viewer. Service providers are increasingly adding non video services such as telephone services audio services and high speed data access services over the same shared medium used to deliver video services. Because of the finite bandwidth of the shared medium and the large number of users using the shared medium during peak usage times the shared medium may become loaded to capacity preventing the headend from fulfilling a requested service to one or more users. The inability to provide a requested service over the shared medium may lead to user dissatisfaction and may inhibit the service provider from generating additional revenue when the requested service requires payment of an additional fee such as a video on demand request.

Until relatively recently a headend provided all broadcast television channels over the shared medium irrespective of whether each of the television channels had viewers. Consequently valuable bandwidth of the shared medium might be consumed by one or more channels that have no viewers. With the advent of newer technologies such as switched digital video a headend can selectively provide channels over the shared medium depending on whether there are viewers of the respective channels. Channels that have no viewers will not be provided over the shared medium and consequently will not consume bandwidth of the shared medium. This ability to selectively provide broadcast programming on an as requested basis frees bandwidth of the shared medium for other services.

When a viewer requests a channel change in a switched digital video system a channel change request is generated by the user device and is communicated from the user device to the headend which determines whether or not the requested channel is already being provided over the shared medium. If so the headend can merely provide the frequency of the requested channel to the user device which can then tune to that frequency to obtain the requested channel. If the requested channel is not currently being provided over the shared medium the headend will ensure sufficient bandwidth exists on the shared medium and if so will determine an appropriate frequency on which to provide the requested channel begin streaming the requested channel over the shared medium and provide the frequency to the user device. While any viewer may randomly change the channel during a program in a relatively unpredictable manner it is especially common for viewers to change channels referred to herein as channel surfing during the display of advertisements. Consequently when a popular program with a high viewership begins an advertising break a switched digital video system may be required to rapidly provide a relatively high number of new channels over the shared medium in a relatively short period of time to satisfy the channel change requests of the viewers which can quickly consume the bandwidth of the shared medium. As the bandwidth of the shared medium reaches capacity video on demand requests may not be able to be fulfilled and bandwidth allocated to data services may be reduced slowing down Internet access and data downloads.

Channel surfing behavior follows certain patterns based on viewer habits program content and many other factors. Certain viewers are habitual channel surfers and move from channel to channel at the first instance of an advertising break. Other viewers channel surf based on an interest level of the program they were viewing immediately prior to the advertising break. Viewers may be less likely to channel surf from a high interest program for fear of missing a portion of the program should they not return to the program prior to the end of the advertising break but the same viewers may not hesitate to channel surf from a low interest program because they hope not to return to the original program if they can find other programming that interests them more. Moreover the effect of channel surfing on the shared medium differs based on whether the destination channel is already being provided over the shared medium or whether the destination channel must be provided in response to the request which requires allocation of additional bandwidth. Because viewers are more likely to channel surf during an advertising break it would be advantageous if a service provider could allocate advertisements among channels based on surfing behavior of the viewers in a manner that would minimize channel surfing during advertising breaks.

The present invention relates to arranging advertisements among channels being provided over a shared medium based on surfing characteristics of viewers. The surfing characteristics are determined by analyzing data relating to channel changes requested by the viewers over a period of time. By arranging advertisements based on surfing characteristics that bear on a likelihood of a viewer channel surfing the present invention can reduce nearly simultaneous channel surfing by ensuring that an advertisement scheduled on one channel that surfing characteristics indicate will have a high number of channel surfers will not be scheduled at the same time on another channel that surfing characteristics indicate will also have a high number of channel surfers. Reducing nearly simultaneous channel surfing reduces the demand for bandwidth of the shared medium.

According to another embodiment of the invention advertisements are arranged such that a low viewership program is on an advertising break while a high viewership program is not on an advertising break increasing a likelihood that a viewer channel surfing from a low viewership program to a high viewership program will remain on the high viewership program because the high viewership program is not showing advertising at the time of the channel change. If all viewers of a low viewership program channel surf to other channels and remain on such channels for a period of time a data stream carrying the low viewership program can be terminated freeing up bandwidth of the shared medium.

According to one embodiment of the invention a device such as a headend obtains channel surfing information associated with viewers such as channel change requests and related information such as the original channel being viewed prior to the channel change request the destination channel being requested the time of the channel change request the program being played on the original channel and the program being played on the destination channel. Surfing characteristics bearing on a likelihood of a respective viewer channel surfing are determined from the channel surfing information. Channel schedules based on permissible advertising time slots for each of a plurality of channels are determined. Each channel may have a number of permissible advertising time slots and thus a number of channel schedules may be determined for each channel. Some channels such as channels showing live sporting events may be excluded from the channel schedule determination. A plurality of composite schedules based on the potential channel schedules is generated. Each composite schedule is scored based on the channel surfing characteristics of predicted viewers. The composite schedule having the best score is selected and programming is provided with the advertisements according to the selected schedule.

According to another embodiment of the invention channel destination characteristics bearing on a likelihood of a viewer channel surfing to a particular channel are determined. Advertisements are arranged such that likely destination channels are not on an advertising break at the same time as those channels viewers are predicted to be watching are on an advertising break. Viewers that channel surf to the predicted destination channel will be presented programming rather than advertising increasing a likelihood that the viewers will forego additional channel surfing.

According to another embodiment of the invention a high viewership channel is duplicated or replicated such that two channels carry the same programming over the shared medium. A number of user devices tuned to the original channel are requested to tune to the replicated channel. This may be transparent to the viewers of such user devices. Replicating the original channel into two channels enables a composite schedule to be generated that ensures advertising time slots on the original channel differ from advertising time slots on the replicated channel reducing the number of simultaneous channel surfers that would otherwise exist if such viewers went on an advertising break simultaneously.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The headend can comprise any suitable device or group of devices capable of providing video data or other types of services over the shared medium to the user devices . One such service is the provision of broadcast programming via one or more channels A A. Each such channel A A may be viewed by one or more viewers associated with the user devices . For example as shown in viewers associated with the user devices A C are viewing channel A a viewer associated with the user device D is viewing channel A a viewer associated with the user device E is viewing channel A and a viewer associated with the user device F is viewing channel A. Available slots A and B represent additional bandwidth available on the shared medium that may be used to provide an additional channel or other service such as video on demand telephone service high speed data access and the like.

The cable infrastructure of a particular cable service provider typically includes a number of headends and each headend provides feeds to a relatively large number of subscribers. While for purposes of illustration the shared medium is shown as having a relatively simple configuration with connections to a number of user devices it is common for the shared medium to comprise a relatively complex tree and branch hierarchy with multiple splitters and amplifiers to ensure sufficient signal strength to each user device as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The user devices can comprise any suitable equipment capable of interacting over a respective local link and the shared medium with the headend . The local links can comprise any suitable wired or wireless technology capable of coupling the shared medium with the respective user device . For example the user device A may comprise a set top box and the local link A may comprise a coaxial cable. The user device B may comprise a personal computer and the local link B may comprise an Ethernet cable coupled to a cable modem that is in turn coupled to the shared medium . The user device C may comprise a wireless handheld device and the local link C may comprise a wireless technology such as 802.11 or Bluetooth that is coupled to a cable modem. The user device D may comprise a cellular telephone and the local link D may comprise a cellular connection with a cell tower not shown that is coupled to the shared medium . Each of the user devices typically has an associated display device not shown . For example the user device A may have a television monitor the user device B may have a liquid crystal display LCD computer monitor and the user devices C and D have may integrated LCD screens.

The headend may comprise a single piece of equipment or multiple pieces of equipment communicatively coupled together. The headend preferably implements a technology such as switched digital video or the like that enables the headend to provide the channels A A over the shared medium on an as requested basis. Thus even though the service provider may offer a viewer access to 150 channels of television only those channels that have been requested by a user device are being provided over the shared medium . The ability to selectively provide a broadcast feed over the shared medium reduces bandwidth utilization of the shared medium and at peak usage times enables the service provider to provide more services than would otherwise be available if all broadcast channels were always provided over the shared medium irrespective of whether each channel was actually being viewed by at least one viewer.

When a viewer requests a channel change referred to herein as channel surfing the respective user device sends information identifying the desired destination channel to the headend . If the destination channel is already being provided over the shared medium the headend merely provides the appropriate address or frequency of the requested channel to the user device and the user device tunes to that frequency receives the channel and provides the program being carried on the channel for display to the viewer. For example the viewer associated with the user device A may decide to request a channel change from the channel A to the channel A. Using a remote control communicatively coupled to the user device A the viewer indicates a desire to view the channel A. The user device A receives the request and generates and sends a message requesting a channel change to the channel A to the headend . The headend determines that the channel A is already being provided on the shared medium determines the frequency of the channel A and provides the frequency to the user device A. If the viewer had instead requested a channel change to channel A not shown the headend would determine that the channel A is not being provided over the shared medium determine whether existing bandwidth exists on the shared medium and if so select an unused frequency on which the channel A can be provided over the shared medium . Assume that the headend uses the available slot B to provide the channel A. The headend provides the frequency to the user device A and begins providing the requested channel A over the shared medium on the selected frequency. The user device A tunes to the provided frequency and provides the channel A to the viewer.

Assume further that a viewer associated with the user device B requests a channel change to channel A not shown . The process described above with respect to the channel A is repeated and the available slot A is used to provide the channel A over the shared medium . Because the viewer associated with the user device C continues to view the channel A the channel A continues to be provided over the shared medium . However note that no additional available slots remain. Assume that a viewer associated with the user device G requests a video on demand program. The user device G generates and sends a message requesting the video on demand program from the headend . The headend determines that no remaining bandwidth is available on the shared medium and indicates to the user device G that the video on demand request cannot be fulfilled.

Note that as each viewer requests a channel change the associated user device generates a message that is sent to the headend identifying the channel change request. According to one embodiment of the invention channel change request information is retained so that surfing characteristics bearing on a likelihood of a viewer channel surfing can be determined. The channel change information that is retained can include information such as one or more of the original channel being viewed by the viewer prior to the channel change request the destination channel requested by the channel change request the identity of the program being provided on the original channel the identity of the program being provided on the requested destination channel whether or not the channel change request occurred during an advertising break the time of the channel change request and any other suitable information or statistics that may be useful in determining surfing characteristics. The channel change information can be retained by the respective user device by the headend or by other equipment in the service provider s network. Such information may be retained in a privacy compliant manner for use by a respective service provider as discussed herein. The channel change information may be captured by an application maintained in each user device and provided to a central server not shown associated with the service provider.

Viewers are generally more likely to request channel changes or channel surf during advertising breaks than when programming is being displayed. Many viewers simultaneously channel surfing may cause resource difficulties for the headend due to processing many channel change requests at once and from having to allocate newly requested channels on the shared medium . Consequently the arrangement of advertising on the channels A A sometimes referred to herein as an advertising schedule can impact the amount of simultaneous channel surfing. For example if the channels A A each have an advertisement scheduled to be provided to the viewer at 4 22 PM it is possible that all six of the viewers associated with the user devices A F may begin to channel surf at 4 22 PM. If each such viewer nearly simultaneously requests a different channel the headend will have to rapidly process each channel change request determine whether the requested destination channel is already being provided on the shared medium and if not will need to obtain bandwidth on the shared medium to provide the requested destination channel. Note that for any of the viewers that select one of the other channels A A as the requested destination channel it is likely that the viewer will issue yet another channel change request as soon as they determine such requested destination channel is also on an advertising break. Now assume that an advertising break is scheduled on the channel A for 4 22 PM an advertising break is scheduled on the channel A for 4 18 PM an advertising break is scheduled on the channel A for 4 20 PM and an advertising break is scheduled for the channel A for 4 24 PM. Further assume that each advertising break is two minutes long. At 4 22 PM viewers associated with the user devices A C may issue channel change requests but the viewers associated with the user devices D F likely will not issue channel change requests at that time because they are not on an advertising break. Further if any of the viewers associated with the user devices A C request the channels A A as a destination channel there is a likelihood they will continue to view the requested destination channel for at least a period of time to determine whether they enjoy the programming on that respective channel or not.

For information relating to techniques for advertising insertion into digital video streams please consult Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers SCTE 130 1 2008 entitled Digital Program Insertion Advertising Systems Interfaces Part 1 Advertising Systems Overview Informative SCTE 130 2 2008a entitled Digital Program Insertion Advertising Systems Interfaces Part 2 Core Data Elements SCTE 130 3 2008a entitled Digital Program Insertion Advertising Systems Interfaces Part 3 Ad Management Service ADM Interface and SCTE 130 4 2008a entitled Digital Program Insertion Advertising Systems Interfaces Part 4 Content Information Service CIS all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

According to one embodiment of the present invention an advertising schedule is generated for a plurality of channels based on surfing characteristics to reduce simultaneous channel surfing. The advertising schedule may be determined for all channels that can be provided over the shared medium or may be determined for only some of the channels that can be provided over the shared medium . The channels that are included in the advertising schedule may depend on the time of day covered by the advertising schedule. If it is not possible to determine with certainty the timing of advertising breaks for certain programs such as live sporting events channels showing live sporting events may be excluded from the advertising schedule if desired. Other programming such as an infomercial program is in essence one long advertising break and may be excluded from the advertising schedule. According to the present invention the advertising schedule may be generated at predetermined times such as every other hour and cover only the period of time until the next advertising schedule. Alternately the advertising schedule may be generated in response to a determination that a loading threshold associated with the shared medium has been exceeded. For example an advertising schedule may be generated if the available bandwidth on the shared medium is less than 20 of the total bandwidth of the shared medium .

The advertising schedule according to the present invention is selected from a plurality of composite schedules which are generated from individual channel schedules. illustrates channel schedules for a channel A having a plurality of different permissible advertising time slots for two advertising breaks and . It is assumed that permissible advertising time slots are 8 04 PM and 8 06 PM for the first advertising break and 8 24 PM and 8 26 PM for the second advertising break . Since there are two permissible time slots for each of the two advertising breaks and there are four different potential channel schedules. A channel schedule has the advertising break scheduled at an 8 04 PM advertising time slot and the advertising break scheduled at an 8 24 PM advertising time slot. A channel schedule has the advertising break scheduled at an 8 04 PM advertising time slot and the advertising break scheduled at an 8 26 PM advertising time slot. A channel schedule has the advertising break scheduled at an 8 06 PM advertising time slot and the advertising break scheduled at an 8 24 PM advertising time slot. A channel schedule has the advertising break scheduled at an 8 06 PM advertising time slot and the advertising break scheduled at an 8 26 PM advertising time slot.

While for purposes of illustration the channel A is shown having two potential time slots for the first advertising break and two potential time slots for the second advertising break in practice it may be permissible to have a time slot at anytime between two specific times of day such as between 8 04 PM and 8 06 PM. Thus there may be a number of permissible time slots between 8 04 PM and 8 06 PM. The amount of time between two distinct time slots can be implementation dependent. According to one embodiment of the invention time slots can vary by as little time as one second. In the example illustrated in if time slots can be offset by one second and advertising time slots can be initiated at anytime between 8 04 PM and 8 06 PM there are 120 permissible time slots for the advertising break one permissible time slot for each second between 8 04 PM and 8 06 PM. Similarly if the advertising break can occur at any time between 8 24 PM and 8 26 PM there would be 120 permissible time slots for the advertising break one permissible time slot for each second between 8 24 PM and 8 26 PM. Consequently while only four channel schedules are shown in there may be many channel schedules for each respective channel depending on the number of permissible time slots available.

According to one embodiment of the invention permissible time slots are created through the use of time scale modification of the programming with which the advertisement will be presented. Time scale modification involves subtly slowing or increasing the speed at which a program is displayed in a manner that is not disruptive to the viewer as is known to those skilled in the art. According to one embodiment of the invention time scale modification may be implemented in the user devices enabling advertisement insertion at identified splice points within the respective video stream associated with a program. Time scale modification can be used to alter the originally scheduled time of an advertisement to an earlier or later time. For example an advertisement may be scheduled on a particular channel to be displayed at 8 04 PM. However the present invention may determine that through time scale modification the advertisement can be played on the channel at any time between 8 02 30 8 05 30 PM by imperceptibly speeding up or slowing down the display of the program. With this information for the purposes of generating an advertising schedule the present invention can generate channel schedules for the channel having permissible time slots between 8 02 30 PM and 8 05 30 PM.

After channel schedules have been generated the present invention determines a plurality of composite schedules that group the plurality of channel schedules into each possible permutation given the individual channel schedules. is an illustration of four simplistic composite schedules according to one embodiment of the invention. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that an advertising schedule is being generated for only two channels the channel A shown in and the channel A shown in . Each composite schedule shows a different potential advertising schedule based on the potential channel schedules associated with the channels A and A. It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that in a practical implementation there would be a large number of composite schedules based on all the permutations associated with multiple channel schedules for each of multiple channels.

Composite schedules are then generated from the channel schedules generated for each channel as illustrated in . Any mechanism for arranging the channel schedules of each channel into all possible permutations of all channels into a plurality of composite schedules may be used to generate the composite schedules. In one embodiment a Cartesian product of all potential composite schedules is generated based on all potential channel schedules for each channel that is included in the advertising schedule.

In this manner scores based on channel surfing characteristics can be determined for each of the composite scores and the composite schedule having the lowest score can be selected since the lowest score represents the schedule with the least amount of predicted aggregate simultaneous channel surfers. It should be clear to those skilled in the art that determining a surfing factor based on a percentage of the time a viewer channel surfs is only one way to quantify channel surfing of a viewer and that any suitable manner for quantifying channel surfing based on the channel change information obtained from the user devices can be used in the present invention.

According to one embodiment of the invention composite scores are based on a likelihood of viewers channel surfing from a low viewership program to a high viewership program. Low viewership programs require the same bandwidth utilization of the shared medium as a high viewership program. Consequently the shared medium may be loaded to capacity simply because a number of viewers are each watching separate relatively unpopular channels. If such viewers channel surf to a high viewership program that is already being provided over the shared medium then the bandwidth used by the low viewership program can be de allocated assuming no other viewers are viewing the low viewership program. According to one embodiment of the invention composite schedules that contain advertising slots for popular channels that do not overlap with advertising slots for unpopular channels are scored higher than composite schedules that contain advertising slots for popular channels that do overlap with advertising slots for unpopular channels. Scoring a composite schedule based on overlap of advertising on popular programs versus unpopular programs can be accomplished for example by increasing a score of a composite schedule for each occurrence that an advertisement slot of an unpopular program does not overlap an advertisement of a popular program.

According to another embodiment of the invention viewer destination characteristics bearing on a likelihood of a viewer selecting a particular destination channel are used to arrange advertising slots such that likely destination channels are not on an advertising break while other channels that are likely to be viewed are on an advertising break. Viewer destination characteristics may be determined by analyzing channel surfing information or predicted by analyzing viewer profile information indicating an interest of the respective viewers. For example channel surfing information may indicate that viewers of the Golf Channel typically surf to ESPN when the Golf channel is on an advertising break. Composite scores can be calculated such that the cost associated with an advertisement slot is lowered if programs that predicted viewers of that channel favor are not on advertising break at the same time.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a channel having a high number of actual or predicted viewers can be duplicated or replicated for the purpose of reducing simultaneous channel surfers. is a block diagram of a channel A carrying a popular program and having two advertising breaks and respectively. Assume that the program is a season premiere of a very popular television series. Thus there is a high likelihood of significant channel surfing during the advertisement breaks and . is a block diagram illustrating the channel A and a replicated channel B. The channel A and the replicated channel B carry the same programming but the advertising breaks for each channel have been assigned to different time slots such that the advertising breaks do not overlap. Time scale modification may be used to move the advertising breaks on the replicated channel B to different times from that on the channel A. Channel replication may be initiated by the headend on an as needed basis and may be transparent to the viewers of the channel. The headend can determine that channel replication is desirable obtain a new frequency to carry the replicated channel B begin providing the replicated channel B on the new frequency select a number of user devices that are currently tuned to the channel A and direct the user devices to tune to the new frequency. While channel replication will require additional bandwidth of the shared medium to carry the replicated channel B channel surfing may be significantly reduced to an extent that extra usage of bandwidth is a desirable tradeoff for reduced channel surfing.

An interface can comprise one or more interfaces to communicate with external devices as appropriate. For example the interface may include an Ethernet interface to communicate with other devices useful in providing video services such as a network feed receiver a video server quadrature amplitude modulators and the like. While the headend is illustrated herein as having a particular division of functionality among particular modules such division of functionality among particular modules is design dependent and the invention is not limited thereto. For example the functionality of the channel surfing reduction module the schedule enforcement module and the session resource manager can be implemented in a single module or can be further divided into more than three modules without departing from the scope of the invention. Moreover the headend may be a single device as illustrated in or may comprise multiple devices communicatively coupled together. Certain functionality may be implemented in software firmware an application specific integrated circuit or the like as desired.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

