---

title: Systems and methods for providing access to medical information
abstract: Various aspects and embodiments of the present invention relate to providing a medical application with access to medical information from validated medical information experts. The medical information experts can be validated by scoring attributes of a purported medical information expert, generating a rank based on the score, and comparing the score to a pre-set threshold. The medical information from validated medical information experts can be stored in a knowledge database. A request from a medical application can be received and used to search the knowledge database to generate a response to the request that includes part of the medical information. The response can be provided to the medical application in a format that can be customized by the medical application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08145644&OS=08145644&RS=08145644
owner: Interfix, LLC
number: 08145644
owner_city: Newaygo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080730
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 952 936 filed Jul. 31 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Access to Medical Transcription Information the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to providing access to medical information that may be used by a computer implemented medical application.

Computer implemented medical applications can include software programs utilized by medical personnel for performing various tasks and services associated with providing medical services. The medical applications may be used to obtain and or confirm administrative and substantive information regarding a medical event. Examples of such medical applications include medical coding electronic health record systems medical billing systems speech recognition systems and medical transcription applications. A medical event may be an office visit by the patient diagnosis treatment medical research medical topic for classroom instruction or otherwise or any event associated with a medical area for which administrative and or substantive information may be needed or confirmed. The medical event may be an office visit by a patient for which a medical provider such as a doctor generated notes medical documentation or patient instructions.

For example medical transcription generally involves converting spoken words of a clinician into a text format in electronic form. Examples of content that may be transcribed include notes regarding a patient s visit to the clinician a hospital or clinic visit or a recommended or prescribed medication or treatment plan. Typically medical transcriptionists listen to tapes or voice files containing the clinician s spoken words or acronyms and transcribe them into a text format by entering the text into a word processing or medical transcription software application using a keyboard. Electronic speech recognition software may also automatically detect the clinician s spoken words or acronyms and transcribe them into a text format. A medical transcriptionist may still need to review the transcription to correct spelling formatting interpretive errors or abbreviations that may introduce dangers if incorrectly transcribed as identified by a regulatory agency or expand an acronym to its full word or phrase.

Medical transcriptionists and medical personnel using other medical applications may need to produce a very high quality and accurate work product while meeting completion deadlines. Often they perform a significant amount of research to meet quality standards before the clinician will approve the work product. For example medical personnel may need to consult medical dictionaries online resources or other reference material to determine an accurate spelling of a word or other information such as another physician s complete contact information. Such reference material may include electronic and paper based tools such as word lists medical dictionaries and drug references. At least some of the reference materials however may not be up to date in view of the rapid and robust pace at which vocabularies and information changes in the medical field. Use of such reference materials may result in a work product that contains inaccurate incomplete or otherwise lower quality terminology. The effect of such work product could result in incorrect diagnosis or treatment leading to less than adequate patient care. Such inadequate care can result in physical harm or even death to the patient.

Accordingly a need exists for systems and methods that provide medical application users with access to up to date medical information that includes reference material. Furthermore a need exists for systems and methods that provide medical application users with access to reference material in a timely manner.

Systems and methods according to some embodiments of the present invention provide a medical application with access to medical information. Attributes of a data source are received. The attributes are scored to generate a ranking of the data source. The data source is determined to be a medical information expert based on the ranking. Medical information is received from the data source that is or otherwise associated with the medical information expert. The medical information is stored in a knowledge database. A medical information request is received from the medical application. The knowledge database is searched based on the medical information request to generate a response to the medical information request. The response includes at least part of the medical information. The response is returned to the medical application in a format adapted to be customized by the medical application.

In some embodiments the attributes include an identification attribute a certification attribute a historical information attribute a medical information type attribute and or a volume attribute.

Systems and methods according to various embodiments of the present invention provide medical information from a knowledge database to a medical application. The knowledge database can include medical information from data sources associated with verified and trusted medical information experts. In some embodiments the knowledge database includes medical information from medical information experts that have been validated using pre set criteria. For example attributes of a purported medical information expert can be received. The attributes can be scored using pre set criteria. A ranking can be generated from the scored attributes and compared to a pre set threshold. If the ranking exceeds the pre set threshold the purported medical information expert is identified as a medical information expert and its medical information is received and stored in the knowledge database. In some embodiments the medical information is continuously updated to provide up to date and accurate medical information to medical applications.

A medical information request from a medical application can be received. The medical information from medical information experts in the knowledge database can be searched based on the medical information request. Search results that include medical information in response to the request can be provided to the medical application. The medical information may be useful to medical personnel and in a format that the medical application can customize to its needs and requirements.

In some embodiments the information portal is a processor based device that includes a computer readable medium such as memory . The memory is configured to store executable code such as a portal engine . As described in more detail below the portal engine may be configured to perform data source validation store data in the knowledge database provide web page services and or provide data from the knowledge database to the medical application over the network . The portal engine may one or more software applications. In addition the one or more software applications may be located on one or more devices that are collectively the information portal . Examples of the information portal include a server and computer. The network may be any type of data network examples of which include the Internet wide area network WAN local area network LAN or a combination of these and other type of networks.

The user device may include a processor and a computer readable medium such as memory . A medical application may be stored in memory and adapted to be executed by the processor . The user device may be adapted to be used by medical personnel to access the medical application and perform medical information related tasks. The medical application may be configured manually or automatically to submit a request for medical information over the network to the information portal . The user device can also include an input device not shown to receive inputs or other commands from a user and an output device not shown to provide information such as on a user interface to a user.

The one or more data sources may each be associated with a purported medical information expert such as a medical information provider that may be capable of providing trusted medical information. As described in more detail below the portal engine may be capable of determining if the one or more data sources is associated with a medical information expert based on attributes of the medical information expert and if so receiving medical information from the one or more data sources . The one or more data sources can include a database server or other device capable of sending data to the information portal .

The knowledge database may be a searchable database that includes medical information stored on a computer readable medium. Examples of knowledge databases include a flat file database relational database and a redundant array of independent disk RAID . In the embodiment illustrated in the information portal is connected directly to knowledge database . The knowledge database may also be connected to the information portal over a network such as the Internet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . In some embodiments the knowledge database is associated with a server or other processor based device through which it can communicate with the information portal . In other embodiments the information portal can include the knowledge database . The knowledge database can contain a variety of medical information or other information that is indexed in a searchable format. The knowledge database may be configured to continuously receive updates to the medical information from the one or more data sources through the network and information portal .

In some embodiments the knowledge database includes a knowledgebase web farm and a knowledgebase service cluster. The knowledgebase web farm may include web servers that can host content such as medical information that is indexed. The knowledgebase service cluster may include database servers hosting different aspects of the knowledge database . For example one database server may include physician lookup and a separate database server may include medical definitions. The knowledgebase web farm and knowledgebase service cluster may be connected by a network link. The network link can be the Internet LAN and or WAN or a combination of these and other type of networks. In some embodiments the medical application identifies the type of medical information it seeks or otherwise limits its request to particular medical information. The portal engine can use the identification to limit its search or the medical application s access to certain medical information or databases.

In some embodiments the medical information from the knowledge database can be used by the medical application as a resource to determine information needed to confirm correct information or otherwise to use the information as updated and correct information in a medical related task. For example the medical application may be a transcription application used by medical personnel to transcribe notes generated by a medical provider. The medical information can be used by the medical application to confirm a spelling of a medical term confirm the correct address for a medical provider and or determine the medical term associated with an acronym in the medical provider s notes. The information portal can be configured to provide requested medical information to the medical application over the network and in a format that can be customized by the medical application for its particular needs and purposes.

Various methods according to various embodiments of the present invention can be used to determine if a data source is a medical information expert and provide a medical application with access to medical information from the medical information expert. is flow diagram of one embodiment of a method for validating data sources and providing access to information from validated data sources. For purposes of illustration only the elements of this method are described with reference to the system depicted in and the flow chart depicted in . Other implementations are also possible.

The method may begin at block when the portal engine validates a medical information expert. In some embodiments the portal engine validates a medical information expert based on attributes received from a data source associated with a purported medical information expert. For example the portal engine may receive a request to provide medical information from a data source that includes attributes of the purported medical information expert associated with the data source . In some embodiments the portal engine periodically submits requests to potential medical information experts for them to submit attributes that can be scored. In other embodiments the medical information expert provides the request to the portal engine .

The portal engine can use any method to determine if the data source is associated with a medical information expert based on attributes. In one embodiment the attribute is a certification attribute in which the purported medical information expert is certified by a third party such as the Association for Healthcare Documentation Integrity AHDI . A score of the certification attribute with the credentials from the third party may be positive or other indicator that the purported medical information expert is a trusted source and the purported medical information expert is identified as a medical information expert. Medical information is received from it thereafter. Other methods may be used that include validation based on a certification attribute. Some methods use other types of attributes to validate.

In block the portal engine determines attribute values for each attribute received from the data source . In some embodiments the portal engine can analyze the attributes and identify the specific value associated with each attribute. For example an identification attribute can include a name of the purported medical information expert associated with data source . A history attribute can include historical information on the purported medical information expert s past activities in providing medical information. Examples of historical information include the entities to which the data source has provided medical information the amount of time the data source has provided medical information and reasons if any why the data source no longer provides medical information to certain entities. A certification attribute can identify the industry or governmental groups such as AHDI that certify the data source . An affiliation attribute can identify the industry or governmental groups to which the data source is a member. A type of medical information attribute can identify the category of medical information the data source can provide. An amount of medical information attribute can identify the number of medical information data elements the data source can provide. Other attributes may be implemented in some embodiments of the present invention.

In block the portal engine scores each attribute to generate a ranking for the data source . Attributes can be scored based on the value of each attribute. In some embodiments the ranking is a composite of the score for each attribute. In other embodiments the ranking includes a ranking for each attribute. One attribute may be scored and ranked or more than one attribute may be scored and ranked. The portal engine can score each attribute using the same or different methods. In some embodiments the portal engine scores an attribute by comparing the attribute value to a table of information identifying standard values and a score for each value. The portal engine can look the attribute value up in the table by matching the attribute value to the standard value and identifying the score associated with that standard value. The portal engine may also identify a rank for the attribute value based on the score. In some embodiments the table of information includes a rank associated with each standard value.

For example the portal engine can use the value of an identification attribute to look the purported medical information expert up in a table that includes standard values of the identification attribute stored in memory . The table can include an identification of medical information experts and a score or rank for each of the medical information expert listed in the table. If the portal engine locates the purported medical information expert in the table it can assign the score or rank associated with the purported medical information expert. The score or rank for each medical information expert in a table may be generated by the portal engine based on criteria provided to the portal engine or the score or rank may be received from another source.

The table may include a list of any purported or potential medical information experts. For example the United States Food and Drug Administration FDA is a government agency administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services and may be one medical information expert listed in the table. The FDA is responsible for protecting the public health by assuring the safety efficacy and security of human and veterinary drugs. Medical information generated by the FDA is often subject to a high level of scientific and research standards. Based on such criteria the FDA or similar medical information expert may be scored relatively high as a trusted source of medical information.

Private organizations and research institutions may also publish information for healthcare research. Some publications experience a relatively high level of peer review or other metrics that analyze the accuracy or other factors associated with the information. Some publications do not provide for a relatively high level or review and analysis. Some of the private organizations can be included in the table and associated with a score that reflects the amount of review and analysis performed on the information generated by the private organization. In some embodiments scores range from one to ten or from one to one hundred where a score of one reflects a highly ranked medical information expert and a score of ten or one hundred reflects a low ranked medical information expert.

Other attributes may be scored on the same or different scale and using the same or different methods. For attributes scored on a different scale the portal engine may be configured to normalize the scores before generating a composite rank for the purported medical information expert. Examples of scoring other attributes include the following 

Once attributes of a purported medical information expert have been scored a ranking is generated by the portal engine. The ranking may be a composite ranking of all the scored attributes. For example the ranking may be an average ranking for the scored attributes. In some embodiments attributes may be weighted higher or lower such that scores for some attributes effect the composite ranking more.

After the ranking is generated based on the score the portal engine determines if the ranking exceeds a pre set threshold in block . In some embodiments the pre set threshold is determined based on survey statistics and standard data on existing medical information experts and the attributes associated with them. The pre set threshold may be any number rank or other scoring scale associated with the scale of the composite ranking. For example the pre set threshold may be four for a ranking scale of one to ten in which one represents a highly ranked purported medical information expert and a rank of ten represents a low ranked purported medical information expert. Rankings of one to three are higher than the pre set threshold of four while rankings from four to ten are not higher.

The process of ranking based on one or more attributes and comparing a composite rank to a pre set threshold allows a purported medical information expert to be validated as a medical information expert even if they do not score highly for some attributes but score highly in others. For example a relatively unknown purported medical information provider may not score high on the identification attribute or history information attribute but score high for the certification attribute and type of medical information attribute. In some embodiments a ranking for each attribute is compared to a pre set threshold to determine if a certain number of attributes exceed the threshold.

If the ranking is greater than the pre set threshold e.g. the ranking is higher ranked than four in the example above or a certain number of attributes rank higher than a pre set threshold the portal engine identifies the purported medical information expert as a medical information expert in block . For example the portal engine may certify that the purported medical information expert is an entity from which the portal engine will accept data and provide the medical information expert with a passcode electronic key or other identifiable file electronic or otherwise to prepare to receive medical information from the medical information expert. In some embodiments the pre set threshold is one hundred percent or another value that requires the attributes of the purported medical information expert to meet standards previously established in the portal engine before it is considered as a trusted source.

If the ranking is less than the pre set threshold the portal engine may refuse to accept medical information from the purported medical information expert in block .

Returning to after a medical information expert associated with a data source is validated the portal engine can receive medical information from the validated medical information expert in block . In some embodiments the portal engine receives a passcode electronic key or similar identification that the medical information expert has been validated each time it receives medical information from the medical information expert. Examples of medical information include physician name and address correct spelling of medical terms definitions of medical related acronyms and ranges for medical parameters. For example the medical information can include a realistic range for a medical parameter such as blood pressure. The realistic range can be used by a medical application to determine if a transcribed note for example falls outside the realistic range indicating the note was likely transcribed incorrectly.

The medical information can include data elements. Each data element includes specific medical related information. The data elements can also relate to each other. For example a group of data elements may include specific medical related information associated with one topic. The medical information may be continuously received by the portal engine from the medical information expert. In some embodiments the portal engine is configured to periodically request medical information from the medical information expert.

In block the portal engine stores and indexes the medical information in the knowledge database . For example the portal engine may index the medical information based on the topic to which it relates and or topics of medical information already stored in the knowledge database . In other embodiments the portal engine indexes the medical information based on the source of the information such as by medical information expert. Instead of indexing and storing the medical information some embodiments of the portal engine send the medical information to the knowledge database and the knowledge database is configured to index and store the medical information.

In block the portal engine receives a search request for medical information from the medical application . The search request may include any type of request for medical related information that may be stored in the knowledge database . Examples of search requests include a physician name and or address lookup spell check and parameter range lookup. In some embodiments the request may include the parameters of the search. In other embodiments the request includes values to be searched but not search parameters. The portal engine may require the medical application to provide credentials along with its request. The credentials can include a username passcode unique identifier and or any other identifier such as those used in subscription based services. In some embodiments the portal engine does not require credentials from the medical application before access to its services is provided.

In block the portal engine may validate the medical application to determine if it can access the knowledge database . In some embodiments the portal engine services medical applications that have subscribed to services provided by the portal engine . The portal engine may receive medical application credentials such as username password or other account credentials and determine if the medical application is a subscriber to the service. In other embodiments the portal engine does not validate the medical application and instead provides access to the medical application if the portal engine receives an appropriate request for information.

In block the portal engine formulates a search for medical information in the knowledge database based on the request from the medical application . In some embodiments the portal engine passes the request to the knowledge database. In other embodiments the portal engine formulates search parameters based on the specific information in the request. For example the portal engine may formulate search parameters that correspond to the indexing system in the knowledge database and based on the subject of the request from the medical application .

In block the portal engine sends the formulated search to the knowledge database . In some embodiments the portal engine conducts the search on the knowledge database by accessing the medical information stored in the knowledge database and identifying medical information responsive to the search parameters. In other embodiments the portal engine provides the formulated search to the knowledge database where the knowledge database performs the search on its contents. Search algorithms such as least edit or phonetic matching algorithms may be used in some embodiments to provide results relevant to the search parameters.

In block information responsive to the formulated search is received by the portal engine . The information may include one or more data elements in which information relevant to the formulated search parameters are stored. The responsive information may be received in any format. An example of a format includes an extensible markup language XML format. In some embodiments the portal engine processes the responsive information to further refine or otherwise remove certain information if it is not particularly relevant to the request from the medical application .

In block the portal engine provides the results to the medical application in a format that is adapted to be customized by the medical application . For example the results may be in a format in which the medical application can customize its presentation or use for a user. Examples of formats that are adapted to be customized by the medical application include XML hypertext markup language HTML and representational state transfer REST . Examples of customized presentations include data that is selectable by a user automatically inserting results in an electronic document or file and ordering the search results in a preferred method.

Any type of medical information can be stored in knowledge database and provided to medical application . Examples of medical information include normal ranges for treatment protocols and colloquialisms. Normal ranges may be the normal range of a characteristic typically measured during a treatment protocol such as a cancer protocol. The normal range may be a range in which measured values of the characteristic could potentially fall. Values outside the normal range may indicate nonsensical values that may be erroneous. Colloquialisms may include slang or other saying particular to a dialect of a language or other sub language group. They can be helpful for example when a medical transcriptionist is not familiar with the slang used in notes or other documentation they are transcribing but need to determine the correct word and spelling used.

In some embodiments the information portal may include or connected to a web server. The portal engine may be configured to generate a web page on which responses can be provided to users. For example the portal engine can include a medical services application that is web based and provided to a user s computer or other device over a network such as the Internet or an intranet. The medical services application may be any application in which medical information can be entered formatted and or processed. Examples of medical services application can include a medical transcription application electronic health record system medical coding medical billing system and speech recognition systems. The medical services application can be used by medical personnel to enter and organize information over the network. In some embodiments the work created by the medical personnel using the medical services application can be saved on the information portal or another location on the network. In other embodiments the work created can be stored on the user s device.

The portal engine can be configured to provide the medical services application with access to medical information from medical information experts that is stored in the knowledge database . Instead of providing a response to a request for medical information in a format that can be customized by a medical application the portal engine can generate a web page that includes the response and or integrate the response with the work being created by the user. For example the medical services application may be used to enter notes from a patient s visit in which the medical provider suggested that the patient see a specialist. The medical services application can submit a request for the correct spelling of the specialist s name and his or her office address. A response can be returned and automatically inserted in an appropriate area in the work being created by the medical personnel. Another example may be a medical transcription application in which the portal engine is configured to automatically identify suspect words such as those that may be spelled incorrectly or have different meanings depending on the context of their use. In some embodiments the portal engine can automatically provide information from the knowledge database regarding the suspect words.

The following describes examples of using certain specific embodiments of the present invention to provide a medical application with access to medical information from medical information experts. The examples are described with reference to which illustrate graphical user interfaces generated by a medical application that is a medical transcription application. However other types of medical applications can be used with various embodiments of the present invention and various user interfaces can be provided by such medical applications. Medical transcription often involves converting spoken or hand written words of a clinician into a text format in electronic form. The transcriptionist often consults medical dictionaries online resources or other reference material to determine an accurate spelling of a word definition of an abbreviation an acceptable range for a clinical result a physician s contact information and or other information. In an exemplary embodiment the transcriptionist interacts with a medical transcription software application at a work station.

Medical information experts are validated and medical information from medical information experts is received and stored in a knowledge database. The medical information experts are validated by receiving attributes of the medical information experts and scoring the attributes to determine that the medical information expert meets criteria of a trusted data source.

The medical transcription application can access the medical information through an information portal. The information portal provides requested medical information to the medical transcription application in an XML format that the medical transcription application can customize and display all or part of the returned medical information to a user on a graphical user interface. The workstation and medical transcription application communicate via the Internet with the information portal to receive medical information. The description of below provide examples that illustrate uses of medical information from validated medical information experts by a medical transcription application.

The medical transcription application illustrated in connects to the Internet and enters a validation process through a portal engine. The portal engine is an application executing on an information portal that is a server such as a web server connected to the Internet and associated with an Internet address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL . The portal engine services the medical transcription application by providing access to a knowledge database containing medical information from one or more validated medical information experts. The medical information can include medical reference publications on various medical topics physician names and address and or medical dictionaries.

A medical transcriptionist logs into the medical transcription application and selects one or more medical reference publications from which to search as illustrated in . These medical reference publications may be stored in the medical knowledge database. The medical transcription application can access these medical reference publications in the medical knowledge database through the portal engine. The medical transcription application receives information about these reference publications from the medical knowledge database and customizes the results to present the medical transcriptionist with a list of reference publications form which to choose. In the example illustrated in the medical transcriptionist is presented with a dialog box offering choices including a number of Stedman s publications and or the Quick Look Drug Book. The medical transcriptionist may select one or more of the medical reference publications from which to search. The examples below may include search results from the selected Quick Look Drug Book Stedman s Abbreviations Acronyms Symbols 3e Stedman s Medical Dictionary 28e and Stedman s Medical Terms and Phrases for example. Alternatively all of the reference publications can be selected for search. Once the medical reference publications are selected the transcriptionist may select the Apply button and begin transcribing a medical document.

Other examples of the type of information that can be accessed from the knowledge database are shown in . For example selecting the AHDI icon in this example allows the medical transcription application to access the AHDI Normal Lab Values reference database within the medical knowledge database. Here the medical transcriptionist selects a Category icon which present a dialog box with a list of categories. The medical transcriptionist selects the Cardiopulmonary Lab category as shown in . Again the medical transcription application contacts the information portal engine to access the medical knowledge database. The information portal engine searches the AHDI Normal Lab Values reference database within the medical knowledge database. The results of the search are formatted by the information portal engine to be customized by the medical transcription application. As shown in the results are presented in a list of Items and Normal Values . This information would allow a medical transcriptionist to verify information they are translating into electronic text form is within normal range of values. In this example the normal range of values for a Cardiac Index is 2.5 4.2 L min m2. If the medical transcriptionist reads a handwritten note from a medical doctor in which the doctor wrote a patient has a normal Cardiac Index and the medical transcriptionist understood from the notes that the patient s Cardiac index is between 25.0 or 2.5 L min m2 the transcriptionist could ascertain the index more likely is 2.5 L min m2 because 25.0 L min m2 would have been significantly outside the normal range.

In still another embodiment illustrated by other types of information can also be searched in the medical knowledge database. illustrates a contact information tool that allows a user or the medical transcriptionist to look up contact information for a health care provider. In this example the medical transcriptionist uses a physician look up tool in the medical transcription application. A dialog box allows the medical transcriptionist to enter such information as first last name medical specialty city state and zip code. In this example the medical transcriptionist enters the letters jo in both the first and last name fields of the dialog box . Again the medical transcription application requests the services of the information portal engine to search a contact information database within the medical knowledge database for contact information about a particular physician. The results of the search are formatted by the information portal engine to be customized by the medical transcription application. These results appear in a list of physician contacts . If the medical transcriptionist selects a particular physician s name for example in this case John R. Johansson a pop up dialog box appears with more detailed contact information about the physician.

These and other embodiment and features of the medical transcription application are designed to take advantage of the information stored in the medical knowledge database and the processes managed by the information portal engine. These features are also designed to improve the accuracy of the medical information contained in a patient s health care record.

The foregoing description of the embodiments including preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented only for the purpose of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Numerous modifications adaptations and uses thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.

