---

title: Universal scan to store system and method of using the same
abstract: A free-standing universal scanner driving device includes a small, light-weight, portable, slow-speed, low memory processor with no monitor or keyboard, and programmed only to support a scanner; a memory having only enough capacity to hold a scanner driver; a slot for receiving an external storage medium; input and output ports; means for writing data on the external storage medium; a housing case; optionally an external numeric keypad; and one and only one push-button, touch pad, or touch screen for initiating an external optical scanner to scan a document placed in the scanner and then directly write the scanned electronic data into the external storage medium by pushing the button, without requiring any setup input from the user. The push-button, touch pad, or touch screen being integrally formed on the case.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08023136&OS=08023136&RS=08023136
owner: 
number: 08023136
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080314
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 448 079 filed May 30 2003.

This invention relates generally to a single touch scan to store system. In particular the system includes a portable free standing universal scanner driver device for a person to scan a document via a scanner directly to a storage media therein from a single interaction with any scanner available in situ.

Document scanners are widely used for both business and home purposes. The optical scanner market continues to explode. Optical scanners differ from one another in terms of scanning technology resolution bit depth size and shape. There are hand held scanners sheet fed scanners flatbed scanners like photocopy machines and overhead scanners like overhead projectors .

An optical scanner reads text or images printed on paper and translates the information into digital data to be stored in a file displayed on a screen and manipulated by programs. Most optical scanners do not distinguish text from images represented as bit maps . Therefore a computer is required to edit text. To translate the image into ASCII characters an optical character recognition OCR software is required to be installed in the computer. Typically an analog to digital converter in the scanner processes the analog signal to generate a digital representation of this image. Most optical scanners sold today come with OCR packages. Current scanners require a variety of user intervention to carry out the scanning process and effectively store the document on a storage device such as a disk CD or network share.

For example HP ScanJet II cx is compatible with Macintosh and IBM compatible PC s. For the Macintosh hardware the scanner can be connected directly to an existing SCSI interface. The recommended requirements for the Macintosh include 5 8 megabytes of RAM the minimum is 4 6 megabytes of available disk space for installation of software DeskScan II and or Adobe Photoshop and operation system software version 7.0 or greater minimum is 6.0.7 . For the PC the scanner requires an adapter card to be installed in the system. The software that does the actual scanning is called DeskScan II on both Macintosh and PC . The image processing software is Adobe Photoshop for the Macintosh and Aldus PhotoStyler and Image Assistant for the PC. The DeskScan II software does the actual scanning and includes some adjustments. The following are a few of the adjustments that can be made adjusting the selection area changing exposure settings choosing a new image type sharpening the image or scaling the image to the right size. To enhance the images beyond what DeskScan offers requires image processing software such as Adobe Photoshop for the Macintosh or Aldus PhotoStyler and Image Assistant for the PC.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 166 830 shows an integrated scan to store apparatus having a single housing unit a flatbed scanner a CPU a monitor screen commands for controlling or making adjustments on a control panel and a storing means disposed within. It further shows an integrated scan to store apparatus that allows images to be scanned and stored on a removable data storage device. While it eliminates the need for a separate computer it also eliminates the compatibility with any existing scanners by building a completely new scanner to include a CPU monitor scanner and memory storage device as a single unit. In addition it still requires instructions from the operator and certain computer navigation procedures in order to allow choices to include scanning manipulating adjusting and storage. In particular it requires a high powered CPU along with an extensive RAM and cache memory system as well as various ports to allow this device to interface with other apparatus. In other words it compromises existing scanner design in exchange for a self contained integrated configuration in a stand alone apparatus including a single housing having a top surface and an interior space defined beneath said top surface a high end CPU processor some imagined miniature monitor and some sort of abbreviated keyboard.

U.S. patent application Publication No. 2002 0051242 shows an integrated scan to store apparatus having a CPU a removable storage medium and a control system displaying digital images. It further shows stand alone flatbed scanner controls for controlling the mode of operation degree of resolution and related parameters associated with generating storing and displaying digital data which requires substantially more input from an operator than U.S. Pat. No. 6 166 830 to control functions such as mode of operation color or black and white high low medium resolution LCD display use erase control image advance and data compression in addition to other operator controlled functions. It also includes ports for peripherals an internal hard drive and software adapted to display images directly on a screen. This application shares the same problem as U.S. Pat. No. 6 166 830 and it additionally incorporates a special carriage adapted within the unit with a digital camera positioned on this carriage so as to either conventionally scan a document or take a digital picture of the document. The digital camera picture would also allow viewing on a conventional TV set and an adapter to couple an auto document feeder.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 943 868 encompasses a compact lightweight image data filing apparatus with an IC memory card as an image data storing medium and is primarily designed to be coupled with a hand held scanner rather than being universally compatible with most optical scanners. Image data on an object such as a name card is read by the hand scanner and filed into the IC memory card. The read data is stored into the IC memory card together with an ID entered via the keyboard for identifying the image data to be stored. The image data is specified by the ID entered and displayed by a liquid crystal display device. As such it requires additionally a keyboard for entering ID s and a display for displaying the image data.

Currently there is a demand for a portable free standing universal scanner driving device for a unskilled operator to scan a document directly to a storage media therein from a single interaction with any scanner available in situ.

It is a purpose of this invention to provide a self contained portable and universally compatible scanner driving device for any existing unmodified scanner to be plugged into.

It is another purpose of this invention to eliminate the need for program navigation a separate computer monitor and keyboard.

It is still another purpose of this invention to provide an easy to use single touch scan to store system.

With reference to the figures like reference characters will be used to indicate like elements throughout the several embodiments and views thereof.

Although the one touch scan to store device of the present invention may incorporate any of a push button touch pad or touch screen shows the scan to store device according to the invention to be connected with an external optical scanner having a single push button a slot for receiving a storage medium such as a floppy disk a slow speed low capacity processor and algorithms for manipulating a scanned image and saving it to the storage medium a female RS 232 connector a female DIN connector a power cable a LCD display for displaying textual user information and a housing case . Although not shown in ports such as a USB port also may be provided for an external LCD display numeric or alpha numeric keypad storage media etc.

Like other processors the processor includes a ALU Arithmetic Logic Unit internal registers and CU control unit for sequencing the system. The processor has three buses a bi directional data bus mono directional address bus and a control bus. The data bus carries data between various components of the system typically from memory to the processor or input output controller. The address bus carries an address generated by the processor which will select one internal register within one of the chips attached to the system and specifies the source or destination of the data which will carry along the data bus. The control bus carries various synchronization signals. The processor needs some sort of clock to synchronize the precise timing references of the system.

The input output ports include an input parallel port for inputting data from an optical scanner and an output port for outputting data to a storage medium. A standard parallel cable consisting of 25 pins that transfer information one byte at a time is used with the parallel port such as a unidirectional 4 bit parallel port. Preferably the output port is a USB port. USB ports are very fast and have two data speeds 12 mbps for devices such as scanners printers monitors and modems.

The memory controller controls data reading from and data writing to the memory including the RAM and ROM while the disk controller controls data reading from and data writing to a disk.

Power is supplied via a transformer which converts the 120 volt 50 Hz AC current into 5 and 12 volt DC current and a 3.3 volt as well on some systems. Usually the digital electronic components and circuits in the system motherboard adapter cards and disk drive logic boards use the 3.3 volt or 5 volt power and the motors disk drive motor and any fans use the 12 volt power.

To simplify the device and its functions the device does not include any co processor sound cards graphic cards or E IDE interfaces.

Instead of a floppy disk the disk controller and slot may accommodate a Hard Disk an Optical Disk a tape a CD a Worm an Erasable a Zip Disk a DVD a flash Memory Card a Super Disk media card or a combination of two or more of these storage media. Alternatively any such storage medium may be controlled by an external driver although an internal CD burner would allow for the greatest compatibility with drivers.

The ROM and RAM may be substituted by a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM a Magnetic Disk a Magnetic Tape a Magnetic Drum or Magnetic Disk which will increase the performance of the device at the price of size and cost.

The operating system can be one of Proprietary Software Windows 2000 Windows 2000 Professional Windows 2000 Server Windows Server 2003 Windows XP Windows NT Windows ME Windows 98 Windows 95 Windows 3.11 Windows Longhorn MS DOS PC DOS MXS Mac OS X. Classic Macintosh OS 2 Linux Unix NetBSD OpenBSD GNU Hurd Solaris SunOS HP UX OpenVMS Tru64 IRIX NeXT Rhapsody AIX MVS NetWare BeOS AmigaOS SCO OpenServer SCO UnixWare Pyramid and BSDi. The application programming interfaces API s such as TWAIN are available for each device and the chosen operating system will determine how much custom programming is required for this software.

The device is designed to complement any existing scanners or their future designs. The miniaturized slow speed low memory computer substitute is small lightweight and very portable. It can be connected by AC plug and ISB cable for example to e.g. a flat bed scanner without requiring or causing any modification to the scanner itself. This device is totally separate from the scanner and is simply a substitute for the much larger more powerful more expensive and much more complicated to operate computer. This design by contrast is only programmed to support a scanner thereby allowing operator input to become as simple as operating a copy machine.

When used with an operating system that supports USB devices can be added and removed without powering down or reconfiguring the system. When a device is added or removed the system automatically detects the change and then loads or unloads the appropriate driver.

The stand alone scanner driving device is easy to operate. Once it is connected with an optical scanner the assembly works as easily as a simple copy machine which does not require a computer monitor or keyboard. As such the operation does not require the user to be computer literate. Because the unit would require less processing capabilities compared to today s computer technology obsolete computer components can be used to manufacture the device.

According to the flow chart in the user first turns on the device power Step by pressing the button until hearing the power up chime. Once power is on the LCD display displays Connect Scanner then Press Button prompting the user to connect the device to a scanner. The user connects the device to a scanner step followed by pressing button . The device detects the type of scanner step and retrieves the scanner s driver for supporting its operation with a specific operating system step . The retrieving process may be conducted via three ways 1. Importing the scanner driver software from a storage medium received by the slot or from a computer step 2. Reading from the ROM a pre stored scanner driver step or 3. downloading the scanner driver software via a computer a PDA or a cell phone from the internet step . In one embodiment the device is ordered on line by an end user with at least one specific scanner driver installed. In another embodiment the device is pre stored with at least one popular scanner driver. In this embodiment the input button and the LCD are replaced by a one touch panel on which different scanner drivers are displayed for a user to choose. Accordingly the device automatically configures a connected scanner connect and scan . A user can connect the device with a scanner and scan documents with the scanner without worrying about setting hardware or data transmission configurations.

If the device cannot initialize due to the unavailability of its driver the LCD display displays Initialization Failed .

Optionally the LCD display may display the brand name and model number of the scanner. The LCD display then displays Insert Disk after the scanner driver is retrieved. The user inserts a disk or the like into the slot in step . The LCD display then displays Place Doc to prompt the user to place a to be scanned document in the scanner step . The LCD display displays Push to Scan Store to control the device to scan the document and store the information into the disk step .

There is one default graphic file type in the device . However in another embodiment the device supports many different graphic file types such as bmp jpg tif gif png and others. In this embodiment a variety of file formats are shown on the touch panel in the Save As dialog for the user to choose depending on how or where the file image or picture will be used. For example scanning images for use on the World Wide Web is different from scanning images for printing.

According to the flow chart in the user of the second embodiment of the universal scanner driving device follows steps to in the same manner as the user of the first embodiment. The user then connects an alpha numeric keypad to a port in device step . After placing a new document on the scanner step the user optionally may enter a document name using the alpha numeric keypad step touch a control key on the numeric keypad to indicate that a new document is to be scanned step and push the push button on device step whereupon the system automatically scans the document and saves it into a new folder with a new page number sequence.

Both the LCD display and the alpha numeric keypad may require custom programming. This would depend on the implementation used by the hardware vendor.

The principles preferred embodiments and modes of operation of the present invention have been described in the foregoing specification. However the invention which is intended to be protected is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed. The embodiments described herein are illustrative rather than restrictive. Variations and changes may be made by others and equivalents employed without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Accordingly it is expressly intended that all such variations changes and equivalents which fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined in the claims be embraced thereby.

