---

title: Enhanced process query framework
abstract: An enhanced process query framework, including receiving a user input defining behavioral and static aspects of a target process artifact, and automatically defining a query specification including an axiom component expressing the static aspect using a logical expression, and a process definition component expressing the behavioral aspect using ontologized π-calculus. The process further includes querying a process artifact library using the automatically defined query specification, and outputting a candidate process artifact matching the defined behavioral and static aspects, based on querying the process artifact library.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08326795&OS=08326795&RS=08326795
owner: SAP AG
number: 08326795
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080226
---
In the modern world businesses constantly strive to reinvent and differentiate themselves under continuous pressures of regulatory and technological change. As priorities and perspective change business may suffer from a lack of support when incorporating new business requirements into existing information systems.

In order to respond quickly to changing market requirements a business organization may need to increase the level of agility in various phases of the business process engineering chain. For example business process BP modeling may be the first and most important phase in this chain. Designing a new and redesigning an existing process model may be a highly complex time consuming and error prone task.

According to one general implementation a contribution to BP modeling is provided that may occur by designing and implementing a framework for querying business process artifacts in a business process modeling phase. For example the framework may support decision making facilitate the reuse of modeling artifacts and help to ensure compliance of models to relevant regulations.

According to one general implementation a computer implemented process includes receiving a user input defining behavioral and static aspects of a target process artifact and automatically defining a query specification including an axiom component expressing the static aspect using a logical expression and a process definition component expressing the behavioral aspect using ontologized calculus. The process further includes querying a process artifact library using the automatically defined query specification and outputting a candidate process artifact matching the defined behavioral and static aspects based on querying the process artifact library.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the dynamic aspect may define constraints on desired control and data flow for the target process artifact. The static aspect may define a business function or a business role resource and goal objective for the target process artifact. Outputting the candidate process may further include substituting the candidate process artifact for or appending the candidate process artifact to an existing process artifact in a process.

In additional examples receiving the user input defining the static aspects of the target process artifact may further include displaying a user interface comprising a business annotation selection region displaying desired business annotations and an ontology navigator region displaying available ontology concepts. Receiving the user input may also include receiving a user selection by dragging an available ontology concept from the ontology navigator region to the business annotation region thereby rendering the dragged ontology concept as a selected desired business annotation and outputting as the user input the selected desired business annotation.

Additionally the process may also include receiving a user selection of a tab corresponding to a process model classification and outputting as the user input the process model functional classification corresponding to the selected tab the process model functional classification being one of a functional classification a role classification a resource classification or a goal classification.

In further examples outputting a candidate process artifact may further include outputting a process model pattern fragment or guideline determined based upon a user preference. Receiving the user input defining the behavioral aspect of the target process artifact may further include displaying a user interface comprising a business process display region displaying a business process receiving a user selection highlighting a portion of the business process and outputting as the user input an automatically generated behavioral description of the highlighted portion described using ontologized calculus. The automatically generated behavioral description may exclude any portion of the business process not highlighted via the user selection. The axiom component may express the static aspect using Web Service Modeling Language WSML Logical Expression LE .

In other examples the process includes matching the candidate with the defined behavioral aspect using congruence and bisimulation. The query specification may further include a type indicator indicating whether the candidate process artifact is to be appended to or substituted for an existing process artifact. The query specification may further include a namespace. The process artifact library may be queried using the axiom component and after querying the process artifact library using the axiom component the process artifact library may be queried using the process definition component. The process may also include automatically refining the query to add or eliminate constraints and re querying the process artifact using the automatically refined query or reusing the output candidate process in a new business process The process may also include determining a business guideline associated with the output candidate process and outputting the determined business guideline.

According to another general implementation a device includes an interface module and a modeling tool module. The interface module is configured to receive a user input defining behavioral and static aspects of a target process artifact and to output a candidate process artifact matching the defined behavioral and static aspects based on querying a process artifact library. The modeling tool module is configured to automatically define a query specification including an axiom component expressing the static aspect using a logical expression and a process definition component expressing the behavioral aspect using ontologized calculus and to query the process artifact library using the automatically defined query specification.

In a further example the modeling tool module further includes a business modeling tool configured to provide an environment for modeling business processes an ontology reasoner configured to perform ontological reasoning for querying the process artifact library a behavioral reasoner configured to perform calculus reasoning and an ontology application programming interface API configured to create and manipulate an ontology object model for the business modeling tool where the process artifact library is configured to persistently store process patterns models fragments and guidelines.

According to a further general implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause data processing apparatus to receive a user input defining behavioral and static aspects of a target process artifact and to automatically define a query specification including an axiom component expressing the static aspect using a logical expression and a process definition component expressing the behavioral aspect using ontologized calculus. The computer program product also includes instructions that operate to cause data processing apparatus to query a process artifact library using the automatically defined query specification and to output a candidate process artifact matching the defined behavioral and static aspects based on querying the process artifact library.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In order to respond quickly to changing market requirements a business organization may need to increase the level of agility in all phases of the business process engineering chain. For example business process BP modeling may be the first and most important phase in this chain. Designing a new and redesigning an existing process model may be a highly complex time consuming and error prone task.

This disclosure describes a contribution to BP modeling that may occur by designing and implementing a framework for querying business process artifacts in a business process modeling phase. For example the framework may support decision making facilitate the reuse of modeling artifacts and help to ensure compliance of models to relevant regulations.

BP models may be created by business analysts or other users with an objective to capture business requirements enable a better understanding of business processes facilitate communication between business analysts and Information Technology IT experts identify process improvement options and serve as a basis for the derivation of executable business processes. Designing a new process model may be a highly complex time consuming and error prone task. This is because BP modeling may involve several sources of information BP models are dynamic and may be frequently redesigned to adapt to changes and BP models are often shared by several departments within a company or even between different companies.

Simplification of BP modeling may occur when models are highly reusable or when BP modeling favors process flexibility and minimizes designs made from scratch. Reusing models may imply for example the need for querying process repositories in order to find suitable previous work that may be the base for a new design or may be used to update an existing design. Such model reuse may be done for example using an expressive and machine readable description of relevant aspects of a BP model that may help to retrieve the most relevant parts of a previous work e.g. a BP model or portion thereof .

Therefore in order to enable expressive querying of BP models a modeling framework may use a comprehensive formal process model description that captures all relevant dimensions perspectives of a process. Functional behavioral organizational and informational perspectives may be considered relevant to adequately organize information about a process. The formal model for describing business processes which integrates all aforementioned perspectives will be described in more detail in reference to infra.

The modeling tool module may be used to define behavioral and static aspects of business processes and to automatically define query specifications. Such a query specification or query may include multiple components such as an axiom component and a process definition component. The axiom component for example may express the static aspect of a business process using a logical expression. The process definition component may express the behavioral aspect of a business process using for example ontologized calculus. The modeling tool module may use the automatically defined query specification to query a process artifact library such as the repository of business process artifacts . As a result of responding to the query the system may output a candidate process artifact matching the defined behavioral and static aspects based on querying the process artifact library e.g. the business process artifacts .

The modeling tool module may provide an environment for modeling business processes. The module may include an ontology reasoner that may perform ontological reasoning for querying the process artifact library a behavioral reasoner that may perform calculus reasoning and an ontology application programming interface API configured to create and manipulate an ontology object model for the business modeling tool.

In one example a business analyst or other user may use the system to define business processes e.g. as part of a use case or a larger business process . As such the business analyst may employ the front end system to access business process information on the system . For example the front end system may be a work computer or other client device e.g. home computer laptop etc. that includes business process modeling software applications. The front end system may incorporate the user interface which may include for example various screens and controls for defining e.g. selecting querying modifying etc. business process models. Such screens and controls may be displayed for example on the screen of the front end system .

Continuing with the example the business analyst may employ controls of the user interface to issue user inputs that are received by the modeling tool module . For example the user inputs may include any user inputs such as text entry e.g. into text fields selection s from lists selections made in checkboxes radio buttons or other controls voice commands etc. Any such user inputs are received by the modeling tool module which may generate corresponding queries to access associated BP modeling information from the repository of business process artifacts . In some cases the user inputs received by the modeling tool module may include user inputs to store new or update existing BP modeling information.

The repository of business process artifacts may be configured to persistently store process patterns models fragments and guidelines. As such the business process artifacts may provide when queried modeling information to the modeling tool module . Such artifacts may be used by the user of the front end system to create or update process models without having to do so from scratch.

The business modeling tool may provide an environment for modeling business processes. In particular the business modeling tool may be used by the user e.g. business expert business analyst etc. to interact with the framework. The user may interact through a user friendly query interface such as screens and controls that are part of business process modeling applications. In one example implementation the business modeling tool uses the SAP Maestro for BPMN modeling tool.

The process artifact library may provide persistent storage for process patterns models fragments and guidelines. In some implementations the process artifact library may be implemented using the Ontology Representation and Data Integration ORDI framework or any other middleware component designed to be able to load various ontology languages and to allow enterprise data integration via an RDF like data model.

The ontology reasoner may perform ontological reasoning for obtaining the query results. Because behavioral reasoning may be computationally more expensive query answering by the ontology reasoner is performed first which serves as a filtering step to obtain a subset of process descriptions for later behavioral conformance checking. Ontologies may be represented in the Web Service Modeling Language WSML Logical Expression LE language and as such some implementations may use the WSML2Reasoner framework on top of the KAON2 back end reasoner to perform ontological reasoning. Other implementation may use any other modular architecture that combines various validation normalization and transformation algorithms for translating ontology descriptions in WSML into the appropriate syntax of underlying reasoning engines.

The behavioral reasoner may perform calculus reasoning serving as a query answering mechanism for graphical queries used in process substitution and auto completion scenarios. The behavioral reasoner may implement a strict congruence algorithm based on the definition of bisimulation form. In some implementations the Mobility Workbench MWB may be embedded as a subsystem in the framework implementing bisimulation for the calculus.

The ontology API may provide methods for creating and manipulating the ontology object model. For instance the ontology API may be used by the modeling tool for creating an in memory representation of the modeled process based on the ontology framework described in reference to . In some implementations the ontology API may be implemented using WSMO4J a reference implementation for WSMO and WSML specifications.

The parser serializer may provide the round trip transformation between any WSML ontological representation and the plain calculus representation describing the behavioral perspective of a process.

Briefly the computer implemented process includes receiving a user input defining behavioral and static aspects of a target process artifact. The process also includes automatically defining a query specification that includes at least two components an axiom component expressing the static aspect using a logical expression and a process definition component expressing the behavioral aspect using ontologized calculus. The process further includes querying a process artifact library using the automatically defined query specification and outputting a candidate process artifact matching the defined behavioral and static aspects.

In more detail when process begins S a business process BP modeling system is capable of receiving user inputs. For example referring to the modeling system may be a computer application e.g. the modeling tool module designed for modeling business process models and the application may be running on a user s front end system .

Returning to user input defining behavioral and static aspects of a target process artifact is received S . For example the user input may be a selection or other input handled by the user interface . Specifically the user input may be related to querying business process artifacts for use in a specific business process model upon which the user is working.

A query specification is automatically defined that comprises an axiom component expressing the static aspect using a logical expression and a process definition component expressing the behavioral aspect using ontologized calculus S . For example the modeling tool module may receive the user input and generate the query specification based on the user input. Specifically the user input may include multiple components such as an axiom component and a process definition component. The query specification generated is in a format for example that the repository of business process artifacts may understand.

The query may support the description of static and dynamic behavior. WSML Logical Expression LE may be used for specifying queries on static properties of a process. The syntax of WSML LE may be based on Frame Logic or other suitable syntax. In some implementations the query may reference instances of business annotations which are materialized by instances of the business relations such as 

bpo hasBusinessFunction x Annot1 and bpo hasBusinessRole x Annot2 and bpo hasBusinessResource x Annot3 and bpo hasBusinessGoal x Annot4 .

The dynamic behavior of a suitable process may be described as a process definition. As such the process may use the ontology framework described below in reference to . Briefly the ontology framework may describe a process its connections and the annotations of tasks as relation instances. Defining that the behavioral query has the same structure as the process definitions may avoid the mismatch problem that would appear from having a different query language for behavioral querying.

Therefore the ontologized calculus may be used to describe the user request process query . This query may be checked against processes stored in the repository using congruence and bisimulation properties.

The query specification may be defined to use the same language used by process descriptions. This enables the reuse of the ontological process model for representing the user queries. For meeting reusability requirements the query specification may be in a format of a template with placeholders. In addition the query specification may encapsulate both static and dynamic attributes in a unified language.

The use of a Business Process Ontology BPO ontology instance may provide the solution to this. Specifically the query template may correspond to a pre defined ontology structure with namespace definition and element descriptions. Table 1 shows an example of template contents 

The ontology may contains an axiom e.g. containing the static query and a process definition e.g. containing the process behavior . The non functional property dc type indicates the type of behavioral query being performed.

The ontology submitted as a query may contain all necessary information for specifying the query request. The approach may enable performing ontological reasoning on the static part and reasoning on the dynamic part of a process description. This approach also may be scalable since adding new concepts or adding new information to the query will not imply changes to the established query definition.

In order to reduce the level of complexity the task may be divided into two subtasks static and dynamic behavioral querying. The querying mechanism operates on a Business Process Ontology BPO as will be described in more detail in reference to .

The first subtask may investigate simple static querying where the user may specify constraints related to the static view of a process. Here WSML logical expressions may be used as a query language and ontological reasoning for query answering. The second subtask may investigate graphical behavioral querying where the user may specify requirements on dynamic perspectives of a process description.

This may correspond to auto completion and substitution scenarios where algorithms from bisimulation theory may be used for comparing the processes e.g. for equivalence .

Referring again to a process artifact library is queried using the automatically defined query specification S . For example referring to a query that is representative of the user s input is issued by the modeling tool module against the repository of BP artifacts . The query may contain for example an axiom component and a process definition component.

In response to the query a candidate process artifact is output that matches the defined behavioral and static aspects based on querying the process artifact library S . For example the artifact may include textual process information related to the static aspects of a BP model or the artifact may include graphical or other representation of information related to the behavioral aspects of the BP model. The process ends S when the framework has responded to the query.

The intended users of the framework may include for example business experts. To aid in understanding the information the users may be provided with an intuitive and user friendly query interface that allows the users to specify their queries in an easy way such as in a way that is not much different from using the applications they are used to. The complexities of ontologies and reasoning may be hidden from the user. Business or modeling guidelines can be queried both for new processes or fragments which are imported in the tool during modeling so that they are correctly applied as well as existing process models. For example a user may model a process and check to see if it is compliant with all appropriate guidelines.

In an ontologies box an ontology navigator may provide available ontology concepts which the user may browse. Desired business annotations represented by the ontology concepts may be dragged from the ontologies box to a business functions panel and marked as required or optional for querying. This may be important for achieving flexibility in querying since the concepts marked as optional may be omitted when constructing the query for retrieving more results. The user may also specify the type s of artifacts to be queried e.g. model pattern fragment guideline etc. . In some implementations other controls may exist for controlling how queries are handled and how information is used e.g. entered defined dragged copied etc. on the screen.

In contrast to performing static queries querying for desired behavior may not need a new dialog. For example querying may be performed by selecting a process part or fragment directly in the modeling tool.

Selecting the model fragment may be done in several ways. In some implementations the user may use a mouse click to define a starting position e.g. a starting corner of the dashed line box then drag the mouse until a desired dashed box is displayed. In some implementations the selection of the model fragment may be made by clicking on components e.g. boxes arrows etc. of the overall business process model . In that case the interface may automatically draw the shaded box or other such shape around the fragment or the interface may shade or color components that are currently selected.

In some implementations the user may use the interface to append or replace process artifacts or fragments thereof to an existing process artifact for a process model. For example while the user has fragment identified e.g. with a dashed box the user may employ controls not shown available in the interface to modify the fragment or to substitute another fragment. To differentiate between an append or replace action the query specification may include for example a type indicator indicating whether the candidate process artifact is to be appended to or substituted for an existing process artifact.

This approach of graphical querying may be considered be intuitive to the user. The behavioral description of the selected part may be obtained automatically using the Parser Serializer refer to and used as an input for behavioral reasoning e.g. substitution auto completion deadlock liveness verification etc. .

In addition recent research has shown that the calculus is able to easily express the formal semantics of all documented workflow patterns as well as represent powerful service choreographies. By using the calculus for representing the process behavior it may also be possible to integrate existing tools and techniques for verification and simulation of processes in the framework. The dynamic perspective of a process model stands for process control and dataflow and it may be modeled using the ontologized calculus denoted by a business process ontology .

For representing the functional organizational and informational perspective a set of ontologies imported by the business process ontology may be used. A business functions ontology provides a structural breakdown of the organization s business functions. Concepts from this ontology may classify process models by their functionality independent of the business domain. A business roles ontology includes concepts representing roles in the organization e.g. Manager Engineer Clerk Secretary etc. A business resources ontology describes the resources e.g. documents systems machines etc. which are used to operate the activities in processes. A business goals ontology models a hierarchy of organization business goals e.g. milestones objectives etc. according to which the processes in the organization are designed.

Business goals may be modeled in such a way that they conflict if they cannot be satisfied simultaneously. Moreover goals may influence positively or negatively other goals. Note that these perspectives correspond to a static view of a process such as the information displayed in the input dialog described for related to queries on the static view of a process static queries .

Within the decision making support scenario a key challenge in decision making may be having access to all relevant information which is to be assessed in a particular situation. Such information typically may be scattered in organization processes and may have to be manually collected from diverse sources for each individual case. To facilitate this task the framework may enable a business expert to quickly and expressively query the process artifact repository of an organization. Some example queries for this scenario include Give me all processes in the fulfillment area Which processes use system x What resources are needed for running process y List all processes with conflicting goals. How many transactions are carried out with a partner z on a monthly basis et cetera.

The BP reuse scenario includes the reuse of BP process artifacts. Reuse may occur through the use of process patterns models fragments and modeling guidelines as process artifacts. The BP reuse scenario describes how the business expert may query the process artifact repository for reuse of process patterns and models fragments in process design. Since process modeling is a complex activity reuse of existing models and model components may be advantageous in all stages of modeling. For instance when designing a new process the business expert may first query existing business process patterns e.g. generic high level process designs emphasizing business goals in search of the best modeling practices in a given domain. An example query for business patterns may be Give me all business patterns related to Fulfillment Business Function where Business Goals involved are Oand A

The business expert may also query in the same way for existing models or process fragments e.g. self contained coherent building blocks of a process model with a clear business meaning . In case there are existing process models or fragments that are similar to the desired end design the business expert may use them in the design in order to achieve a higher degree of reuse compared to the reuse of patterns. Moreover if the user wants to substitute an existing process fragment based on redesign goals or auto complete an underspecified model the user may make graphical queries based on behavioral reasoning . Specifically the business expert may select the desired process part for the substitution or auto completion in the modeling tool. For this purpose the framework may use properties of bisimulation theory for the calculus.

The querying guidelines scenario covers querying for business process guidelines. For example the guidelines may include concrete policies defined according to company strategies which apply orthogonally to all processes of an organization such as the business process steps needed to complete an order. Queries involved in this scenario may retrieve all modeling guidelines both mandatory and conditional which match context annotations of the model being checked. This may reduce the manual effort of creating an inventory of such guidelines for any given model. For checking which guidelines are relevant in a digital content provisioning process an example query may be Give me all modeling guidelines for Digital Asset Management Business Function where clients are minors and Business Goal associated belongs to Fulfillment. 

Hierarchies may represent business goals and are depicted in using hierarchical levels of increasing detail level A level B level C and level D . Level A includes a BCO Business Goal node which is the highest hierarchical entity in and as such may serve as the root of the hierarchy or tree . The node may be thought of as an abstraction of its subordinate nodes and . In general nodes depicted as ovals in may be thought of as ontology concepts some of which are abstractions of concepts at the next hierarchically lower level.

For example a Creation Done concept at the level C is an abstraction of subconcepts UserProfile Created and CatalogEntry Created at level D . As such if the user s query returns just the Creation Done concept and the user want more information the user may drill down to see information for subconcepts UserProfile Created and CatalogEntry Created . In some implementations drilling down or choosing to see more detail may be for example a user setting on the query input dialog if the user is viewing static information or double clicking on a graphical entity such as an element in the interface e.g. for dynamic information .

Instances are represented in as hexagonal shapes connected to associated ontology concepts. For example the userKnown instance is an instance corresponding to the user Known ontology concept and the taskDone instance is an instance corresponding to the Task Done ontology concept .

The refinement may be done mainly by navigation inside sub concepts skipping instances connected to super concepts. Since a concept may have many sub concepts the interaction with the user may be necessary to choose which path to follow. In an example of refinement is represented by a search for the goal Creation Done which has at the moment no instances directly connected however its subconcepts User Profile Created and Catalog Entry Created do have and processes associated with at least one of these instances are results of a refined query.

If there are too few results the framework may automatically search for instances connected to the parent concepts of the requested one in order to relax the query. For example in a query for processes related to the goal Client Known has just one instance as a result. If the framework decides to look for instances connected to User Known two instances i.e. concepts and match the query. In general when going deeper in the tree structure of goals one would retrieve fewer results refinement while when going upward in the tree structure the relaxation occurs.

A second way for relaxing a query may be to skip target concepts in the query e.g. using OR statements or other logic. For example the user may specify which concepts are required and which are optional using the input dialog in . Consider an example when the user wants models achieving goals A B and C where A and B are required to be parts of the model and C is optional. The framework may try to find models achieving all goals using Equation 1 1 

In Equation 1 Q represents the resulting set of process models M denotes the set of all process models and relation ant denotes that a model x is annotated using the ontology concept A.

In case no results meet the query the framework may automatically decide to relax the query executing Equation 2 2 

In one case the framework submit Equation 3 preferring to answer the user queries where all three goals are achieved 3 

Equation 3 may indicate a clear need for ranking results that fulfill all goals are matching perfectly the user query while results obtained for the relaxed query are fulfilling just a part of the user s need. In some implementations the framework described by this disclosure may include ranking of query results.

As a first step the user e.g. a business expert submits a query to the framework such as by choosing concepts from a loaded ontology base for the model that the user is looking for. The query is received by the modeling tool within the framework. The modeling tool submits a corresponding query e.g. in the form of a template previously described to the reasoner fa ade a layer on top of the ontology reasoner . The query is adapted and forwarded in the form of an adapted query to the ontology reasoner which performs querying and retrieves process models from the library .

The reasoner fa ade waits for the answer of the back end reasoner and analyzes the result. If the result set is too small or too few the reasoner fa ade may decide e.g. automatically to relax the query and perform a new request. If the result set is too large or too many the reasoner fa ade may decide to do further filtering by asking the user for more specific information. The framework may then give the user back the control of the modeling tool e.g. with a list inside a pop up window from which the user may choose the right model to be used.

If the user wants to perform a graphical query as well queries may represent a selection of a model part or fragment in the editor such as the interface described in reference to . For example a query may be associated with an equivalence test . The query may contain static and dynamic query information as described before. The remaining steps may be the same a query for the static characteristics of a process is performed first in a message the process pairs query reference and tested process are sent to a behavioral reasoner which answers whether the two processes are similar. This last call may be done for each process fragment obtained in the first step.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor may process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of duties is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor may process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may also include separate analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD display or an OLED display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication e.g. via a docking procedure or for wireless communication e.g. via Bluetooth or other such technologies .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or MRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal.

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS receiver module may provide additional wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communication audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codex may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here may be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations may include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and may be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices may be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user may be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user may be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user may interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

