---

title: Embedded module receiver noise profiling
abstract: A self-test prediction system predicts the impact that a host device has on an embedded wireless device's receiver performance by recording the wireless device's received power. No carrier or pilot signal is necessary to predict the impact. The wireless device's embedded receiver monitors its own received power (e.g., RSSI) from any type of radiated noise from the host device. For receivers that do not provide RSS referenced to absolute power, an external reference tone can be used in order to scale the measured receiver carrier to noise or signal to noise data to an absolute power. The increase in measured received power on the wireless device's receiver correlates to the impact the host device will have on the embedded wireless device's receiver sensitivity performance, providing a faster approach with less external equipment than current approaches that use external equipment to simulate the wireless device's forward link signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08385869&OS=08385869&RS=08385869
owner: QUALCOMM, Incorporated
number: 08385869
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080623
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 986 165 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PREDICTING THE PERFORMANCE OF AN EMBEDDED WIRELESS DEVICE RECEIVER BY MEASURING THE RECEIVER AUTOMATIC GAIN CONTROL IN THE ABSENCE OF SIGNAL CARRIER filed 7 Nov. 2007 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The exemplary embodiments of the invention relate to computer and computer related technology. In particular the exemplary embodiments of the invention relate to systems and methods for predicting the performance of an embedded wireless device receiver by measuring the received signal strength e.g. automatic gain control AGC RSSI SNR etc. in the absence of a signal carrier. For receivers that do not provide RSS referenced to absolute power an external reference tone can be used in order to scale the measured receiver carrier to noise or signal to noise data to an absolute power.

With advances in computing and communication technology increasingly devices integrate a number of components to increase their versatility and performance. Many of these components emit electromagnetic noise that can couple into a receiving antenna of the device degrading radiated sensitivity. Even for devices that exploit unprotected frequency spectra e.g. WiFi WiMAX etc. degradation in performance can cause customer dissatisfaction and support costs.

Upfront testing costs can be even greater for devices that exploit protected spectra. Total Isotropic Sensitivity TIS testing is required to certify any new device for use on commercial networks and is essential to ensure a minimum quality of forward link service. However TIS testing is a costly and time consuming process that requires formal testing at carrier designated certified labs e.g. Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association CTIA .

Conventionally a near field probe can locate the general location within a device that is causing radio frequency RF emissions. However the fact that such RF emissions are occurring does not necessarily mean that these emissions will couple into an antenna of the device or otherwise degrade performance. Consequently such testing can result in unnecessary modifications before TIS testing or prove to be a time consuming method of troubleshooting after a TIS testing failure.

As an example of devices that are greatly disadvantaged by such certification requirements notebook vendors routinely offer multiple hardware configurations for the same base model with different processor speed drive type or display type etc. Each configuration potentially has a different RF emission profile with the possibility of new interference sources in a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN module receiver band or other wireless format. Each configuration necessitates fresh evaluation of radiated sensitivity and this adds significant overhead to the introduction of minor device revisions and configurations. This is a particular if not unique barrier for notebook vendors.

As another example measuring an embedded wireless device s receiver performance can use a network simulator in a shielded radio frequency environment. A network simulator is used to establish a test call from the emulator to the embedded wireless device using an over the air antenna inside an RF shielded chamber. The receiver performance is measured by monitoring errors in the wireless link from the network emulator to the wireless device e.g. Packet Error Rate Frame Error Rate Bit Error Rate and Symbol Error Rate . The signal level from the network emulator is adjusted until the target wireless link error rate is established. Each time the network emulator is adjusted the error link measurement cycle requires 300 to 1000 data packets or frames or bits to get statistically significant measurement of receiver performance. These methods require expensive network simulators and take a long time to find the target link error rate at multiple channels.

As yet another example it has been proposed that a spectrum analyzer can be connected to an antenna of an embedded wireless module in a device such as a laptop or notebook computer. The spectrum analyzer can detect a noise profile by scanning the signals received by the antenna. Analyzing the raw data poses certain challenges. Another challenge is testing uncertainties introduced by the invasive nature of testing with a spectrum analyzer. Disassembly to insert a cable to an embedded antenna can violate the integrity of the device changing characteristics of the device itself changing a grounding state of the device and posing impedance matching problems.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of exemplary embodiments of the present invention and is not intended to represent the only embodiments in which the present invention can be practiced. The term exemplary used throughout this description means serving as an example instance or illustration and should not necessarily be construed as preferred or advantageous over other exemplary embodiments. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the exemplary embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the novelty of the exemplary embodiments presented herein.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention include an embedded receiver based noise floor profiling for rapid assessment of device self interference. Leveraging a linear calibrated receiver that is used for other purposes in an integrated device e.g. wireless network transceiver for a laptop can determine self interference without a lengthy expensive Total Isotropic Sensitivity TIS test nor intrusive problematic frequency analyzers that fail to discount noise that does not couple through an antenna of the embedded receiver. This ability to rapidly assess a noise profile can allow validation of a configuration similar to a TIS validated configuration by comparing a noise profile testing NPT for both configurations. For example given that a prior configuration parent of an integrated device has been similarly tested by noise profile testing from an embedded receiver module for radiated performance and validated by TIS testing a modified configuration child can be rapidly assessed by determining that a noise profile from sources within the device as measured on an embedded receiver module are better than or within an acceptable margin of the parent configuration.

In an exemplary embodiment a method is provided for testing receiver sensitivity. A wireless device is embedded in a host device. The host device is placed in a radio frequency RF shielded chamber. Noise emitting components are activated in the host device. The wireless device is controlled to measure received power in a plurality of radio frequencies.

In another exemplary embodiment at least one processor is provided for testing receiver sensitivity of a receiver embedded in a host device placed in a radio frequency shielded chamber. A first module activates noise emitting components in the host device. A second module controls the wireless device to measure received power in a plurality of radio frequencies. A third module records a plurality of data samples over time for each of the plurality of radio frequencies in local storage of the host device.

In an additional exemplary embodiment a computer program product is provided for testing receiver sensitivity of a receiver embedded in a host device placed in a radio frequency shielded chamber. A first set of codes causes a computer to activate noise emitting components in the host device. A second set of codes causes the computer to control the wireless device to measure received power in a plurality of radio frequencies. A third set of codes causes the computer to record a plurality of data samples over time for each of the plurality of radio frequencies in local storage of the host device.

In a further exemplary embodiment an apparatus is provided for testing receiver sensitivity of a receiver embedded in a host device placed in a radio frequency shielded chamber. Means are provided for activating noise emitting components in the host device. Means are provided for controlling the wireless device to measure received power in a plurality of radio frequencies. Means are provided for recording a plurality of data samples over time for each of the plurality of radio frequencies in local storage of the host device.

In yet another exemplary embodiment an apparatus is provided for testing receiver sensitivity of an embedded receiver. A radio frequency RF shielded chamber is used to encompass a host device comprising an embedded wireless device. A noise profile testing component activates noise emitting components in the host device and controls the wireless device to measure received power in a plurality of radio frequencies.

The present systems and methods predict the impact that a host device has on an embedded wireless device s receive performance by recording the wireless device s receiver RX received power e.g. automatic gain control AGC received signal strength indicator RSSI etc. when the embedded device is located in the host. In one example no carrier or pilot signal is used in predicting the impact. The present systems and methods allow the wireless device s receiver to monitor its own RSSI when the wireless device is embedded in a host device that emits any type of radiated noise. For receivers that do not provide RSS referenced to absolute power an external reference tone can be used in order to scale the measured receiver carrier to noise or signal to noise data to an absolute power. The increase in measured RSSI on the wireless device s receiver correlates to the impact the host device will have on the embedded wireless device s receiver sensitivity performance. The present systems and methods are faster and use less external equipment than current systems and methods. For example current systems and methods use external equipment to simulate the wireless device s forward link signal.

Total Isotropic Sensitivity TIS the measure of radiated receiver performance that is performed upon a new configuration parent is influenced principally by three factors 1 The conducted sensitivity of the equipment under test s EUT receiver 2 The efficiency of the EUT s equipment under test receive antenna and 3 Receiver desense due to radiated self interference from the integrated EUT. There exist several test conditions where 1 and 2 can be assumed invariant leaving self interference as the only variable which impacts radiated receiver performance. For example the formal testing defined intermediate frequency IF test e.g. CTIA defined IF test for receiver performance consists of quick assessments of peak sensitivity relative to that observed at the closest frequency at which TIS was fully measured. Underlying this test method is the assumption that conducted receiver performance and antenna efficiency do not change significantly between the intermediate frequency under test and the nearest fully measured frequency.

Ostensibly the objective of this test is to detect in band interferers produced by the integrated EUT at frequencies where full TIS was not performed. Because the absolute respective contributions of 1 2 and 3 to the measured TIS are not known this test is only meaningful as a relative measure the measurements at intermediate frequencies must always be referenced to the most closely in frequency measured TIS value.

Another potential application of this concept is to evaluate multiple variants within a family of devices using identical receiver hardware and antenna designs. For example such device families are common among notebook computers containing embedded wireless e.g. WWAN modules and antennas. In this case an identical WWAN module and antenna specification are used across a family of products. However each member of the family may possess different form factors or may be comprised of non identical subcomponents such as different liquid crystal diode LCD displays central processing unit CPUs etc. As in the previous example the conducted sensitivity and antenna efficiency are expected to be unchanged across members of this device family. However the self interference factor may vary among family members due to potentially different RF emission characteristics of their respective subcomponents or different coupling paths between noisy subcomponents and the WWAN receiver input.

The intermediate frequency test assesses self interference by means of a relative measure of peak radiated sensitivity. Alternatively a similar goal may be accomplished using the EUT s own receiver. The ability to tune a receiver to a particular frequency and report the measured power level is a universal feature of all WWAN receivers regardless of the air interface standard. For example quantities such as Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI and RXLEV are used universally for system detection and acquisition open loop power control handoff negotiation and automatic gain control. In a test environment isolated from all external sources of RF energy such as local cellular networks this feature provides a measure of the ambient noise level which is comprised of thermal noise in the EUT receiver plus any interference produced by the integrated device itself.

It has been found that an appropriate estimate for noise can be determined without performing a rigorous spatial integral.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Turning to the Drawings is an exemplary block diagram illustrating one example of a wireless device that is embedded into a host device with a processor . For example the wireless device may be a code division multiple access CDMA radio modem and the host device may be a laptop computer. Exemplary embodiments of the invention allow a user to quickly determine the impact the noise of the host device has on a receiver of the wireless device .

In one example the host device e.g. laptop is placed in a radio frequency RF shielded environment. The host device may be turned on into an active state where the processor is running. The wireless device may also be turned on to an active receive state e.g. where the receiver is measuring the energy on the current receiver channel . The wireless device may be programmed to each and every channel in the receive band of the device . At each channel a measurement of received power e.g. AGC RSSI etc. is recorded for the wireless device . For example in certain implemented modes AGC measurements are used to determine RSSI.

In one example no other external equipment or signal sources are used. The only active device other than the wireless device is the host device . All the energy measured for the wireless device as indicated by the RSSI of the device comes from the host device .

Exemplary embodiments of the invention use the processor of the host device to control the embedded wireless device . The processor may include a command generator and an RSSI reader . The command generator may generate commands that the processor can issue over a communication port e.g. universal serial bus USB serial or Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI to the wireless device . The commands may be used to set the channel of the receiver for the wireless device . The RSSI reader may then read the RSSI for that channel across an interface between the processor and the wireless device . This process may be repeated for all applicable frequency bands and frequency channels.

A receive test to monitor the embedded wireless device on a single channel may be as short as one data packet or frame length. Alternatively an embedded software application e.g. Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW application may be running on the wireless device to control and record the wireless receiver data so a communication link directly from the processor to the wireless device is not needed.

In one example a calibration is added to improve the accuracy of the test and account for antenna gain patterns. A standard signal generator may be used to drive a sine wave through an antenna inside the RF shielded chamber at a constant amplitude above the noise generated by the host device . The RSSI of the wireless device may be recorded at every frequency across the receive band. A table of signal generator output power versus RSSI across the receive band may act as the correlation factor for the RSSI across the receive band. The correlation factor may also calibrate the wireless device s antenna pattern gain variations.

Furthermore the techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. CDMA2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . These various radio technologies and standards are known in the art.

In one example a determination is made as to whether local analysis is implemented. If local analysis is not implemented the log records may be transferred so that they may be analyzed by another device. If local analysis is implemented a profile of the receiver noise floor from the measured data may be created . A determination may be made as to whether receiver calibration is needed. If receiver calibration is not needed the method may end. If receiver calibration is needed execution of the given receiver test may be repeated while supplying RF power to the receiver at each point in its dynamic range. In addition the receiver noise floor profile may be adjusted with the measure calibration data.

In one example the receiver testing module further includes a device test log . The test log may include a device tested configuration . The tested configuration includes wireless device receiver data that is measured at each channel in the frequency band of the wireless device as depicted at . This data may be stored as measured characters . An application programming interface API may be used to interface with a communication module . The communication module may include a transmitter module a receiver module and an antenna system .

In an exemplary embodiment discussed below a computer usage model is employed as a representative baseline for noise generation. In particular routine processes are repetitively exercise e.g. file saves drawing charts performing spreadsheet calculations etc. . This routine allows for benchmarking across configurations and provides a realistic if worst case scenario for expected noise profiling. In particular noise sources are activated such as CPU memory busses hard drives displays cooling fans etc. The computer usage model can further encompass heat soaking cold soaking the hardware or otherwise dictating a minimum or maximum operating time prior to commencing a test. Thereby contributions due to thermal loads on various components of the host device can be standardized.

Alternatively or in addition the NPT application can place the host device into a factory test mode wherein various components can be individually controlled at a low level. A baseline configuration generally exercises a wide range of potential noise emitting sources such as a display hard drive motors processors cooling fans etc. It should be appreciated that the baseline configuration can be achieved by a dynamic automated routine that activates various permutations of available components on the host device to determine the individual contributions made by each device to the noise profile. Alternatively or in addition the dynamic automated routine can determine the available components for a particular configuration and ascertain analytically and or empirically a combination that achieves a desired noise profile. For example a worst case noise profile can be determined. As another example a worst case noise profile can be determined that is reasonably achievable during operational use for a given configuration. As yet another example a best case noise profile can be determined such as for use as a comparison point.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention may be implemented for linear and non linear receivers. A calibration table of the receiver dynamic range may be created either before or after the test. The measured data from the test may be scaled and inserted into the calibration table.

The embedded wireless device may not have a reverse link e.g. a MediaFLO broadcast receiver . The embedded device may be embedded in a laptop computer. The exemplary embodiments of the invention may also be implemented to test a standalone device e.g. smartphone a black box device that includes an embedded receiver e.g. meter reader etc. Data storage may be on an external hard drive. Data may be transmitted via Bluetooth or other wireless technology. The exemplary embodiments of the invention may be implemented for the full dynamic range and all receiver gain settings of the embedded wireless device.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention allow a user to correlate the wireless device s RSSI in its receive band to its receive sensitivity. The exemplary embodiments of the invention achieve the stated advantages by collecting the data without requiring any external test equipment. This reduces test cost. It also allows faster measurement time by collecting only RX AGC or RSSI instead of collecting wireless link error rates e.g. RSSI vs. BER PER SER FER .

Additionally many host device manufacturers are not equipped to perform standard receiver quality measurements. For example laptop vendors do not have anechoic chambers to perform precise receive sensitivity measurements on a CDMA or UMTS module embedded in their laptops. This test method explained by the present systems and methods allows them to measure the interference that their laptop causes to the embedded modem in a standard EMC chamber.

The wireless communication device may include a processor which controls operation of the wireless communication device . The processor may also be referred to as a central processing unit CPU . Memory which may include both read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM provides instructions and data to the processor . A portion of the memory may also include non volatile random access memory NVRAM . The processor typically performs logical and arithmetic operations based on program instructions stored within the memory . The instructions in the memory may be executable to implement the methods described herein.

The wireless communication device may also include a housing that may include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of data between the wireless communication device and a remote location. The transmitter and receiver may be combined into a transceiver . An antenna may be attached to the housing and electrically coupled to the transceiver . The wireless communication device may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple receivers multiple transceivers and or multiple antenna.

The wireless communication device may also include a signal detector that may be used to detect and quantify the level of signals received by the transceiver . The signal detector may detect such signals as total energy pilot energy per pseudo noise PN chips power spectral density and other signals. The wireless communication device may also include a digital signal processor DSP for use in processing signals.

The various components of the wireless communication device may be coupled together by a bus system which may include a power bus a control signal bus and a status signal bus in addition to a data bus. However for the sake of clarity the various busses are illustrated in as the bus system .

In a noise profiling system includes an RF shielded environment e.g. anechoic chamber . A receiver module intended for an embedded role in an integrated device can advantageously have a highly linear and calibrated capability to scan RF frequencies. If already calibrated even if not particularly linear then any needed measurement adjustments as a function of frequency and dynamic range are known. For a very linear device calibrating received power at one received power level can be used to calibrate readings at other power levels in the dynamic range. In such instances testing of the receiver module can be limited to a single frequency reception test as installed verifying received power of a known power transmission. In other instances the receiver module can have an unknown linearity and calibration of sensing received power e.g. RSSI . Generally the best reception sensitivity is achieved for the receiver module tested separately as depicted in by providing an RF noise source having a known radiated power depicted as a selectable transmission power and frequency at . An antenna used by or integral to the receiver module receives this radiated power to test calibration. If the antenna directivity is known the noise source can be aligned along a maximum antenna gain direction or the receiver module can be tested at various directions relative to the noise source to find a maximum. A noise profiling test NPT application executed on a computing platform depicted as a laptop can be connected via cabling into the shielded environment . Alternatively test equipment that can read the sensed received power from the receiver module can be used.

In an exemplary embodiment prior to formal testing the power reported by the receiver must be calibrated to a known conducted signal source such as a signal generator or cell site simulator. Linearity can be verified at two power levels at least 10 dB apart and at least 10 dB above the thermal noise floor of the wireless receiver. Calibration can be verified at all frequency channels specified by the noise profiling procedure. If adjustments are necessary they can be implemented in the calibration tables internal to the EUT whenever possible rather than in post processing of the noise profile data. Received power samples recorded by the noise profiling application can be accurate within 0.5 dB. Within a family of devices using identical receiver hardware it is only necessary to perform the calibration once.

In the noise profiling system can be used to provide a noise profile of an integrated device having an embedded receiver module not shown in that has sufficient linearity and calibration for use to scan a range of radio frequencies of interest and to measure received noise power. This calibration can be verified or determined such as depicted in . The test arrangement depicted in provides additional aspects suitable for certain instances. For example rather than executing the NPT application on the integrated device itself the NPT application can be remotely executed such as on the laptop . This can be appropriate for certain integrated devices having computing or user interface constraints that make this appropriate. For example certain portable devices have sufficient processing capabilities to perform the noise profiling but it may not be convenient to adapt such methodologies to a different computing platform given the additional development cost. Alternatively the processing interface capabilities can be too limited for such implementation.

Capabilities of the NPT application can include 1 configuring the mode and band of the EUT receiver 2 tuning the EUT receiver to a specified RF channel 3 placing the EUT receiver into its highest gain state 4 reading a configurable number of samples of received power level reported by the receiver at the tuned frequency programmable to tune the receiver to a predetermined sequence of RF channels and read power levels at each of those channels 4 acquiring power data from all diversity receive chains if present 5 storing the received power and supporting data in a comma delimited text file for post processing and analysis 6 real time plotting of received power data versus frequency 7 synchronized General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB control of a signal generator for swept calibration of the received power levels 8 enabling and sweeping the wireless e.g. WWAN transmitter during receiver data collection 9 supporting scripting for automating of multiband multimode and repeatability testing and 10 and configuring a time delay between enabling of the application and commencement of data collection.

Thus the NPT application can place the integrated device in a computer usage model in order to achieve like conditions across multiple configurations. Standardization can be achieved for components that are used repetitively to create a worst case noise profile e.g. file reads saves to a hard drive causing certain displays to be rendered etc. Internal component temperatures can also be standardized by specifying an ambient temperature and limits on operating time. Alternatively a computer usage model can be achieved using a factory test state such as a worst case state wherein each potential source of self generated noise are activated. Examples are performing repeated activations of drive motors exercising a user interface e.g. display audio speakers and running routines that exercise processors and co processors as well as various communication busses. Transmitters can also be energized.

Another aspect depicted is a wireless connection between the integrated device and the testing laptop . For example a personal area network PAN e.g. Bluetooth connection can avoid intrusive cable connection that can change integrity of the device e.g. grounding state changes . Such a wireless connection can pass through an appropriate conduit or an antenna not shown attached inside of the shielded environment . The noise contribution for the wireless connection can fall outside of the range of frequencies of interest or otherwise be mitigated.

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that functions of NPT application can be distributed between the host device and a remote testing device e.g. laptop . For example a limited utility can be present on the host device for gaining sufficient component control with analysis plotting and data recording performed by a remote device.

In a noise profiling system can include testing within an environment of a receiver module not shown that provides signal to noise or carrier to noise measurements rather than an absolute measure corresponding to received power. For example an integrated device can include an embedded global position system GPS receiver that measures signal to noise ratio SNR . This GPS capability is suggested by a constellation of GPS satellites . The device is tested within an environment that avoids spurious external noise which can include being in a remote environment or being in a shielded environment as depicted in . A known transmitter source generates an appropriate signal for the device to detect which can include measuring S N for various frequencies and over different orientations of the device . For example for iterations of a broadcast signal at a known power e.g. 110 dBm can a minimum 40 dB S N be achieved in any iteration if the expected system noise floor is less than 150 dBM or will the presence of any jammers reduce the maximum achievable S N to less than 40 dB.

In an exemplary graphical user interface GUI window for noise profiling testing NPT can advantageously record and depict frequency channel noise plot for each embedded receiver depicted at and . In order to detect time dependent noise sources a number of data samples can be taken for each channel e.g. 50 as depicted at . For situations in which an external jammer is to be used a test instrument configuration control depicted at can be specified. In the exemplary embodiment the embedded receiving module is a wireless module having both a transmitter and a receiver. Use of a transmitter of the wireless module can also be selectively activated by controls depicted at .

It should be appreciated that the NPT GUI window can be adapted for various computing platforms. In addition as used herein the term determining and grammatical variants thereof is used in an extremely broad sense. The term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like. Information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals and the like that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

In noise profile results of an NPT test can be plotted and analyzed with visibility into ambient Gaussian white noise AWGN contribution as well as short duration spurious noise sources illustrated by a first plot of a maximum values for each channel tested a 95percentile plot an average plot a median plot and a minimum plot . For example it can be determined for a given application that sufficient noise encoding can handle spurious noise above 95percentile so the 95percentile is noteworthy for identifying the frequency of spurious noise that can affect receiver sensitivity. In other instances general performance can be better analyzed with reference to median noise profiles which ignores spurious noise contributions unlike an average noise power that is affected by short duration self interference.

In a statistical analysis plot of the noise profile data provides a range plot a 90 to 10 plot and a standard deviation plot to give greater insight into the nature of the self interference.

In a time plot for three most variable channels are depicted with a channel plot a channel plot and a channel plot which can be helpful in locating a particular spurious noise source as a function of channel time and power.

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that other statistical analyses can be selected in addition to or as an alternative to those depicted. For example error correction encoding of a WCDMA device can compensate for 10 errors which can correlate to a 90percentile analyses.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the exemplary embodiments of the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in Random Access Memory RAM flash memory Read Only Memory ROM Electrically Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosed exemplary embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these exemplary embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

