---

title: Systems and methods for linking content to individual image features
abstract: A method, computer program, and system for linking content to individual image features are provided. A section of an image is identified. A plurality of features associated with the section of the image is determined. Each of the plurality of features corresponds to at least one position within the section of the image. Content associated with the plurality of features is retrieved from a content repository. The content is linked to the plurality of features based on at least one rule. The content is then presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08670617&OS=08670617&RS=08670617
owner: TerraGo Technologies, Inc.
number: 08670617
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080514
---
The research and development described in this application were supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA under grant number W31P4Q 07 C 0261 and the Department of Homeland Security DHS under grant number N00014 07 01 0149. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the claimed inventions.

The present invention generally relates to information management. More specifically the present invention relates to linking content to individual image features.

Conventionally prior processing of a document is required if the document is to be correlated to a position on an image. For example in order to correlate the document and an image containing aerial imagery or a geographical map representation the document is first searched for keywords or other text that may allude to a physical location. A position on the image containing aerial imagery or a geographical map representation that corresponds to the physical location is determined and the document may be correlated to the position on the image. Unfortunately an almost infinite number of documents may exist with information about the physical location which makes obtaining and processing all documents or documents most pertinent to a specific topic e.g. news for the physical location cumbersome.

A method computer program and system for linking content to individual image features are provided. A section of an image is identified. A plurality of features associated with the section of the image is determined. Each of the plurality of features corresponds to at least one position within the section of the image. Content associated with the plurality of features is retrieved from a content repository. The content is linked to the plurality of features based on at least one rule. The content is then presented.

According to various embodiments the local content repository may include a hardware device that may store content. The content and attributes thereof are discussed further herein. In some embodiments the content may be organized in a database within the local content repository . The hardware device may include a non removable peripheral device e.g. a hard drive and the like or a removable peripheral device e.g. a compact disc a digital video disc a USB flash drive and the like . Generally the local content repository may be accessed by the content linking engine without transferring the content over the network .

The remote content repository may be accessed by the content linking engine by transferring the content over the network . The content may be organized in another database within the remote content repository in accordance with some embodiments. In one example the remote content repository may include hardware devices similar to the local content repository . In another example the remote content repository may be delocalized. In a delocalized content repository segments of the content may be stored at dispersed physical locations each physical location having various methods of storing the content. An example of a delocalized content repository may include the Internet.

According to various embodiments the remote content repository may be public or private. A public content repository may include for example a municipal or public records database. An example of a private content repository may include a business or police database. In some embodiments the remote content repository may comprise the entire world wide web or a subset thereof e.g. a CNN website and or a Google news RSS feed .

In one example the computing device or components thereof may gather the content from the remote content repository . Gathered content may be used to build or generate the database within the local content repository . In some embodiments the database may be updated periodically or as new content is produced and or stored in the remote content repository . The database may also include archival content.

In various embodiments the content which is stored by the content repositories e.g. the local content repository and the remote content repository and accessible to the content linking engine may include various forms of information. In one example the content may include documents such as news articles police reports real estate listings advertisements manuals weblogs and any other primarily text based item. The content may also include pictures images audio media and video media. In another example the content may include links or cross references to third party content such as hyperlinks or uniform resource locators URLs . The links may lead to a search page such as a Yahoo or Google search page. According to some embodiments the content may be current i.e. essentially up to date while in other embodiments the content may comprise historical information. Further descriptions of the content are present herein.

In an exemplary application of one embodiment a user may wish to obtain specific content related to particular locations near a position on an image of San Diego. To illustrate the particular locations may include restaurants and the specific content may include menus or advertisements. The position on the image may correspond to where the user lives. Using the computing device and or the content linking engine the user may identify the position on the image and supply one or more descriptive words or phrases that delineate the specific content and the particular locations. In turn the content linking engine may determine and mark the particular locations near the position on the image and retrieve the specific content from the local content repository and or the remote content repository . Finally the content linking engine may present the specific content to the user.

The interface module may provide the user with an ability to interact with and or manipulate the computing device as well as the features module the extraction module the rules module and or the history module . The interface module may further provide the ability to choose or select an image and identify a section of the image. In one example the user may define a bounding box to identify the section of the image. In another example the user may indicate coordinates that define corners or boundaries of the section of the image. In some embodiments the section of the image may comprise a portion of the image that is viewable by the user. For example the section of the image may include the portion of the image that is currently displayed to the user on a screen or monitor in communication with the computing device . The interface module is discussed further herein in connection with the features module the extraction module the rules module the history module the search module and or the filter module as well as in connection with .

In various embodiments the image may include any likeliness or representation of an object place person or thing that is photographed painted or otherwise made visible. In one embodiment the image may comprise a frame of a video or movie. The image may correspond to a coordinate system wherein information may be associated with the coordinate system. For instance an image of a building may correspond to the coordinate system defined by a blueprint of the building. Information pertaining to the building such as floor plans wiring plumbing fire extinguisher locations occupant information hours of business and so on may be associated with the coordinate system. The information concerning the building may for example be useful to sales people first responders and remodelers. Similarly an image of a piece of machinery comprising several parts may correspond to the coordinate system defined by a mechanical drawing of the piece of machinery. Part numbers manuals for the parts part manufactures and other information related to the piece of machinery may be associated with the coordinate system. Mechanics merchandisers and hobbyists for example may find the information regarding the piece of machinery useful. In another example an image of the sky corresponds to the coordinate system to which information related to satellite orbits constellations stars and other heavenly bodies is correlated. Information associated with the image of the sky may be used by astronomers astrophysicists meteorologists and others concerned with aerospace. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the coordinate system may be two or three dimensional.

For the sake of continuity in describing various embodiments an example where the image includes geospatial imagery of an urban area will be revisited throughout. The geospatial imagery may comprise for example aerial imagery satellite imagery a map and or any other spatial representation of a geographic area or region. The geospatial imagery may correspond to a geographical coordinate system which may specify latitude and longitude coordinates. Parcel data may include road vectors parcel identifiers parcel coordinates schedule numbers neighborhood names codes subdivision names codes zoning information sale histories property descriptions inventories tax information school districts information about property owners or any combination thereof. Furthermore information comprising the parcel data may be used to obtain further information such as by an internet search of a specific address. The further information may be associated or combined with the parcel data. The parcel data may describe features portrayed in the geospatial imagery. The features are discussed further herein.

As mentioned herein the interface module may include the search module in accordance with various embodiments. In one example the search module may operate based on one or more user specified search parameters. Furthermore the section of the image may be identified automatically for example by the interface module when the user performs a search of the image. To illustrate referring to the example wherein the image includes geospatial imagery of the urban area the user specified search parameter may for example include the word zoo. Resultantly the search module may search within the image for a zoo. Providing that the zoo is within the urban area depicted by the image the interface module may automatically identify the section of the image that includes the zoo. The dimensions of the section of the image may be specified by the user or be defined by a default value according to various embodiments. The user specified search parameters may for example include addresses geographical coordinates parcel descriptions road names and intersections and any number of keywords pertaining to the urban area depicted in the geospatial imagery included in the image.

The features module may determine the features associated with the section of the image. Furthermore the features may correspond to separate positions within the section of the image. In the example where the image includes geospatial imagery of the urban area the features may include businesses residences hospitals geological features roads or any other feature associated with the geospatial image. In determining the features the features module may rely in part on information associated to the geographical coordinate system corresponding to the image. According to various embodiments a knowledgebase i.e. a specialized database for knowledge management may be generated to manage the information associated to the image. In the context of the geospatial imagery the knowledgebase may be referred to as a geoknowledgebase. Many datasets may also be used to generate the geoknowledgebase including the parcel data. In addition gazetteers such as those available from the United States Geological Survey USGS may be used to generate the geoknowledgebase. The gazetteers may include names addresses and specific coordinates for certain features. Road vector data may be obtained for example from NAVTEQ and provide road coordinates and other information e.g. names number of lanes and width for the geoknowledgebase.

In various embodiments the features module may determine addresses from the geoknowledgebase. Based on the addresses the features module may determine information related to the addresses such as names of businesses residents and descriptions of buildings located at the addresses. Roads may also be determined as features by the features module for example using road vectors included in the geoknowledgebase. The features determined by the features module may be stored in the geoknowledgebase. The geoknowledgebase may reside in the permanent and or temporary memory included in the computing device or in any hardware device that may be accessed by the computing device and or the content linking engine via the communication network in accordance with various embodiments. Additionally the section of the image identified in conjunction with the interface module may delimit a spatial query of the geoknowledgebase such that only the features within the section of the image are determined by the features module .

In various embodiments the features module may accurately determine the features when the geographical coordinate system is aligned with the image. In the example involving the geospatial imagery the geographical coordinate system defined by the geoknowledgebase may be aligned with the geospatial imagery. Alignment of the geoknowledgebase with the geospatial imagery may ensure that depictions of the features on the image correspond to actual physical locations of the features. The alignment of any coordinate system with a corresponding image may be equally applicable in embodiments other than those involving the geospatial imagery and the geoknowledgebase.

The geoknowledgebase may define a spatial extent of some or all of the features according to some embodiments. To illustrate the spatial extent of the features may include points lines polygons and or three dimensional shapes. In one example the spatial extent of a road may comprise a line whereas a point may be the spatial extent of an intersection. A polygon such as a rectangle may define the spatial extent of a building. The interface module may specify the features in a way more representative or descriptive of the actual features as a result of defining the spatial extent.

The interface module may specify the features determined by the features module in a multitude of ways. In one example the features may be marked by an icon that is overlaid on the image at the position that corresponds to the positions of the features. The appearance of the icon may for example be related to a characteristic or associated topic of the features. For instance referring to the example where the image includes geospatial imagery if a given feature determined by the features module is a fire station the icon may portray a fireman s hat and be located on the image at the position corresponding to the address of the fire station.

In another example of ways in which the interface module may specify the features elements of the image corresponding to the features determined by the features module may be outlined highlighted or otherwise accentuated by the interface module . Accentuation of the features may be based on the spatial extent of the features. For instance again referring to the example where the image includes geospatial imagery one feature determined by the features module may be a road. The element of the image corresponding to the road e.g. a grouping of pixels that portray the road in the image may be replaced for example by a red line. Furthermore text describing the name of the road may be positioned adjacent to the red line.

As mentioned herein the features module may include the filter module . The filter module may aid the user in narrowing the number of and or scope of the features determined by the features module . In one embodiment the filter module may operate based on one or more user specified filter parameters. In one example the user specified filter parameter may designate businesses owned by residents such that only businesses that are owned by residents within the section of the image may be determined by the features module . In another example the user specified filter parameter may indicate homes sold in May for less than 150 000. Consequentially only features that satisfy the conditions indicated by the user specified filter parameter within the section of the image may be determined by the features module .

The extraction module may retrieve the content that is associated with the features from a content repository such as the local content repository and or the remote content repository . The features determined by the features module may be used for example as keywords in searching for the content. In one example the extraction module may search the text of the documents stored by the remote content repository and retrieve the documents that are associated with the features based on the results of the search. In another example the content may be assigned an index. In such a case the extraction module may retrieve content based on the index. Additionally foreign language content may be retrieved.

Various media e.g. pictures images audio and video may comprise the content retrieved by the extraction module in some embodiments. For example speech recognition software may be used to convert speech included in an audio file to text that may be searched by the extraction module . Likewise closed captions of a video file may also be searched for the keywords. Additionally header files of the various media may be searched by the extraction module . The extraction module may determine a type of the content and for example retrieve the content based on the type.

The rules module may link the content retrieved by the extraction module to the features determined by the features module based on a set of rules. The set of rules may be predefined such as by a system designer and or established by the user. The interface module may be utilized by the user to manipulate the rules module as mentioned herein. In some embodiments the set of rules may be based in part on the type of the content retrieved by the extraction module .

In one example a single document associated with the content may include references to several of the features in the section of the image. The rules module may determine whether one of the features is most relevant to the single document based on the set of rules. The rules module may then link the single document to the most relevant feature. Many rubrics may be used in determining which one of the features is most relevant to the single document. For instance a priority may be based on the spatial extent of the features referenced in the single document. To illustrate a point like spatial extent may have a higher priority than a linear or a polygonal spatial extent.

The rules module may also order the content according to relevance considering that the extraction module may retrieve numerous documents comprising the content that all include references to a single feature. The rules module may determine the relevance of each of the numerous documents and order the numerous documents according to the relevance. The rules module may for example link the most relevant document or a range of relevant documents e.g. the ten most relevant documents to the feature.

The interface module may present the content subsequently concurrently or prior to the content being linked to the features by the rules module . In one example the content may be presented along with the section of the image. The content may be presented separately for example in an internet browser window. In another example the content may be printed to a hardcopy by a printer. According to some embodiments the interface module may wait for an action by the user before presenting the content.

An interaction between the user and the icon or the accentuated feature may be an example of the action by the user. In one example the user may use a mouse to click on the icon to cause the interface module to present the content. In another example the user may move the cursor over the accentuated feature i.e. a mouseover in order to display the content. In an embodiment where the computing device is portable e.g. a PDA or Smartphone the user may for example select the icon using a stylus or a finger. As one skilled in the art will acknowledge the action by the user may initiate prompt or otherwise affect a variety of functions processes tasks or other actions by various embodiments.

In association with the interaction between the user and the icon or the accentuated feature the interface module may provide various options. In one example a balloon may emanate from the features offering one or more options to the user as described further herein. The options may include for example how to present the content associated with the features. In another example the content associated with the features may appear in a frame separate from the interface module such as an internet browser window.

According to various embodiments the history module may provide to the user a record of activities performed by the user. Examples of the record of the activities performed by the user may include the sections of the images that have been viewed and the searches that have been performed such as in a list format. In some embodiments the record may span a predetermined length of time. To illustrate the record may indicate the activities performed by the user in the last week.

The history module may provide to the user a record of content retrieved by the extraction module . The record may for example be stored by the computing device as described in connection with . According to various embodiments the record may be presented to the user by the interface module in an assortment of formats as discussed further in connection to .

At step a section of an image is identified. As discussed herein the image may include any representation of an object place person or thing. For example the image may include a likeness of the object or the person. The image may include items that are photographed painted or otherwise made visible. The user may be provided the ability to identify the section of the image by for example the interface module . The section of the image may be identified by a bounding box coordinates that define the boundaries of the section or automatically by the interface module according to various embodiments. In one example the section of the image may comprise the portion of the image that is currently presented to the user on a screen or monitor. In some embodiments the section of the image may be determined in part by the use of a search procedure such as may be provided by the search module .

At step a plurality of features associated with the section of the image is determined. Furthermore each of the plurality of features may correspond to at least one position within the section of the image. The plurality of features may be determined for example by the features module . As discussed herein information regarding the plurality of features may be embedded in the image or stored elsewhere. The plurality of features may be specified by the interface module according to various means such as by highlighting one or more of the plurality of features or overlaying an icon on the image at the position of the one or more the plurality of features. In some embodiments the plurality of features may be determined in part by the use of a filter procedure such as may be provided by the filter module .

At step content is retrieved from a content repository wherein the content is associated with the plurality of features determined at the step . As discussed herein the extraction module may retrieve the content that is associated with the plurality of features from the local content repository and or the remote content repository .

At step the content is linked to the plurality of features based on at least one rule. In exemplary embodiments the rules module may link the content to the plurality of features base on at least one rule. Numerous rules may be invoked by the rules module in linking the content such as rules based on the type of the content and or the spatial extent of the features.

At step the content is presented. For example the content may be presented to the user that requests the search for the plurality of features or by any other user. The content may be utilized to generate a report associated with one or more of the plurality of features such as a report about a location on a map according to exemplary embodiments. As discussed herein the interface module may facilitate presenting the content. Presentation of the content is described further herein in connection to B and .

In another exemplary application of various embodiments the user may possess an image of a map representing Kansas City. The image may be displayed on the monitor in communication with the computing device . The user may identify the section of the image that contains a potential real estate acquisition by positioning the bounding box around the section using a mouse coupled to the computing device in conjunction with the interface module . The section of the image may expand to fill the display. The user specified filter parameter may include the phrase police reports for incidents in the last six months. Based on the user specified filter parameter the features module may determine the features such as the residences and the businesses within the section of the image that are associated with police reports for incidents in the last six months. The interface module may place a colored dot on each position on the section of the image that corresponds to the features. In turn the extraction module may retrieve the police reports from the police database and store the police reports in the local content repository . The rules module may then link the most relevant police reports to the features. By clicking on each colored dot the interface module may present a relevant police report associated with an individual feature to the user as described herein.

In some embodiments the content associated with the feature and linked to the icon such as news documents may include text based documents. In the example presented in the news documents include news articles related to the physical location of the feature marked by the icon . According to one embodiment the content may have been retrieved by the extraction module from the local content repository and or the remote content repository based on a keyword such as keyword .

In the screenshot the section may be identified automatically by the interface module in conjunction with the search module according to various embodiments. The location field may facilitate the user in manipulating the search module . In the example illustrated by screenshot the user may specify a city a state and or coordinates e.g. geographical or image coordinates . Furthermore the user may specify a region within the city e.g. downtown . In one example the user may instruct or prompt the search module to proceed with a search for a location by clicking on the Set Location icon . In another example the user may optionally not invoke the search module and rather identify the section by making a section of interest visible in the interface module . In some embodiments the user may manipulate a view of the image using a pointing device such as the mouse the coupled to the computing device .

Subsequent to the section of the image being identified the features module may determine features associated with the section where the features correspond to at least one position within the section . In some embodiments the features may be determined in response to the user clicking the Get Features icon . In other embodiments the features module may be configured to determine the features immediately after the section is identified. In one example the features module determines the features in conjunction with the filter module not shown in . In the screenshot a plurality of icons each similar to the feature marking icon may mark the features. According to various embodiments a portion of the features within the section may be marked by icons while the remaining features may be accentuated as described herein.

By emanating from the feature marking icon the text balloon may indicate that the feature marking icon has been selected by the user. As mentioned herein the user may select an icon or feature by a variety of actions by the user. According to some embodiments the function of the text balloon may be replaced for example by a pop up window or other prompt to the user.

The extraction module may retrieve content associated with the features from a content repository e.g. the local content repository and or the remote content repository . In one example the extraction module may retrieve content in response to the user clicking the Get News icon . In this example the extraction module may be configured to retrieve content that is related to news associated with the features.

Subsequent to the content being retrieved by the extraction module the rules module may link the content to the features as described herein. According to various embodiments information related to the content that is associated with a selected icon such as the feature marking icon may be displayed in the content information list . In the screenshot the information includes a title and a date published of the content that is associated with the selected icon. In some embodiments the information may include category type source number of views or other description of the content associated with the selected icon.

The features with content list indicates the features that the extraction module has retrieved associated content for in accordance with some embodiments. In one example the user may click the name of one of the features indicated by the features with content list to change which feature is designated as the selected feature thereby changing which feature the text balloon emanates from and which information is displayed in the content information list .

As discussed herein the content may be displayed by the interface module or be displayed separately such as by an internet browser window according to various embodiments. The user may for example click on one of the titles displayed in the content information list to view the content associated with the feature marked by the feature marking icon .

The above described components and functions can be comprised of instructions that are stored on a computer readable storage medium. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processor e.g. the processor . Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage medium are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the invention. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage medium.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

