---

title: Information processing system and related method thereof
abstract: An information processing system includes a first electronic device, a second electronic device and a processing module. The first electronic device processes a first task. The second electronic device processes a second task. The processing module, controls, without utilizing an operating system, the second electronic device to process the second task for a first specific time period during which the first electronic device does not process the first task which was being processed before the first specific time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782648&OS=08782648&RS=08782648
owner: MStar Semiconductor, Inc.
number: 08782648
owner_city: ChuPei, Hsin-Chu Hsien
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20080910
---
The present invention relates to an information processing system and particularly relates to an information processing system utilizing no operating system.

Conventionally a TV system utilizes an operating system OS to process tasks via a joint processing method. The joint processing method can be described as follows. Assuming there are three tasks A B C then task A is divided into A A A B is divided into B B B and C is divided into C C C. Ais first processed then is Band the next one is C. . . and so on until the tasks A B and C are processed.

Since the operating system utilizes the joint processing method to process various tasks a large amount of data accessing and processing operations will be generated. Thus related problems and the instability of the system may occur. Also in order to match the operating system of a TV system the firmware or codes for the TV system should be designed specifically for the TV system thus also increasing the design complexity of the system. Besides a more powerful processing unit is needed to perform the complete operating system function again increasing the cost of the system.

Therefore one objective of the present invention is to provide an information processing system and related methods thereof to utilize no operating system to control a plurality of electronic devices to operate following orders.

One embodiment of the present invention discloses a information processing system including a first electronic device a second electronic device and a processing module. The first electronic device processes a first task. The second electronic device processes a second task. The processing module controls without utilizing an operating system the second electronic device to process the second task for a first specific time period during which the first electronic device does not process the first task which was being processed before the first specific time period.

Another embodiment of the present invention discloses a information processing system which comprises a first electronic device a second electronic device a third electronic device and a processing module. The first electronic device serves to process a first task. The second electronic device serves to process a second task. The third electronic device serves to process a third task wherein the first the second and the third electronic devices do not process the first the second and the third tasks simultaneously and the first the second and the third electronic devices have different priorities. The processing module controls without utilizing an operating system the second electronic device to process the second task or controls the third electronic device to process the third task according to the priorities for a specific time period during which the first electronic device does not process the first task which was being processed before the specific time period.

Another embodiment of the present invention discloses an information processing method which is performed under a circumstance where no operating system is utilized. The method includes a process a first task b process a second task wherein the first and the second tasks are not processed simultaneously and c process the second task for a first specific time period during which the first task is not processed.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

One method to determine which one of the first second and third tasks is suitable for processing is to give priorities to the first second and third electronic devices and and determine which task should be processed first according to the priorities. In this embodiment the first electronic device has priority over the second electronic device and the second electronic device has a higher prior than the third electronic device . Therefore the controlling module first controls the first electronic device to process the first task and controls the second electronic device to process the second task for the specific time period T when the first electronic device does not processing the first task for the specific time period T. Also when the second electronic device cannot process the second task in the specific time period the controlling module controls the third electronic device to process the third task. Similarly when the second electronic device processes the second task but must stop processing the second task in a specific time period the controlling module will first determine if there is a first task that needs to be processed if so process the first task and process the third task only if no first tasks need to be processed. Briefly the concept of processing a task and determining which task is suitable for processing in the stopped time in which the original task cannot be processed is not limited to the above mentioned embodiments and such a concept can also be realized in other embodiments which also fall in the scope of the present invention.

One reference to determining the priorities can be the importance of the tasks the more important the task the higher priority is given. This is not meant to limit the scope of the present invention methods other than priorities can also be utilized to determine which task should be processed first e.g. the amount of data required in the tasks and such variations should also fall within the scope of the present invention.

Additionally the processing module can be implemented by a single processing unit as in prior art but also can be implemented by a first processing unit and a second processing unit as shown in . When a single processing unit is utilized since the processing unit should suffer all controlling burden a powerful processing unit is needed thereby increasing the cost. When two processing units are utilized the overall function can be controlled by the processing units. For example in the embodiment shown in the first processing unit can be in charge of the state parameter setting or priorities setting and the second processing unit can control the operation of each electronic device. In this way two normal processing units can be utilized the cost of which will be lower than a single powerful processing unit. It should be noted that the number of the processing units utilized by the processing module according to the embodiment of the present invention is not limited to two more than two processing units also can be utilized.

Process the second task for a first specific time period without utilizing an operating system when the first task is being processed and must be stopped in the first specific time period.

Select without utilizing an operating system a second task from the tasks according to the priorities and process the second task in a first specific time period when the first task is being processed and must be stopped in the first specific time period or when the first task is completed.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention.

