---

title: Algorithms for generating parameters for genus 2 hyperelliptic curve cryptography
abstract: An exemplary method includes defining a CM field, representing coefficients of a Frobenius element of a hyperelliptic curve over a prime field as non-linear polynomials that are functions of an integer x and selecting a value for x whereby the product of the Frobenius element and its complex conjugate is a prime number. Such a method may further include determining the order of the Jacobian of the hyperelliptic curve, for example, where the order is an almost prime number. Various other methods, devices, systems, etc., are also disclosed, which may be optionally used for cryptography.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08520841&OS=08520841&RS=08520841
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08520841
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080522
---
Public key cryptographic techniques are one type of key based cipher. In public key cryptography each communicating party has a public private key pair. The public key of each pair is made publicly available or at least available to others who are intended to send encrypted communications but the private key is kept secret. In order to communicate a message using encryption to a receiving party an originating party encrypts the message using the public key of the receiving party and communicates the encrypted message to the receiving party. Upon receipt of the encrypted message the receiving party decrypts it using its secret private key and thereby recovers the original message.

The Diffie Hellman protocol is a well known example of public private key cryptography. The DH protocol assumes that it is infeasible to compute g the shared secret knowing only g and g. For example Alice and Bob agree to use a prime number p 23 and base g 5. Alice chooses a secret integer 6 then sends Bob g mod p which is 5mod 23 8. Bob chooses a secret integer 15 then sends Alice g mod p which is 5mod 23 19. Alice computes g mod p mod p which is 19mod 23 2. Bob computes g mod p mod p which is 8mod 23 2.

In recent years the original DH protocol has been understood to be an example of a much more general cryptographic technique the common element being the derivation of a shared secret value i.e. a shared key from one party s public key and another party s private key. The parties key pairs may be generated anew at each run of the protocol.

New curve based cryptography techniques have recently been employed for cryptography. Such techniques allow for more secure communications and for software manufacturers to appreciably reduce the incidence of unauthorized copying of software products. For example product IDs have been generated using hyperelliptic curve cryptography techniques HECC techniques . The resulting product IDs provide improved security. Moreover such IDs can be configured such that the user is not required to input too many characters.

Jacobian groups of HECs are suitable for discrete logarithmic DL cryptosystems e.g. ElGamal DH and digital signature cryptosystems . In HECC a Jacobian of a curve of genus g provides a number of points over a finite field F of q elements F where the number of points is approximately q. In order to use the Jacobian of a curve for cryptography suitable parameters must be chosen. One such parameter pertains to the underlying finite field Fover which the curve is defined. Another important parameter is the cardinality N of the F rational Jacobian of the curve. For many implementations of a discrete logarithm based cryptosystem Fshould be a prime field i.e. q is a prime number p i.e. F and N the cardinality or group order of the Jacobian is prime or close to a prime number. Some refer to this as the group order problem on HECs over finite fields. Generally solutions proceed by fixing a particular type of number field called a Complex Multiplication CM field i.e. a totally imaginary field quadratic extension of a totally real number field and then finding a suitable prime p and a possible group order N or possible group orders e.g. N N . . . N .

Generation of the parameter values for p and N can be time consuming for a genus 2 curve with a cryptographic size of 128 bits as it involves counting the number of points on the Jacobian of the curve over a prime field. As described herein various exemplary algorithms are presented for generating cryptographically strong parameters e.g. a p and one or more N s for the CM construction of genus 2 curves.

An exemplary method includes defining a CM field representing coefficients of a Frobenius element of a hyperelliptic curve over a prime field as non linear polynomials that are functions of an integer x and selecting a value for x whereby the product of the Frobenius element and its complex conjugate is a prime number. Such a method may further include determining the order of the Jacobian of the hyperelliptic curve for example where the order is an almost prime number. Various other methods devices systems etc. are also disclosed which may be optionally used for cryptography.

Various exemplary methods devices and system described herein pertain to hyperelliptic curve cryptosystems HECCs . An exemplary algorithm can generate parameter values p and N for an underlying finite field Ffor an HEC and the cardinality N of the F rational Jacobian of the HEC respectively. An exemplary algorithm represents the parameter p in terms of polynomials. Such an algorithm can reduce computation requirements e.g. computation time or resource requirements . Such an exemplary algorithm can start from a specific collection of invariants associated to a primitive quartic complex multiplication CM field denoted K.

An exemplary method can start with a Complex Multiplication CM field which is a number field meaning that it is a finite extension of the field of the rational numbers. In such a method a finite field is defined by the prime number p which is one of the parameters of a cryptosystem i.e. the number of elements of the finite field is a prime number p so it may be called a prime field . For a defined CM field one wants to find a genus 2 curve e.g. given by an appropriate equation over a prime field such that the endomorphism ring of the Jacobian of the curve over the prime field is a subring of the ring of the algebraic integers of the CM field.

In the foregoing method the various mathematical objects can be identified such as i a prime field ii a genus 2 curve over a prime field iii a Jacobian of the curve over a prime field iv an endomorphism ring of the Jacobian of the curve over a prime field v a CM field and vi algebraic integers of the CM field.

As described herein i a prime field F is a field with p elements where p is a prime number ii a genus 2 curve over a prime field is given by an equation in two variables e.g. x and y with coefficients in the prime field F iii the Frational points of the Jacobian of the curve is a mathematical object related to the curve but not a subset of the curve and given a curve equation over a prime field Fp its Jacobian is a finite set whose order cardinality is denoted by N iv the endomorphism ring algebra of the Jacobian is another mathematical object that is related to the Jacobian but not a subset of the Jacobian and v vi the algebraic integers of the CM field is a subset of the CM field .

Accordingly an endomorphism ring algebra of the Jacobian of a genus 2 curve is desired to be a subring of the ring of algebraic integers of a CM field. In other words the ring of the algebraic integers of a CM field has the endomorphism ring of the Jacobian as a subset. This is an inclusion relation that involves the endomorphism ring of the Jacobian and the algebraic integers of the CM field . Further the Frobenius element is sought to be an element of the endomorphism ring and hence an element of the subring of the ring of algebraic integers of the CM field. Or more generally the Frobenius element is sought to be an element of the ring of integers of the CM field.

Various exemplary algorithms can be combined to form an overall algorithm. Implementation of these algorithms is described further below with respect to some actual trial results.

Let K Q where i a b d if d 2 3 mod 4 and i a 0.5b 1 d if d 1 mod 4 be a fixed primitive quartic CM field where d 0 is squarefree and Q d has class number 1. The condition that K is primitive is equivalent to 0 is not a square where a bd 0 if d 2 3 mod 4 and a a b 0.25b d 1 if d 1 mod 4 .

As described herein it is desirable to construct a genus 2 hyperelliptic curve C over a finite field Fof prime order such that End JacF C Q K and N JacF C is almost prime meaning that N is a product of a large prime number and a small cofactor. If such a curve C is found then there exists an element called the Frobenius element End JacF C i.e. is an endomorphism on the Jacobian of the curve C over the finite field F that satisfies the condition that q where is the complex conjugate of .

In the analysis described herein the concept of Weil numbers may be used. For example let p be a prime and q pa power of p. An algebraic integer is called a q Weil number if q pand is any conjugate of .

Assume that the Frobenius element is in an order as follows for two particular cases first case and second case if 2 3 mod 4 and 0.5 1 0.5 1 if 1 mod 4 . The first case is described followed by the second case. In the first case d 2 3 mod 4 the Frobenius element is written c cd c c c Z.

Since 1 and dare linearly independent over Q the following equations exist 2 1 2 20 2 Also for the first case let and denote the imaginary and real embeddings of K into .

For the present analysis a prime number p is roughly the size of N i.e. p N . A technique described by Weng Constructing hyperelliptic curves of genus 2 suitable for cryptography Vol. 72 No. 241 pp. 435 458 2002 searches for parameters to provide prime p and almost prime N with a heuristic probability 1 log N . While this probability may be acceptable for some implementations the technique of Weng relies on factorization of big integers repeatedly in every step of the search which makes the Weng technique computationally intensive e.g. slow or unsuitable for devices with limited computing resources . The Weng article is incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary algorithm described herein is more efficient than the technique of Weng for generating parameters for genus 2 cryptography. The exemplary algorithm includes parameterizing the coefficients c e.g. where i 1 2 . . . n as polynomials c x and then generating families of parameters by factorizing quartic polynomials with small integral coefficients. In this representation x is an integer which may be selected as described further below.

An exemplary algorithm finds polynomials c x c x c x c x Q x for example all of the same degree to control the sizes of parameters satisfying the equation 2 2 

Given a polynomial representation and the foregoing equation p x can be written as 2 Given this representation of p an exemplary algorithm lets x range through integer values e.g. of certain sizes until the value p x is a prime number. Once the value of p x is a prime number Equation 3 can be used to compute the cardinality of the Jacobian N and check if it is almost prime i.e. is N almost prime .

Examine the quadratic equations 20 6 20 7 Both Equations 6 and 7 have discriminant 2a 4b bd 4 a bd 0 which is not a square in Q by the assumption on a b and d namely that K is primitive. Therefore Equation 5 holds if and only if c c 0. Hence c c 0. By Equation 5 one can conclude that is a zero of 2c x c x with multiplicity 2. Since c x and c x are linear one must have c 0. Therefore the polynomial 2 has as a zero of multiplicity 2. So x p x in Q x . Obviously p x is reducible.

Since it is desirable to want p x to be prime for some values x Z it is reasonable given Lemma 1 and corresponding proof to expect p x to be irreducible. Therefore an exemplary technique chooses c x and c x to be quadratic polynomials as elaborated with respect to Algorithm 1 below.

Output Four quadratic polynomials c x c x c X c x and a quartic polynomial p x are generated such that they satisfy Equations 1 and 2 . Polynomials N x and N x of degree 8 are generated as possible group orders.

For the case d 1 mod 4 the Frobenius element can be written as 0.5 1 0.5 1 Again p gives 0.25 1 0.5 1 0.25 1 2 2 0.25 3 0.5 1 The linear independence of 1 and 0.5 1 d over Q implies the following two equations 0.25 1 0.5 1 0.25 1 8 2 2 0.25 3 0 9 The corresponding cardinality or order of the Jacobian is as follows 1 4 2 1 4 0.25 1 10 

Output Four quadratic polynomials c x c x c x c x and a quartic polynomial p x are generated such that they satisfy the equations 8 and 9 . Polynomials N x and N x of degree 8 are generated as possible group orders.

The polynomials returned from Algorithms 1 and Algorithm 2 are candidates of parameter generator polynomials. These polynomials can be inserted with various integer values for x where the values are of a suitable size until p x is prime and N x or N x is almost prime. Hence the Algorithms 1 and Algorithm 2 can provide for a parameter value for p i.e. a large prime and two cardinalities or orders Nand N which also depend on the value of the integer x. This process is written formally as Algorithm 3 which follows.

Input Polynomials c x p x N x and N x generated by Algorithm 1 or Algorithm 2 bit size of the desired size of the prime field over which the curve is defined and the maximum number of trials M.

Output Triples p N N for constructing hyperelliptic curves over Fwith CM by K Q whose Jacobians have almost prime group orders Nor N 2 or Not found .

In the example of a decision block follows that decides if the product is a prime number p . If the decision block decides that the product is not a prime number then the method returns to the selection and determination block to select a different value for the integer x. However if the product is a prime number then the method continues at a determination block that determines the order cardinality of the Jacobian of the HEC over the prime field defined by this prime number. Another decision block decides if the order is almost a prime number. If the decision block decides that the order is not almost a prime number then the method continues at the selection and determination block to select a different value for the integer x. However if the decision block decides that the order is almost a prime number then the method terminates in a termination block as a prime i.e. the product and an order e.g. N have been found that meet certain criteria.

While the method shows only a single order being determined in the determination block as explained above more than one order may be determined. For example the method may determine a triple p N N where the decision block decides if one of the orders is almost prime which may be sufficient. The existence of multiple orders stems from the multiplicity of solutions as described with respect to Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2 above.

The method searches for factorizations of polynomials as opposed to the technique of Weng which searches for factorizations of integers. The method essentially parameterizes the coefficients of the Frobenius element as non linear polynomials e.g. polynomials having a degree greater than 1 . In various examples polynomials having a degree of two were used to represent the coefficients of the Frobenius element. As described herein polynomials of higher degree may be optionally used noting that for sake of simplicity second order polynomials suffice.

In the method the decision block decides if the product which may be represented by an equation p x is a prime number or in other words is irreducible. In the decision block the decision is made based on deciding if the order is almost irreducible. A large integer is almost prime if it can be written as a product of a large prime number and a relatively small cofactor. For example the following 256 bit number N can be regarded as almost prime 

N 2 3638555515567421684740904741034969843467489715905698789507501051244685516163 which is a product of a small number 2 16 and a large 252 bit prime number. For purposes of the method the standard for almost irreducible or almost prime can be determined by specifying one or more criteria e.g. number of prime factors .

Once the publication occurs the method may be used in a two party key exchange as follows. As explained in the Background section the DH protocol assumes that it is infeasible to compute g the shared secret knowing only g and g. According to the method Alice and Bob agree to use a public point on the Jacobian as base g. Alice chooses a secret exponent and then sends Bob g. Bob chooses a secret exponent and then sends Alice g. To derive the shared secret Alice computes g and Bob computes g.

The system further includes a network that allows for communication between parties and acquisition and sharing of cryptographic information. For example parties Alice and Bob desire to communicate in a secure manner over the network . Alice relies on a computing device to generate a private key while Bob relies on a computing device to generate a private key . According to the timeline the computing device generates and publishes the public key which is acquired by the devices and . The device raises the public key to a power determined by the private key i.e. the private key may simply be a scaler and the device raises the public key to a power determined by the private key . The values determined by the device and the device are then transmitted to each other. Once received the device and the device can determine a shared key by for example raising the public key to the power determined by a respective private key i.e. the private key for the device and the private key by the device .

While several possible schemes have been described the information generated by the algorithms may be used in any of a variety of secure transactions. For example information may be used to secure products such as software products.

An exemplary computing device e.g. the device of includes a processor and processor executable instructions to define a CM field to represent coefficients of a Frobenius element of a hyperelliptic curve over a prime field as non linear polynomials that are functions of an integer x and to select a value for x whereby the product of the Frobenius element and its complex conjugate is a prime number. Such a device may further include instructions to determine the order of the Jacobian of the hyperelliptic curve where the order comprises an almost prime number. Such a device may further include a network interface configured to communicate the prime number the almost prime number or the prime number and the almost prime number for use in a cryptographic protocol.

In various examples a cryptographic protocol may be a discrete logarithm based protocol e.g. a protocol selected from a group consisting of an ElGammal protocol a Diffie Hellman protocol and a digital signature protocol .

An exemplary computing device optionally includes instructions to protect a software product using directly or indirectly a selected integer x that generates the prime number. For example using the Jacobian of a hyperelliptic curve determined by a selected value for the integer x.

Trial Results Implementation of the foregoing algorithms produced trial results that were compared to the results achieved using the technique described in the article by Weng. The exemplary algorithms generated prime group order pairs p N with respect to randomly chosen quartic CM fields specified by parameters a b d of small sizes with class number 1. Trial factorization of integers up to a fixed bound 10 000 was used for the technique of Weng.

 A In the case d 2 3 mod 4 the exemplary Algorithm 3 generated parameter pairs p N at an average rate of 2.1402 seconds per pair while the technique of Weng generated pairs at 7.7538 seconds per pair.

 B In the case d 1 mod 4 our method generates parameter pairs at an average rate of 3.6423 seconds per pair while the technique of Weng generated pairs at 11.4407 seconds per pair.

 A In the case d 2 3 mod 4 the exemplary Algorithm 3 generated parameter pairs at an average rate of 21.7344 seconds per pair while the technique of Weng generated pairs at 97.9592 seconds per pair.

 B In the case d 1 mod 4 the exemplary Algorithm 3 generated parameter pairs at an average rate of 41.0917 seconds per pair while the technique of Weng generated pairs at 108.5106 seconds per pair.

Trials demonstrated robust operation noting that in rare instances the exemplary Algorithm 3 failed to find suitable parameters. Given the robust operation of Algorithm 3 on average as the size of the prime p increases Algorithm 3 performs better than the technique of Weng if complete factorization of integers is used for the technique of Weng.

Trials were performed using PARI GP which is a widely used computer algebra system designed for fast computations in number theory factorizations algebraic number theory elliptic curves etc. that also contains a large number of other useful functions to compute with mathematical entities such as matrices polynomials power series algebraic numbers etc. and transcendental functions.

In the trial results that follow the primes p x corresponding to value x are of 128 bits and the group orders N x are almost prime in this case a product of a positive integer

In a very basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . The operating system include a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API such as that of the .NET Framework marketed by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The device is of a very basic configuration demarcated by a dashed line . Again a terminal may have fewer components but will interact with a computing device that may have such a basic configuration.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well know in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. Communication connections are one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data forms. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

