---

title: More safe insensitive munition for producing a controlled fragmentation pattern
abstract: A warhead includes a body, a patterned liner made of plastic, and an explosive charge disposed within the liner. The liner pattern is formed of gaps and liner elements. The explosive charge includes a first set of sections that are disposed adjacent to the liner gaps and a second set of sections that are disposed adjacent to the liner elements. Upon detonation of the explosive charge and because of the temporal delay in transmitting the detonation energy between these two sets of sections, the warhead body is caused to shear and break into fragments with controlled size. The use of plastic as the liner material also provides a welcome safety feature for this warhead. In the event of unwanted heat ignition, the plastic (which is also low melt temperature material), would melt to seal the explosive and would also flow. Because of the plastic, neither sudden pressure nor heat/ignition inside the round, would therefore be as catastrophic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07886667&OS=07886667&RS=07886667
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07886667
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081015
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The present invention generally relates to the field of ballistics and in particular to casings of explosively formed projectiles shaped charges and other munitions. More specifically the present invention pertains to the controlled fragmentation of the munition casing or warhead body.

Warhead fragmentation effectiveness is determined by the number mass shape and velocity of the fragments. By using a controlled fragmentation design warhead fragmentation could generally be achieved quickly and cost effectively. Exemplary controlled fragmentation techniques are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 491 694 4 312 274 4 745 864 5 131 329 and 5 337 673.

In general conventional designs use cutter liners that form fragments by generating a complex pattern of high velocity penetrators for fragmenting the shell. Although these conventional fragmentation designs have proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional functional cost and safety improvements that minimize the warhead weight reduce manufacture expenses and advance current United States Insensitive Munition IM requirements.

What is therefore needed is a controlled fragmentation technique through the use of a patterned liner which introduces shear stress into the warhead body and creates the desired fragmentation pattern. Fragment size fragment numbers and patterns thereof may be influenced through a novel liner configuration. The need for such a controlled fragmentation technique has heretofore remained unsatisfied.

The present invention satisfies these needs and presents a munition or warhead such as a projectile and an associated method for generating a controlled fragmentation pattern herein referred to as the invention or the present invention .

According to the present invention warhead fragmentation is achieved more efficiently and more cost effectively than conventional techniques through the use of a relatively inexpensive formed plastic liner or liners with a predetermined pattern of cutouts. According to the present invention the shear and stamp liner cutouts generate contours of localized transitional regions with high gradients of pressures velocities strains and strain rates acting as stress and strain concentration factors. Unstable thermoplastic shear adiabatic shear eventually transfers the entire burden of localized strain to a finite number of shear planes leading to the shell break up and formation of fragments.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the warhead includes a liner that is disposed inside the warhead body. The liner includes a predetermined pattern that is created with gaps filled with the warhead s explosive such allowing the detonation shock wave to directly propagate into the fragmenting case without passing through the liner. As a result the explosion produces a complex pattern of shear planes in the warhead body causing the case break up and formation of fragments with predetermined sizes. This design is distinguishable from existing fragmentation liner technologies that attempt to score or cut the warhead body.

One of the advantages of the present embodiment compared to existing technologies is the cost effectiveness of the manufacturing process of the present design in that it is faster and more economical to fabricate and to pattern a plastic liner as opposed to notching or cutting the steel warhead body itself. An advantage of the present invention is that the use of plastic material reduces the overall weight of the warhead compared with use of other materials as do the gaps which reduce the weight of the liner. But more important the use of plastic is a great safety feature. An unwanted ignition of the explosive due to the heat of launch would normally be catastrophic as well as fratricidal. But the plastic of this invention covers the explosive inside the casing body. In the event of unwanted heat ignition the plastic which is also low melt temperature material would melt to seal the explosive and would also flow. The melted plastic would push out overflows that are usually provided in these rounds. Because of the plastic neither sudden pressure nor heat ignition inside the round would therefore be as catastrophic. Therefore choice of low melt temperature plastic as the liner material in this invention adds safety to the round. This benefit is favorable consistent with current Insensitive Munition IM requirements in minimizing accidental ammunition explosion due to fire hazards.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the warhead includes a stepped liner that is disposed inside the warhead body. While as explained earlier the liner in the previous embodiment includes a pattern that is created with gaps that allows the explosive to expand therein during detonation the liner of this alternative embodiment includes a step liner that includes either a uniform or an alternating pattern of raised material on a matrix. This alternative embodiment includes a thin layer of material that replaces the gaps of the previous embodiment.

The explosive charge comprises for example LX 14 OCTOL hand packed C 4 or any other solid explosive that can be machined cast or hand packed to fit snugly within the inside of liner .

As further illustrated in more detail in the pattern of the liner could be formed by any known or conventional method such as by stamping or by stereo lithography. The liner could be made of any suitable low melt temperature material such as HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene or Accura SI 40 stereo lithographic material mimicking Nylon 6 6. The pattern includes openings gaps or cutouts collectively referred to herein as gaps that are interposed among a plurality of patterned liner elements . The pattern will be described in greater detail in connection with .

With further reference to upon detonation of the explosive charge of the warhead in the areas of liner cutouts the momentum of the shock wave propagating through the explosive is transmitted directly to the sections of the interior of the warhead body as illustrated by force F . In the case of the sections which are disposed adjacent to the liner elements the detonation wave momentum is transmitted first to the liner elements and then to the interior of the warhead body as illustrated by force F .

The time delay between the moments when the shock waves reach sections and is determined by the differences between the detonation velocity of the explosive and the shock wave propagation speed of the liner material respectively. Since the motion of the section should typically start earlier than that of the section the transitional region between section and is subjected to intense stretching by the force differential F F F F. This generates a high gradient of pressures velocities and strains between sections and acting as stress and strain concentration factors .

As shown in unstable thermoplastic shear adiabatic shear eventually transfers the entire burden of localized strain to a finite number of shear planes leading to the shell break up and formation of fragments. As a result a predetermined pattern of liner cutouts stamps out a pattern of localized transitional regions so as to cause the warhead body to shear and break into fragments with controlled size.

For given choices of materials of explosive and liner the thickness of the liner helps determine the time delay between forces F and F and subsequently the magnitude of the required gradients of stresses strains and strain rates in transitional regions . In a preferred embodiment the thickness of the liner varies between approximately a fraction of a millimeter and several millimeters in order to cause a time delay that varies between approximately a hundred of nanoseconds and two microseconds.

The selectively controlled pattern comprises sections of equal size or alternatively sections ranging in size from a relatively large size to smaller sections. The larger size of the intact non gap sections is selected for more heavily armored targets while the smaller size of intact non gap sections is applicable for lightly armored or soft targets. Consequently the pattern efficiently enables variable and selective lethality of the warhead that can range from maximum lethality for more heavily armored targets to a maximum lethality for lightly armored or soft targets.

In this embodiment the gaps extend throughout the depth of the liner . Since in this embodiment of the invention the material density of sections is significantly lower than that of sections the shock wave pressures transmitted to sections will be significantly less than that of the neighboring sections . Accordingly the material of the warhead body in sections will have higher post shock yield strengths than that of void or air gap buffered sections so as to cause the warhead body to shear and to break along the transition regions .

Referring now to it illustrates various exemplary embodiments of the liner . The liner of is patterned in a checkerboard circumferential longitudinal configuration wherein the orientation of the square shaped gaps is in parallel to the axis of the munition. The gaps and the liner elements are illustrated as being uniform and equal in size. It should be clear that according to another embodiment the gaps or the liner elements could have different sizes. Though the gaps and liner elements are square shaped other shapes are contemplated by the present invention.

The liner of is similarly patterned in a checkerboard configuration as in . However in the configuration is a diagonal configuration wherein the orientation of diamond shaped gaps is at the angle with axis of the munition. The gaps and the liner elements are illustrated as being uniform and equal in size. It should be clear that according to another embodiment the gaps or the liner elements could have different sizes. Though the gaps and liner elements are diamond shaped other shapes are contemplated by the present invention.

The liners of D E and F illustrate variations to the liner patterns of by varying the sizes of the gaps relative to the liner elements .

Also according to another embodiment the liner is comprised of two liners such as with gaps whereas the outer liner can slide between the inner liner and the interior surface of the warhead body in the circumferential direction as to allow a selectable fragmentation pattern with the desired fragment size that can be dialed in by rotation of the outer liner immediately prior to the deployment of the munition.

It is to be understood that the specific embodiments of the invention that have been described are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made to the munition with a controlled fragmentation pattern described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

