---

title: Systems, techniques, and methods for providing location assessments
abstract: Methods and systems for providing location assessments are provided. Example embodiments provide a Location Assessment Provider System, which generates and provides assessments of various characteristics of specified locations. In one embodiment, the Location Assessment Provider System receives a specified location, determines a location assessment for the specified location, generates a visual representation of the determined location assessment, and provides the generated visual representation to a client system. Determining a location assessment may be based on geographic-related information about, or associated with, the specified location, such as the presence and location of geographic-related features associated with the specified location. This abstract is provided to comply with rules requiring an abstract, and it is submitted with the intention that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738422&OS=08738422&RS=08738422
owner: Walk Score Management, LLC
number: 08738422
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080507
---
The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for providing location assessments and in particular to methods and systems for generating assessments for particular locations or areas based on geographic related features associated with those locations.

A number of approaches exist for evaluating measuring and or expressing walkability of a particular region. Walkability may include various concepts such as the quality and or quantity of resources that support pedestrian travel e.g. crosswalks sidewalks etc. conditions that make pedestrian travel appealing and or attractive e.g. availability of parks or other destinations etc. In general a more walkable region may be considered more pedestrian friendly more appealing to pedestrians etc.

In one approach walkability may be measured based on subjective opinions or impressions of pedestrians in a particular neighborhood or community. Such opinions may be collected by for example surveying pedestrians and or residents that use a particular neighborhood community. In some cases such survey results may be quantified so as to provide a numerical measure of walkability for a region. Such a numerical measure of walkability may be compared to a corresponding numerical measure for another neighborhood community. This subjective approach may suffer from various inefficiencies and or inaccuracies such as the time and or cost required to perform surveys the number of pedestrians that need to be surveyed to obtain statistically significant results etc.

In another approach walkability may be measured based on various objective aspects associated with a particular region. For example the topology elements and or physical aspects of a given transportation network e.g. roads sidewalks etc. may be characterized based on qualities that are believed to provide a pedestrian friendly environment such as the connectedness of roads the availability of crosswalks the presence of sidewalks etc. However while such an approach may provide an insight into how easy it is for a pedestrian to walk from one place to another it does not consider whether any appealing destinations for the pedestrian actually exist. In other words even the best transportation network may not be of much use to a pedestrian if there are a lack of worthwhile destinations such as parks schools stores etc.

In another objective approach the number of businesses within a particular region may be tallied. Such an approach provides a measure of the volume or density of potentially appealing pedestrian destinations e.g. shops restaurants etc. in a region. However this approach may provide measures that are skewed in favor of particular locales such as high density urban centers. In addition because such an approach treats all businesses equally results may be skewed by the presence of businesses that are not actually appealing destinations for the typical pedestrian e.g. auto repair shops .

Embodiments described herein provide enhanced computer and network based methods and systems for generating and providing location assessments. Example embodiments provide a Location Assessment Provider System LAPS which generates and provides assessments of specified locations based on geographic related information associated with the specified locations as well as other factors such as user preferences. A LAPS may be used on its own to generate and provide location assessments or may be embedded within or used by another code module or application to provide location assessment functionality. For example in one embodiment the LAPS provides a walkability assessment called a Walk Score which provides a visual indication of features of interest local to and walkable from a specified address. This walkability assessment as described further below may be provided as a network accessible application such as a web page specified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI and displayable via a web browser or may be provided via a server or as a web service and integrated into another perhaps third party application.

The location assessments generated by a LAPS provide indicators of various characteristics that may be associated with a specified location. In some embodiments a LAPS may be operable to assess one or more characteristics of a specified geographic location such as walkability bikeability public transit quality or availability number of nearby business consumer and or recreation destinations safety climate social economic political conditions etc. For example in some embodiments a LAPS provides an assessment that indicates the desirability of a specified location such as a residence in terms of its walkability or bikeability to locations of interest within a particular distance from the location. In other embodiments the LAPS may provide an assessment that indicates desirability of a specified location in terms of safety access to public transit political climate vibrancy popularity and or other characteristics. In addition in some embodiments the LAPS may use multiple characteristics to generate a single location assessment indicative of the multiple characteristics. For example the LAPS may provide a composite assessment such as a neighborhood assessment or a city assessment based on walkability safety and or political conditions.

As mentioned a location assessment is generated relative to a specified location. A location used to serve as a basis for generating a location assessment may be specified by any suitable means including explicitly specified for example using identifying information such as a physical address a latitude longitude specification or an indication on a map. A location may also be implicitly specified for example by deducing a nearest building to an activity or by a user interacting e.g. clicking on selecting and or hovering over a point using an interactive mapping application. Other means of specifying locations relative to some other point or area may also be incorporated into a LAPS such as by allowing a user to drag icons draw areas or perform other operations within an interactive mapping application.

Location assessments may be generated based on various types of information about or associated with the specified geographic location including the existence location category and or other attributes of one or more geographic related features. Geographic related features may be concrete or abstract features associated with a location. Concrete geographic related features e.g. geographic related entities may include human built and or naturally occurring objects such as educational institutions e.g. universities elementary schools etc. businesses e.g. restaurants coffee shops retailers gas stations etc. and parks services e.g. wireless access points outdoor seating etc. transportation elements such as roads e.g. highways streets etc. fixtures e.g. bridges steps etc. and other transportation features e.g. public transit access points pedestrian bike paths and or trails pedestrian only streets bicycle parking presence and or average cycle time of stoplights topography e.g. hills rivers lakes mountains etc. Abstract geographic related features may include measurable or otherwise describable aspects of or associated with a particular geographic location including environmental conditions e.g. temperature rainfall air quality etc. economic indicators e.g. average salary of residents at a location average revenue of businesses at a location etc. social conditions e.g. crime statistics and or events political affiliations religious affiliations cultural ethnic distributions etc. etc. In addition location assessments may be generated with respect to virtual geographic locations such as those provided by virtual reality environments game environments e.g. multiplayer role playing games social networks etc.

According to the example application illustrated by a user specifies a location as a street address via the user input control and in response the LAPS provides the illustrated location assessment. The walkability score is a measure on a scale of 0 to 100 of the walkability of an area surrounding the provided street address hence it is referred to as a Walk Score. The walkability scale presents the walkability score as a position on a scale with higher walkability scores being presented further rightwards on the scale. In some embodiments the walkability scale may also make use of colors such as by using a spectrum of colors from red e.g. reflecting low walkability scores to green e.g. reflecting high walkability scores . In other embodiments shades of gray or other techniques may be utilized to provide a user with an intuitive understanding of the determined walkability score.

In the example of the walkability score is determined based on the sum of the distances between the specified address and each of multiple geographic related entities situated within a one mile radius of the specified street address. In order to compute a walkability score the LAPS evaluates the multiple geographic related entities relative to a set of categories used to group the various geographic related entities that could be present. The LAPS determines the multiple geographic related entities by identifying e.g. searching for for each of multiple categories of geographic related entities the single geographic related entity that is a member of the category that is situated within the one mile radius of the specified street address and that is nearest to the specified street address as compared to other geographic related entities of the same category. For any given category if no geographic related entity exists that is within the one mile radius then that category provides no zero contribution to the determined walkability score. In other embodiments if no geographic related entity exists for a particular category then that category may provide a negative contribution to the determined walkability score or a proportionally smaller perhaps even infinitesimal contribution to the determined walkability score. Other embodiments also may use other distance criteria other algorithms for determining the measure of walkability etc.

In the categories of geographic related entities that are used by the LAPS are shown in the local feature directory . In particular each category reflects a type of geographic related entity that may be a destination of interest to a pedestrian. In the illustrated example the categories include grocery stores restaurants coffee shops bars movie theaters schools parks libraries bookstores fitness centers drug stores hardware stores and clothing music stores. A particular geographic related entity such as a store may belong to more than one category. For example a particular grocery store may include a deli cafeteria and a coffee counter and as such may belong to the grocery store category the coffee shop category and the restaurant category.

For each category in the local feature directory information e.g. name address telephone number distance from the specified street address etc. about the particular geographic related entity that was used as a basis for the determined walkability score is presented. For example for the category of grocery stores the name Durn Good Grocery and distance 0.17 miles of a particular grocery store is displayed. In other embodiments other categories may be used or the categories may be user selectable so as to provide a walkability score that is customizable based on personal preferences of the user.

In addition indications of the multiple geographic related entities used by the LAPS to determine the displayed walkability assessment are provided using symbols such as icon placed on the walkability map . For example icon is a grocery cart icon indicating the presence and location of a grocery store in this case the grocery store nearest the specified address. The map also includes icons that indicate the presence and location of other geographic related entities that were not used as a basis for determining the determined walkability score but are nonetheless located within the one mile radius from the specified street address. In other embodiments only the geographic related entities that were used as a basis for determining the walkability score may be displayed. Other combinations are also possible including those defined by user preferences.

In some embodiments various of the illustrated user interface features may be user selectable so that a user can interact with the user interface element to invoke additional functionality of the LAPS. For example a user may be able to select e.g. click on and or hover over with a pointing device any of the icons in order to obtain additional information about the geographic related entity represented by the selected icon such as hours of operation contact information e.g. street address telephone number etc. advertisements e.g. daily specials menus etc. reviews and or ratings e.g. provided by users of the LAPS and or by a third party information provider such as a social peer review Web site etc. In addition a user may be able to select any of the categories in the feature directory to obtain indications of additional geographic related entities in that category.

Although at least some of the embodiments described herein are discussed primarily with respect to determining walkability assessments for specified locations other embodiments may determine location assessments for other characteristics associated with specified locations or for an area that is inclusive of a location. For example at least some of the described techniques may be utilized to determine bikeability scores that may be used by bicycle users to understand the quality and or availability of bicycle travel at or near a given location. Generating a bikeability score may take a different set of geographic related features into account. For example generating a bikeability score may additionally be based on features such as topography e.g. hills weather e.g. average rainfall transportation features e.g. availability of bike paths etc. Two other example location assessments safety assessments and political assessments are described with reference to below. Other types of location assessments are contemplated including runnability e.g. how attractive a given location is for running jogging vibrancy e.g. how popular and or dynamic the social atmosphere is around a given location etc. Further other areas for location assessments are contemplated such as an aggregate sum average etc. location assessment of a larger location than a point location for example a zip code area a neighborhood a city a state a country region etc.

Furthermore although walkability assessments are typically described with reference to the consideration of geographic related entities e.g. concrete geographic related features some embodiments may take abstract geographic related features e.g. weather conditions topography crime statistics etc. into account as well. In addition because the presence or absence of other pedestrians may itself impact a person s subjective impression of walkability the LAPS may consider such information as another category of geographic related feature such as by utilizing census data which provides information about the modes of transport typically used by persons living at various locations e.g. whether people in a given census tract typically walk bike or talk public transit to work .

In addition although some of the described embodiments determine location assessments with respect to a given street address locations may be specified in other ways. For example locations may be specified by partial physical addresses e.g. street intersections block addresses latitude and longitude coordinates based on one or more user inputs e.g. indicating a location on a map or via some other coordinate system. In addition locations are not limited to point locations and can equivalently be areas such as neighborhoods cities regions e.g. western Washington state states countries etc. Also some embodiments may determine location assessments for multiple locations specified in bulk or batch form. Other permutations and combinations are contemplated.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as data formats network protocols and code sequences etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described techniques. The embodiments described also can be practiced without some of the specific details described herein or with other specific details such as changes with respect to the ordering of the code flow different code flows etc. Thus the scope of the techniques and or functions described are not limited by the particular order selection or decomposition of steps described with reference to any particular routine and or system.

The data management engine manages geographic related information for use by other modules of the LAPS . Managing geographic related information may include obtaining such information from the one or more data sources and storing such obtained information in the LAPS data repository for access by other modules of the LAPS . Managing geographic related information may also include determining the quality of e.g. detecting errors in obtained information rectifying e.g. correcting adjusting etc. erroneous information and or otherwise manipulating e.g. formatting translating etc. obtained information such that information obtained from distinct data sources may be used or processed in a uniform and consistent manner. In some embodiments erroneous information may be identified and or corrected in various ways such as based on user provided feedback. While in the examples illustrated the data management engine pre fetches geographic related information for storage in the LAPS data repository in other embodiments the data management engine may also or alternatively provide a uniform interface with which other modules of the LAPS may obtain on demand information from at least some of the one or more data sources .

The user interaction engine facilitates user access to and customization of various features of the LAPS . In particular a user utilizing the client system may interact with the LAPS via the user interaction engine to provide street addresses or other indications of locations in order to obtain location assessments for those locations. For example a request for an assessment of a specified location may be generated by the client system e.g. by a Web browser executing on the client system and communicated to the user interaction engine . The user interaction engine then forwards the received request to the assessment engine . In response the assessment engine generates an assessment of the specified location and provides it to the client system either directly via the user interaction engine or some other module. The user interaction engine may also provide user management functionality such as the establishment and management of user accounts that may be used to store user customizations preferences e.g. display preferences indications of frequently assessed locations etc. and or other user related information e.g. payment information when access to the LAPS is provided in exchange for payment . Such user related information may be stored by the user interaction engine in the LAPS data repository for access by other modules.

The assessment engine generates location assessments in response to provided indications of locations. As noted above the assessment engine may receive indications of locations from the user interaction engine . It may also receive indications from other sources such as directly from client systems the LAPS API and or third party information providers . The assessment engine may utilize services provided by other illustrated modules such as the presentation engine the data management engine etc. For example the assessment engine may generate assessments based on information stored in the LAPS data repository e.g. information about geographic related features associated with the indicated location and or information received from the one or more data sources e.g. searching for and obtaining information about geographic related features from a search engine or other network accessible information provider .

The presentation engine generates representations of location assessments provided by the assessment engine . Such representations may include visual representations such as graphical maps of a specified area that are possibly augmented in various ways e.g. with one or more icons indicating geographic related entities color coding etc. scores e.g. a number graphical scales textual descriptions e.g. a text describing a particular assessment etc. etc. The generated representations may also be in non visual forms such as audio messages for the visually impaired describing an assessment that may be automatically generated via text to speech translation or other mechanisms. The presentation engine may also generate representations of location assessments based on user preferences stored in the LAPS data repository so as to provide customized views that are specialized for particular client systems e.g. PDAs cell phones etc. and or user preferences.

The LAPS API provides programmatic access to various features and or functions of the LAPS . For example the LAPS API may provide a programmatic interface by which remote computing systems may programmatically interact with the LAPS such as by allowing the third party information provider system to access one or more services provided by the assessment engine in order to provide location assessments in the context of some other application. In one embodiment the third party information provider system may include a Web site and or other software application that provides real estate services to client systems . The third party information provider system may incorporate e.g. embed assessments of locations e.g. listed properties and their surrounding areas along with other information about those locations such as property details asking prices etc. In addition the API may also provide programmatic interface to a client application utilized by a user to interact with the LAPS in various ways. For example the functionality exposed via the API may support the development of custom applications operating on portable client devices e.g. smart phones PDAs pagers etc. custom hardware e.g. kiosk based systems etc. Furthermore the API may support the bulk acquisition of assessments for large numbers of distinct locations possibly in exchange for payment.

The client system may include various types of computing systems. For example in one embodiment the client system may be a desktop computing system executing a Web browser that may be used by a user to interactively obtain information from the LAPS . In another embodiment the client system may be a mobile computing device e.g. a mobile phone PDA etc. having location aware functionality e.g. a GPS system . In such a case the client system may either automatically e.g. on a periodic basis at a specific time upon the occurrence of a particular event etc. or in response to a user request e.g. a button press provide an indication of a current location of the client system to the LAPS in order to obtain an assessment for the current location and to display such to the user. For example a GPS capable mobile phone may periodically e.g. every minute provide an indication of the current location of the mobile phone to the LAPS in order to obtain and display a continuously updated current location assessment to a user who is traveling about a city or other area. As noted above location assessments need not necessarily be visually presented. For example a mobile phone client device may beep or vibrate when a particular location assessment crosses some predetermined or selected threshold. For example in the context of safety assessments a mobile phone may vibrate when a safety assessment of the current location of the mobile phone drops below a particular threshold in order to notify a user that they are entering a potentially unsafe neighborhood.

More specifically in step the LAPS receives an indication of a location such as a street address. In step the LAPS determines one or more geographic related features of interest associated with the indicated location. As noted geographic related features may be concrete e.g. shops schools roads etc. or abstract e.g. average weather conditions crime statistics etc. . The one or more geographic related features of interest may be determined in various ways such as by selecting one or more geographic related features that are of a particular category or categories and or that are nearest by some distance function e.g. straight line distance to the indicated location. The actual category or categories used may be based at least in part on the particular application. For example in the context of walkability assessments various types of businesses e.g. restaurants retailers etc. educational institutions e.g. schools universities and public spaces e.g. parks may be considered. In the context of safety assessments crime statistics and health and safety services e.g. fire stations police stations may be considered. In addition the category or categories used may be user selectable e.g. via user preferences and or based on other factors such as regional national differences e.g. in some countries exercise facilities such as indoor gyms may typically not be considered interesting destinations . In some embodiments determining the one or more geographic related features may also include filtering or otherwise excluding those geographic related features that are not within a particular area associated with the indicated location e.g. as defined by a fixed radius from the location the boundaries of the zip code of the location etc. .

In step the LAPS applies a scoring function to the determined one or more geographic related features. Such a scoring function may determine an overall score by summing a weighted contribution from each of the determined geographic related features. For example the scoring function may sum the inverse of the distances measured between the indicated location and each of the determined geographic related features. In some cases such as when some of the geographic related features do not have an associated point location e.g. average weather conditions aggregate crime statistics etc. the geographic related features may be weighted in a manner based on other factors such as seriousness of crime severity of weather etc. In general distinct categories of geographic related features may contribute to the scoring function differently based on user preferences feedback e.g. a particular user may decide that a park represents a more desirable destination than a shoe store cultural social regional norms e.g. particular target users may value bars and nightclubs more highly than childcare facilities purpose of location assessment use etc. In addition specific geographic related features e.g. a particular bar or restaurant may contribute to the scoring function based on information about the specific geographic related feature e.g. a restaurant review for a particular restaurant may contribute positively negatively or otherwise enhance or diminish the result of the scoring function . Also for some uses specific geographic related features e.g. a large park in a low population area may be deemed to contribute little if nothing to an aggregate value e.g. for a composite city or region score so as to not disproportionately skew results.

In step the LAPS determines a location assessment based at least in part on the result or results of the applied scoring function. For example determining the location assessment may include generating a visual representation of the assessment. Such a visual representation may include numerical representations e.g. the score provided by the scoring function verbal descriptions e.g. Great Good Average Poor etc. letter grades e.g. A B C etc. symbolic representations e.g. a star rating system where a greater number of stars reflects a better or higher assessment graphic iconic symbolic representations e.g. a map with icons representing nearby geographic related features etc. .

In step the LAPS provides the determined location assessment. Providing the determined location assessment may include providing e.g. communicating transmitting sending forwarding etc. the location assessment to a client application such as a Web browser executing on a client system .

The area is defined by a one mile radius around the location . The one mile radius may be appropriate in the context of providing walkability assessments because one mile is a distance that an average user can walk in a reasonable time. However in other embodiments other units e.g. city blocks metric units etc. shapes e.g. rectangular areas or polygons and or distances may be used possibly based on the target country user and or application. For example specific users such as the injured and or impaired may prefer a shorter distance. Alternatively a longer distance such as three to five miles may be appropriate for other contexts such as providing bikeability assessments because an average bike rider can typically cover more ground than a walker could in the same amount of time.

In the example of only geographic related entities situated within the area are considered for purposes of generating the walkability assessment. Geographic related entities are situated within the area and therefore may be considered for purposes of generating the walkability assessment. On the other hand geographic related entities are not situated within the area and are therefore excluded from consideration. In other examples geographic related entities that are partially situated within the area may be considered or excluded from consideration. For example property data e.g. parcel boundaries zoning data land use boundaries etc. may be utilized to obtain more precise estimates of the actual geographic bounds of the various geographic related entities so as to not falsely exclude a geographic related entity having a point based street address that is outside of the area but that sits on a land parcel that overlaps the area . As another example a playground feature located in a larger park that is partially situated within the area may be excluded because the feature of interest is out of range.

In addition the illustrated walkability assessment is category based such that only geographic related entities of particular categories are considered for purposes of generating the walkability assessment. The categories used in the example of include parks schools book stores grocery stores and drug stores but do not include gas stations because such geographic related entities typically may not be appealing destinations for pedestrians albeit in some scenarios they may be . Therefore because geographic related entity is a gas station it is not considered for purposes of generating the location assessment as illustrated by the lack of an arrow connecting the location to the gas station

Furthermore the illustrated walkability assessment utilizes only the geographic related entity of each category that is closest to the location . For example there are two parks and located within the area having respective distances from the location of 0.8 miles and 0.4 miles. Because park is the more distant of the two parks it is not considered for purposes of the generating the assessment as illustrated by a dashed line connecting the location to the park . By considering only one geographic related entity per category the illustrated example embodiment provides an assessment that favors geographic related entity diversity e.g. balance completeness etc. over geographic related entity density e.g. sheer numbers of geographic related entities . For example an area that includes a compact village having just one or two geographic related entities of each category will score the same or approximately the same as an area that includes dense urban development having dozens of geographic related entities of each category. In addition the illustrated technique controls for geographic related entity category imbalances. For example a given area such as a university college district inhabited by many young people may include many bars and restaurants but few geographic related entities of other categories such as parks or child care facilities. Using the described technique such an area will accordingly score lower than an area having a more balanced e.g. diverse assortment of geographic related entities. In some embodiments the diversity of geographic related features may be analyzed without regard to the distances between an indicated location and those features. For example the diversity or completeness of a business district may be analyzed to determine whether that business district offers a wide or narrow range of different types of stores and or services. In other embodiments diversity density and or other statistical properties of the considered geographic related entities may be utilized in other ways such as by considering every geographic related entity rather than just the nearest one in a given region and then adjusting a resulting score based on a measured level of diversity or other statistical property e.g. standard deviation variance etc. of the considered entities. In some embodiments the contributions of these geographic related entities may be further weighted such as by other assessments e.g. safety political climate etc. or by other factors e.g. population density .

Given the exclusions described above the illustrated assessment is based on geographic related entities and in particular on the distances between the location and the geographic related entities . In the illustrated embodiment a score is calculated that is the sum of the multiplicative inverses i.e. 1 distance of the distances between the location and each of the geographic related entities . By using the multiplicative inverse of the distance the relative contribution of each distance is weighted such that it decays as a function of the distance from the location. In the example of the combined score is the sum of the multiplicative inverses of the distance between the location and each of the school 1 0.6 the book store 1 0.8 the park 1 0.4 the grocery store 1 0.5 and the drug store 1 0.9 yielding a total of approximately 8.5 1 0.6 1 0.8 1 0.4 1 0.5 1 0.9 8.528 .

In other embodiments scores may be calculated in other ways and or based on other factors. For example individual distances may be weighted in other ways such as more or less strongly based on the distance and or other factors e.g. the type of geographic related feature its category . Also these weightings may be skewed intentionally based upon user and or application preferences. In addition scores may be normalized and or scaled such that every score falls within a predetermined range e.g. zero to 100 zero to 1.0 etc. . In addition scores may be calculated using various kinds of scoring functions including various types of step functions e.g. geographic related features located outside of an area of interest contribute zero while those located inside of the area of interest contribute one or some other constant non zero value weighted functions that determine scores based upon population etc. Other example scoring functions are discussed with reference to below. Furthermore although the example of only considers a single geographic related entity of each category some other number of geographic related entities per category may be considered e.g. all geographic related entities three geographic related entities etc. or for some categories but not others etc.

In further embodiments other categories of geographic related features may be utilized instead of or in addition to the described categories. For example other categories may include public transit access points e.g. train stations bus stops subway stops etc. topography weather social statistics etc. In some cases current geographic related information may be utilized to provide instantaneous assessments. For example the current and or predicted weather and or atmospheric conditions may be considered so as to provide current and or predicted assessments rather than average case assessments. In such situations a walkability score for a particular location may vary based on current predicted conditions. Such a technique may be used for example to provide those having respiratory diseases with warnings to avoid walking on days with particularly poor air quality. In addition other types of geographic related features may be examined to provide a predictive location assessment. For example in some embodiments hypothetical geographic related features may be designated e.g. by user selection to determine an effect on a walkability or other type of location assessment.

In some embodiments the visual representation of may include additional information. For example preferred walking routes between the location indicated by the location icon and one or more of the geographic related entity icons e.g. those routes that follow roads having sidewalks roads that have minimal vehicle traffic etc. may be illustrated on the map .

More specifically the screen display provides listing information for a for sale residence at a particular location as well as tile that includes a walkability assessment for the location . The tile may be a module component or other code segment provided by the LAPS of for incorporation within third party applications such that a Web site or other application developer can include the tile within their application in order to provide enhanced functionality to their users. In some embodiments the third party may obtain the tile in exchange for a payment e.g. as a per use payment revenue sharing etc. or other consideration to an operator or other party associated with the LAPS.

Although real estate services may be one target application for providing and utilizing location assessments the described concepts and techniques may be utilized in other contexts as well. For example a travel information Web site may utilize at least some of the described techniques to rank or rate various destinations based on assessed walkability or other characteristics. Furthermore urban planners may utilize at least some of the described techniques to obtain information about characteristics of neighborhoods within a given urban area such that appropriate attention may be given to improving modifying or otherwise developing particular neighborhoods to maximize some characteristics.

In addition the described techniques may be employed in the context of a design or modeling tool that can be used to predict or otherwise understand e.g. simulate hypothesis test etc. how particular location characteristics e.g. walkability would change if particular changes e.g. to a neighborhood were made such as the addition or removal of pedestrian crosswalks sidewalks retail units parkland green spaces etc. For example in some embodiments a user may add e.g. via an interactive user interface a hypothetical geographic related feature e.g. a retail establishment a restaurant a school a park a bus stop etc. to multiple candidate locations modeled by the LAPS and then compare the multiple candidate locations to one another on the basis of determined location assessments that take the added hypothetical feature into account. Such comparisons may then be used to determine a best or more advantageous location for making a particular improvement and or implementing a particular development proposal. In other embodiments the LAPS be configured to automatically determine what type and location of geographic related feature would if added to or near a particular location result in the greatest increase in assessment for the location. Other applications are also possible. Generally the concepts and techniques described herein are applicable to any environment that could take advantage of a location assessment.

In addition other types of visual representations are contemplated. For example multiple location assessments may be aggregated on a single map so as to provide an regional comparative view of location assessments. In particular block by block or some other unit of area such as zip code census tract neighborhood latitude and longitude intervals list range of addresses etc. location assessments may be plotted on a city map with each location assessment being represented by a color on a color scale e.g. higher assessments being green and lower assessments being in red so as to provide a heat map that allows a user to quickly determine the best and or worst locations within the city. Example heat maps are described with respect to below. In addition multiple location assessments that are presented as aggregations e.g. an average walkscore for a city neighborhood etc. based upon individual walkscores of one or more of its components computed by a variety of techniques may be compared and ranked. Aggregate walkscores are described below with respect to below.

Also although certain terms are used primarily herein one skilled in the art will recognize that other terms could be used interchangeably to yield equivalent embodiments and examples. For example it is well known that equivalent terms in the geography field in the urban planning field and or in other similar fields could be substituted for such terms as geographic related features location area category entity etc. For example the term area may be used interchangeably with shape and or region. In addition category may be used interchangeably with type. Likewise geographic related feature may be used interchangeably with geographic aspect geographic attribute and or geographic element. Furthermore a mobility assessment may include any type of location assessment that focuses at least in part on the quality of a particular location with respect to one or more modes of transport e.g. walking bicycling driving using public transit etc. In addition terms may have alternate spellings which may or may not be explicitly mentioned and one skilled in the art will recognize that all such variations of terms are intended to be included.

In the embodiment shown computer system comprises a computer memory memory a display a Central Processing Unit CPU and Input Output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display etc. and network connections . The LAPS is shown residing in memory . The components of the LAPS preferably execute on one or more CPUs and manage the generation and provision of location assessments as described with reference to . Other code or programs and potentially other data repositories such as data repository also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more CPUs .

In a typical embodiment the LAPS includes a data management engine an assessment engine a presentation engine a user interaction engine a LAPS API and a LAPS data repository . The LAPS and blocks are implementations of the LAPS and modules respectively as described with respect to . Other and or different modules may be implemented. In addition the LAPS may interact via a network with data sources one or more client computing systems and or one or more third party information provider systems .

In an example embodiment components modules of the LAPS are implemented using standard programming techniques. However a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Smalltalk functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme etc. procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula scripting e.g. PHP Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript etc. etc.

The embodiments described above use well known or proprietary synchronous or asynchronous client sever computing techniques. However the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques as well for example as an executable running on a single CPU computer system or alternately decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques known in the art including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more CPUs. Some embodiments are illustrated as executing concurrently and asynchronously and communicating using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported by a LAPS implementation.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the LAPS e.g. in the data repository can be available by standard means such as through C C C and Java APIs libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The data repository may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other method known in the art for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementation using distributed computing techniques.

Also the example LAPS may be implemented in a distributed environment comprising multiple even heterogeneous computer systems and networks. For example in one embodiment the modules and the data repository are all located in physically different computer systems. In another embodiment various modules of the LAPS are hosted each on a separate server machine and may be remotely located from the tables which are stored in the data repository . Also one or more of the modules may themselves be distributed pooled or otherwise grouped such as for load balancing reliability or security reasons. Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques of described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP etc. . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions of a LAPS.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the LAPS may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The system components and data structures may also be transmitted via generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

In steps the routine performs a loop in which it repeatedly receives and processes a request for an assessment of a specified location. More specifically the routine begins at step where it receives an indication of a location. The location may be indicated in various ways such as by a street address zip code city name coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude neighborhood county etc.

In step the routine determines an area that includes the indicated location. Different embodiments may determine different types and or shapes of areas such as circles rectangles arbitrary polygons etc. In some cases the area may be arbitrarily determined for example as a fixed radius circle having the indicated location at its center. In other cases the area may be determined with reference to different types of boundaries including natural physical boundaries e.g. rivers hills etc. human constructed physical boundaries e.g. expressways walls canals etc. political boundaries e.g. census tracts neighborhoods cities counties regions states etc. . In addition the area may be determined based at least in part on user preferences such as when a user specifies use of a preferred radius based on the user s ability and or desire to walk greater or lesser distances.

In step the routine identifies a plurality of categories of geographic related entities. The plurality of categories may include categories that are related to or are typically of interest to users wishing to obtain an assessment of a particular characteristic of the indicated location e.g. walkability bikeability etc. . The particular categories used may be determined in various ways such as by conducting user surveys based on user feedback based on expressed user preferences etc. Accordingly in some embodiments the categories used may be fixed and predetermined whereas in other embodiments the categories may be dynamically identified based on information about a particular user specified by a user via a user interface etc. The categories used may be obtained for example from the LAPS data repository and or indications received as part of an initial request e.g. from a Web browser operated by a user .

In step the routine invokes a DetermineScore routine to obtain an assessment score for the indicated location the determined area and the identified categories. An example DetermineScore routine is described with reference to below.

In step the routine provides a walkability or other assessment based at least in part on the determined score. For example a representation e.g. an HTML file may be generated that includes an indication of the score a graphical scale and a map such as was described with reference to .

In step the routine determines whether to continue and if so continues to step to await further requests else ends. The routine may determine not to continue under various circumstances such as by receiving a shutdown instruction e.g. a request signal etc. .

In step the routine initializes a total score variable. In steps the routine performs a loop in which it processes each of the designated categories of geographic related entities in order to determine a candidate geographic related entity of each category and to accumulate the total score based on the determined geographic related entities. More specifically in step the routine determines whether there are more categories to process and if so proceeds to step else returns the accumulated total score.

In step the routine assigns a current category variable to be the next category of the designated categories for use by one or more of the following steps. In step the routine assigns an entities variable to be one or more geographic related entities of the current category that are at least partially situated within the designated area. Determining the appropriate geographic related entities may include may include finding all of the geographic related entities of the current category that have locations that are within that overlap or that adjoin the designated area. For example if the current category is Restaurants the routine may find six restaurants having street addresses located within the designated area. In one embodiment the geographic related entities are at least initially discovered using standard search queries to available third party search engines. For example a text based query such as restaurants 111 Elm Street Anytown provided to a search engine may be used to obtain a list of restaurants near 111 Elm Street in the city of Anytown. Depending on the implementation the obtained list may be ordered based on proximity to the specified address and may include additional information about each of the restaurants e.g. a street address telephone number menu information etc. . Depending upon the particular location assessment other methods for discovering the geographic related features may be employed.

In step the routine assigns an entity variable to be the one entity of the entities that is closest to the designated location. For example if the entities determined in step above includes six restaurants the routine will select the restaurant that is the closest to the indicated location. Various distance measures may be used including straight line distance Manhattan distance i.e. the distance if a grid like path were followed between two points as may be obtained by summing the horizontal and vertical distances traveled on a grid between two points map distance i.e. the distance possibly optimal based on a particular cost function if actual routes on a map were followed between two points driving distance i.e. the distance that would be traveled by a car or other vehicle that may travel only on roads walking distance i.e. the distance that would be traveled by a pedestrian using some combination of roads and walkways etc. The distance measure may also take into account other costs associated with travel such as hills speed limits route type e.g. city street or freeway current average and or predicted conditions e.g. weather traffic etc. etc.

In step the routine assigns a distance variable to be the distance between the entity and the specified location. In some embodiments this distance will have already been calculated as part of step above during the course of identifying the closest geographic related entity to the location and accordingly may be utilized here directly without recalculation. In other embodiments a distance according to a desired unit may be calculated.

In step the routine assigns the score variable to be the sum of the current score plus the result of a weight function applied to the determined distance between the geographic related entity and the location. Various types of weight functions may be utilized as illustrated in the Table 1 below. It will be appreciated that other types of functions may be used in other embodiments. After step the routine returns to the beginning of the loop in step .

After the completion of the loop of steps the routine returns the accumulated score such as to the assessment generator routine described with reference to above. In addition prior to returning the accumulated score the routine may optionally scale or normalize the accumulated score such that the returned score is between two constant values such as zero and one zero and 100 etc.

Although the routines of perform various area based operations such as determining an area and selecting only entities within the area other embodiments may not consider or process areas in such a manner. For example in step of the routine obtains a collection of geographic related entities of a particular category that are situated within the specified area. In other embodiments the routine may simply obtain e.g. from a search engine a collection of all entities of a particular category that are near the specified location and order the collection based on distance from the specified location. In such a case the routine may simply take the first if one exists entity from the ordered collection and need not perform the operation of step where it searches for the entity having the minimum distance from the specified location. Such an approach may result in the consideration of entities that are outside of an area of interest e.g. a one mile radius from the specified location but the impact of such entities may be implicitly controlled e.g. totally eliminated or made negligible via the choice of the weighting function. For example a weighting function whose output approaches or equals zero for any distance that is greater than one mile will minimize or eliminate the impact of entities that lie outside of a one mile radius area of interest. Other variations for example those that account for partially included entities based upon user preference may also be accommodated.

The routine begins at step where it receives an indication of a location. The location may be indicated in various ways such as by a street address zip code city name coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude etc.

In step the routine determines a plurality of crimes that have occurred within a determined area. As discussed above areas may be determined in various ways. In one example the area is a circle having a one mile radius surrounding the indicated location. The crimes that have occurred within the determined area may be determined with reference to various data sources such as statistics provided by law enforcement agencies for various jurisdictions e.g. Federal state county city etc. . In some embodiments the routine may filter or otherwise exclude crimes that have occurred outside of a particular time period. For example the routine may only consider crimes that have occurred in the last year. Such data may be made available through third parties in near real time or stored for example in the LAPS data repository of .

In step the routine determines a total score that is the result of a scoring function applied to the determined crimes. In this example embodiment the scoring function weights each crime according to the distance of the crime from the indicated location as follows 

In the above equation distance is a function that calculates the straight line distance between the location and a given crime and weight is a function such one of those discussed with reference to above. In this example a step function is used that assigns four points to each crime occurring within 0.25 miles of the location 1.35 points to each crime occurring within 0.5 miles of the location 0.8 points to each crime occurring within 0.75 miles of the location and 0.58 points to each crime occurring within 1.0 miles of the location. Such a weight function places greater emphasis on crimes occurring closer to the location. In addition the illustrated weighting function for geographically uniform distributions of crimes results in scores that are equal to the total number of crimes in the area of the distribution. Other embodiments may of course utilize other weighting schemes functions. For example other embodiments may incorporate the seriousness and or type of crime e.g. felony vs. misdemeanor violent crime vs. property crime etc. .

For illustrative purposes Table 2 below shows two example crime distributions for 260 crimes occurring within the determined area.

Distribution A represents a geographically uniform distribution of 260 crimes. In a geographically uniform distribution the total number of crimes will increase as distance from the location increases because at such distances correspondingly larger areas are considered. This is illustrated by for example the fact that there are three times as many crimes between 0.25 and 0.5 miles as there are between 0.0 and 0.25 miles because the area between 0.25 and 0.5 miles is three times as large as the area between 0.0 and 0.25 miles. The weighted total for Distribution A is 261 as expressed by 16 4.0 48 1.35 82 0.8 114 0.58 261.

Distribution B represents a geographically non uniform distribution of 260 crimes in which relatively more crimes as compared to the uniform Distribution A occur closer to the location e.g. within 0.25 miles of the location . The weighted total for Distribution B is 340 as expressed by 30 4.0 90 1.35 80 0.8 60 0.58 340. The higher score resulting from Distribution B than that of Distribution A reflects the emphasis given by the described scoring function to crimes that occur more closely to the indicated location.

In step the routine optionally normalizes and or scales the total score determined in step . In one embodiment a crime score may be expressed as a percentage of a baseline crime index. For example a baseline index of the number of crimes per unit area may be calculated by dividing the national number of crimes per 100 000 persons e.g. obtained from the Federal Bureau of Investigation by 100 000 and then multiplying the resulting quantity by the number of persons living in the indicated area e.g. obtained by reference to census data estimated based on city population divided by city square miles etc. . The crime score may then be expressed as a percentage of the determined score to the baseline index. For example if the baseline index is 260 then the percentage of Distribution A is 100 i.e. 260 260 100 while the percentage of Distribution B is 131 i.e. 340 260 100 . Note that in the illustrated embodiment the weighting function is configured so that a uniform distribution of crimes such as Distribution A will result in a score that is equal or approximately equal to a baseline crime index such that additional scaling normalizing is not necessary when determining a percentage as described above. In other embodiments such as where a different weighting function is utilized the determined score may be normalized to a baseline index prior to determining a percentage.

In addition such a percentage of baseline index may be converted to a scale of 0 to 100 that expresses a level of safety such that a higher number of points reflects a generally safer location fewer crimes and or crimes occurring further away from the location . For example a distribution having no crimes 0 of the baseline index may be expressed as 100 points a distribution that scores 100 of the baseline index e.g. Distribution A above may be expressed as 50 points and a distribution that scores equal to or greater than 1000 of the baseline index may be assigned zero points. Various types of functions may be utilized for such a conversion including a step function an exponential function etc. In some embodiments the determined score of step may be directly converted to a point scale without first determining a percentage of baseline index.

In step the routine provides a safety assessment based at least in part on the determined score. For example a representation e.g. an HTML file may be generated that includes an indication of the score a graphical scale and a map such as was described with reference to . The provided safety assessment may also include symbols that indicate the actual location and or type of crimes if such data is available may be color coded or use another indication of crimes.

The routine begins at step where it receives an indication of a location. The location may be indicated in various ways such as by a street address zip code city name coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude etc.

In step the routine determines a plurality of political contributions that have been made within a determined area. In this example the determined area is a one mile square surrounding the indicated location. The contributions that have been made within the determined area may be determined with reference to one or more data sources such as data provided by the Federal Elections Commission or various state or local electoral agencies. In some embodiments the routine may aggregate data from multiple data sources such as to combine two or more federal state and or local data sources. In addition the routine may utilize data related to contributions made within a particular time period e.g. the last four years and or election cycle e.g. a presidential primary campaign . Such data may be stored remotely or locally for example in the data sources or the LAPS data repository of .

In step the routine categorizes the contributions into a plurality of categories based at least in part on political party e.g. Democratic Republican Green Libertarian etc. . In some cases a contribution may have been made directly to a particular political party and as such may be directly assigned to the corresponding category. In other cases a contribution may have been made to a candidate or other entity e.g. political action committee affiliated with a particular political party and as such may be assigned to the category corresponding to the affiliated political party. In addition in some embodiments contributions to minor political parties e.g. political parties receiving fewer than a threshold number percentage or amount of contributions may be consolidated into a single catch all category e.g. Other Parties .

In step the routine determines a category share for each category. In the illustrated example the category share for a given category may be determined as follows share category contributions 

In the above equation category is the number of contributions in a given category e.g. the number of contributions to the Democratic Party and or candidates running for the Democratic Party and contributions is the total number of contributions. Accordingly sharerepresents the fraction of the total number of contributions given to party i.

In step the routine provides a political assessment based at least in part on the determined category shares. In the illustrated embodiment providing a political assessment includes generating a visual representation e.g. bar chart bar chart histogram etc. of the category shares determined in step . Such a visual representation may be interactive in that it may respond to inputs received from a user such as by providing additional information about contributions made to a selected party. below illustrate example visual representations of political assessments.

Although the categorization of contributions has been described above as being based on political party affiliation other embodiments may base the categorization of contributions on other characteristics such as positions taken on particular issues by candidates and or parties. For example contributions may be categorized based on stances taken by politicians with respect to political issues such as taxation military spending environmental protection abortion rights gun control etc. Such stances may be determined with respect to various data sources such as voting records polling data etc.

In addition although the determination of political assessments has been described above as being based on the number of contributions made to various parties other embodiments may in addition or instead weight the contributions based on one or more other factors. For example contributions may be weighted by size e.g. amount of money given and or location e.g. distance from the indicated location .

In the illustrated example a user may specify via the user input control a location as a street address city and or zip code. In response the LAPS may generate and provide the heat map and a legend for interpreting the heat map. Optionally the representation may present an indicator not shown of a specific measure associated with one or more of the multiple location assessments that are in closest proximity to the specified location for example a designated score reflecting a location assessment of a 1 mile radius area surrounding the specified location. The heat map may be generated by automatically performing location assessments on multiple locations around the specified location in order to determine for example a score e.g. a walk score for each of the multiple locations. The multiple locations around the specified location may be determined in various ways such as by determining a latitude longitude grid around the specified location by selecting a number of the nearest city blocks around the specified location e.g. by street intersection etc. Each location may then be associated with a color that corresponds the determined score for that location such as red for scores between 100 and 90 pink for scores between 90 and 80 violet for scores between 80 and 65 blue for scores between 65 and 35 aqua for scores between 35 and 20 and green for scores between 20 and 0. Other color coding schemes are contemplated as is the use of a grey scale. Then for each location its associated color may be plotted on the map in order to provide a user with an aggregated view of location assessments for various locations in the vicinity of the specified location. In addition patterns or other markings may be used instead of color or to supplement the color coding. Other combinations are possible.

Various other embodiments and or combinations of the above described techniques are contemplated. For example in one embodiment a generated location assessment may include score without any other information about a given location such as a map. In another embodiment a generated location assessment may include a map or other visual representation without an associated score. Furthermore some embodiments may not take the distances between a given location and various features into account and instead consider at least some of the geographic related features that are located within a particular area. In such cases the considered geographic related features may be weighted on some other basis such as user preferences e.g. for particular categories reviews ratings e.g. restaurant reviews school test scores etc. social data statistics economic statistics data etc.

The illustrated routine determines and provides a location assessment score for an area based on designations of an area such as a rectangular grid that contains the area such as may be received from the assessment generator routine e.g. via parameter passing message passing etc. described with reference to above. Other embodiments may determine a location grid upon receiving a designated city neighborhood etc.

The routine performs a loop for each cell in the designated grid that represents the area to determine a representative weighted location assessment e.g. a score for the cell and then determines an overall aggregate location assessment for the area by combining the representative weighted assessments and further weighting them as desired. For example in the illustrated routine the representative weighted scores for each cell in a city are summed and then divided by the total population of the city to generate an average score for the area. In the embodiment shown the representative weighted score for each cell is computed by determining a walkability assessment or other location assessment for a center point in each cell and then weighting this by the total population in the cell. Other algorithms and computations for producing an aggregate score e.g. using statistical measures other than an average may be similarly incorporated.

In particular in step the routine initializes a total walkscore variable and a total population variable. In steps the routine performs a loop in which it processes each of the cells in a grid that represents the area to find a representative walk score for the cell and to accumulate the total walk score based on aggregating the representative cell scores. More specifically in step the routine determines whether there are more cells to process and if so proceeds to step otherwise proceeds to step . In step the routine finds the next current cell in the grid to process. In step the routine calculates the population of the current grid cell using any one of a variety of methods including using census track data to determine the population from each census block that contributes population to the grid cell e.g. by computing the percentage of the census block that falls within the grid cell multiplying the population of the census block by that percentage to yield a contribution of population to the cell and adding all of the contributions of populations from the census blocks that contribute population to the cell to determine a total cell population . In step the routine adds the determined population of the current grid cell to the total accumulated population for the area thus far. In step the routine determines a representative weighted score for the current grid cell for example by determining a location assessment for a location that represents the cell e.g. the center of the grid cell and weighting it e.g. multiplying by the current grid cell population. Then in step the routine adds the representative weighted score of the current grid cell to the total accumulated location assessments for the area computed thus far. In step after all of the grid cells of the area have been processed the routine divides the total accumulated location assessments by the total population and returns an area score.

As described such an aggregate area score may be used to provide a representative or average location assessment for a multitude of cities so that they may be ranked and presented as shown in the visual presentation of .

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet including but not limited to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 995 823 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING LOCATION ASSESSMENTS filed Sep. 28 2007 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example the methods systems and techniques for generating and providing location assessments discussed herein are applicable to other architectures other than a client server architecture or a LAPS implementation. Also the methods and systems discussed herein are applicable to differing network protocols communication media optical wireless cable etc. and devices such as wireless handsets electronic organizers personal digital assistants portable email machines game machines pagers navigation devices such as GPS receivers etc. .

