---

title: Protective cover assembly for electronics
abstract: A mechanism is provided for physically protecting an interface on an electronic device having first and second protrusions, each having a surface. The mechanism includes first and second clamping mechanisms, a hinge assembly and a cover plate. Each clamping mechanism has a pair of blocks that are detachably fastenable together. As assembled along the protrusion surface of the device, the blocks form a channel that rigidly engages that surface. The hinge assembly forms a pivotable joint and can be removably attached to the first clamping mechanism to orient the pivotable joint substantially parallel to the interface. The cover plate can be removably attached to the hinge assembly for disposal to swing on the pivotable joint between closed and open positions. In the closed position, the cover plate securely connects to at least the second clamping mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08720724&OS=08720724&RS=08720724
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08720724
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to a mountable cover plate. In particular the invention relates to a protective plate for sensitive electronic interfaces. The plate can be readily installed onto conventional attachments for the interface components and enable convenient access as desired.

Infantry assigned to patrol hostile territory can encounter an improvised explosive device IED disposed to cause damage and injury to personnel and equipment. Efforts to detect and disable such irregular weapons include projects under the Counter Remote controlled IED Electronic Warfare CREW office.

Various military vehicles used by the United States armed forces employ a CREW Vehicular Receiver Jammer CVRJ to aid troops in the field to defeat the IED. The CVRJ has electronic components connected to auxiliary equipment by cables. The CVRJ is commonly located in the vicinity of a vehicle s gunner and or other troops.

Conventional operations using the CVRJ in a military vehicle yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a mechanism is provided for physically protecting an interface on an electronic device that includes first and second protrusions each having a surface. The mechanism includes first and second clamping mechanisms a hinge assembly and a cover plate. Each of these components is attachable and detachable from one another.

Each clamping mechanism has a pair of blocks that are detachably fastenable together. As assembled along the protrusion surface of the device the blocks form a channel that rigidly engages that surface. The hinge assembly forms a pivotable joint and can be removably attached to the first clamping mechanism to orient the pivotable joint substantially parallel to the interface.

The cover plate can be removably attached to the hinge assembly for disposal to swing on the pivotable joint between closed and open positions. In the closed position the cover plate securely connects to at least the second clamping mechanism.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The proximity of the CREW Vehicular Receiver Jammer CVRJ to military personnel under field conditions renders the cable connections vulnerable to physical interaction and consequent damage. The CVRJ includes an interface at its front with 90 adapters thereby providing access for maintenance program instruction and switch initialization. Embodiments of the protective cover are currently in production and have been delivered to the field for operational use to provide protection to the cable and CVRJ interfaces. An initial run of five hundred units have already been fabricated and more than three thousand are planned for production.

The CVRJ Protective Cover Assembly is designed to isolate the front of the CVRJ interfaces from human interference. The mountable cover protects the cables and other features on the front of the CVRJ from being damaged or destroyed by the occupants of the vehicle in which the CVRJ is disposed.

The Protective Cover Assembly further includes a pair of handle clamps that form a channel a hinge mechanism and a thumb screw . The handle clamps flank the longitudinal ends on the reverse aft of the plate that faces the components. The channel can have a circular cross section e.g. or 0.5 inch diameter or alternate configuration as preferred to rigidly engage i.e. frictionally fasten to a corresponding handle or similar protrusion of the CVRJ or associated device. The hinge mechanism pivotably connects the plate to one of the clamps . In the configuration illustrated the plate has a longitudinal length between the clamps that exceeds the plate s width. Also in the arrangement described the plate can be described as having a pivot side shown as port and a swing side shown as starboard . The thumb screw could also be replaced with a variety of fasteners such as quarter turn or push to lock style clamps. For the configuration depicted herein the cover assembly weighs 4 lbm incorporating the plate having dimensions of 12.5 6 composed of T6 6061 aluminum.

The hinge mechanism corresponds to a hinge assembly which includes a fore arm and a lateral arm sharing an edge to form a hinge joint. The arms at the edge join by annular segments that interlink with each other to form a concatenated pivoting joint held by an internal rod or pin longitudinally aligned with the pivot axis. The fore arm is fastened to the plate at swing side orifices by short screws . Additional short screws fasten the lateral arm to the pivot fore block . Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the screws and inserted into corresponding threaded orifices represent only an exemplary instrument for attachment and are not limiting. Other mechanisms such as latches and adhesive can substitute for screws.

The configuration described enables the plate to be swung on a vertical pivot axis. The pivot side can correspond to port as shown or alternatively to starboard with the thumb screw engaging on at port. Artisans of ordinary skill will also recognize that the hinge mechanism can alternatively be distributed between both port and starboard clamps to enable the plate to be swung upward or downward from a horizontal pivot axis.

The plate can be secured by the thumb screw to the swing side clamp . The window provides visual access to a portion of the interface . shows an elevation view of the CVRJ with the Protective Cover Assembly installed and closed. The indicators can be visually observed through the window as the unit rests on the platform suspended on its legs .

The Protective Cover Assembly for the CVRJ is designed for permanent or long term installation with a hinged cover plate to provide quick access to the cables and switches on the interface at the front of the unit . The clamps that attach the Protective Cover Assembly are removable enabling the components to be detached and stored. The Protective Cover Assembly is first attached to the CVRJ unit by installing the clamps onto the handles . The plate is then attached to the pivot side clamp using the hinge mechanism and to enable swinging freely. The cover plate is closed using a thumb screw through the plate and into the swing side clamp . The Protective Cover Assembly remains mounted to the CVRJ unit and the cover plate opened when access is required and closed when traveling. The Protective Cover Assembly can similarly be detached from the unit by removing the screws that secure the hinge mechanism to the pivot side clamp and to detach both clamps from their respective handles .

Because the CVRJ is shock mounted a cover that protects the cables must effectively either encase the entire unit i.e. including the platform or attach only to the shock mounted portion i.e. above the legs . The design of the Protective Cover Assembly enables attachment onto the CVRJ with no modifications to the unit . This facilitates expedient installation in any vehicle that is equipped with CVRJ. The mounting method can also be adapted to other applications of equipment having similar environmental and operational requirements as the CVRJ. This also permits access to the front of the CVRJ without the need of tools to remove the entire assembly.

The CVRJ Protective Cover Assembly can be made from a variety materials including but not limited to aluminum steel and stainless steel depending on field requirements and material availability. The cover plate can be modified to accommodate any customization alterations such as in area coverage shape location and configuration of window etc without departing from the inventive concept described in the above embodiments.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

