---

title: Generation of residue-free decontaminant using hydrogen peroxide, ammonia, and carbon dioxide
abstract: A method for in situ generation of a decontamination solution adapted to decontaminate mustard agents by oxidation and nerve agents by perhydrolysis, comprising the steps of generating a stable precursor solution of aqueous NHHCOby bubbling COand NHinto a container of water; and adding a peroxide component to the precursor solution. The step of bubbling COinto a container of water may be accomplished by bubbling fossil fuel engine exhaust including COdirectly into the container of water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07838476&OS=07838476&RS=07838476
owner: The United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07838476
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080926
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured licensed and used by or for the United States Government

This invention relates to methods for decontaminating chemical warfare agents. More specifically the invention relates to methods for decontaminating mustard agents such as the vesicant HD by oxidation as well as nerve agents such as VX and GD by perhydrolysis using environmentally safe stable clean reactants that leave no residue and that can be prepared on site in the field of combat.

Military forces are confronted with chemical agents in battlefields and both military and civilians are at risk for chemical leaks and terrorist attacks using chemical weapons. Decontamination systems are important because they allow rapid neutralization of hazardous materials in the immediate area of a soldier. To date decontamination systems include liquid solutions solid sorbents and gaseous mixtures that allow the rapid decontamination and restoration of materials and equipment in order to minimize downtime for military operations.

Several types of toxic chemical compounds are known to be useful as chemical warfare agents. These include mustard agents or gases known as blister agents such as bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide also know as HD and nerve agents such pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate which is also known as GD and O ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethylmethylphosphonothioate which is known a VX. HD is a colorless oily liquid that is highly insoluble in water and it is a powerful vesicant causes blistering of skin which affects the eyes and the lungs blisters the skin and is considered a carcinogen. HD is also cytotoxic to hematopoietic tissue and can be lethal at high doses. GD and VX are powerful nerve agents that attack the nerve cells and impair the functioning of the central nervous system.

As discussed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 245 957 and 6 723 891 to decontaminate the vesicant mustard gas and render it non vesicant it is necessary to oxidize the mustard gas to the corresponding sulfoxide. Nerve agents such as VX and GD are rendered non toxic by perhydrolysis to their non toxic phosphonic acids. The oxidation of HD to HD sulfoxide HDO renders the gas non vesicant. The reaction of a nerve agent with peroxide compounds is effective as an oxidation process to decontaminate nerve agents. Mildly basic peroxide is also known to cause the perhydrolysis of VX and GD to their non toxic phosphonic acids. Peroxides are desirable reactants for decontamination because they are non toxic and non corrosive as compared to hypochlorite based processes which are toxic and therefore environmentally damaging.

Current hydrogen peroxide based decontaminants such as DF200 produced by Envirofoam Technologies and Decon Green produced by Steris Corp require non liquid activators and or surfactants which leave a white solid residue following decontamination operations. This white solid residue has to be removed by rinsing of the decontaminated items. This is especially important for military vehicles so that they may maintain their low visibility and or low IR signature.

Recently a gaseous decontaminant known as Modified Vaporized Hydrogen Peroxide mVHP produced by Steris Corp. has shown that hydrogen peroxide HO vapor when mixed with minor amounts of ammonia gas NH is efficacious for the decontamination of chemical warfare agents and biological warfare agents such as anthrax on surfaces. Being that mVHP is a gas it is best suited to operate as a decontaminating fumigant for enclosed areas such as buildings vehicles and aircraft interiors. An advantage of the mVHP gas is that when used for decontaminating chemical warfare agents and biological warfare agents it does not leave a residue and is benign to sensitive equipment and materials. The mVHP process is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 102 052.

Although gaseous NHis able to afford suitable activation of the HOin the gas phase for the decontamination of chemical warfare agents VX and GD. However gaseous NHalone would not be effective as an activator for a solution of HObased decontaminants because of its inability to generate the necessary peroxo species required for facile HD oxidation. Peroxo species are typically generated by the reaction of HOwith alkali molybdates or bicarbonates in solution to form peroxomolybdate or peroxocarbonate species which are much more effective oxidation catalysis for HD than HOitself. Such alkali activators are extremely stable for transport and storage. Their main drawback is the need to rinse away the white residues remaining following their use in decontaminating of chemical warfare agents VX and GD.

An alternate bicarbonate activator ammonium bicarbonate NHHCO in powder form would not leave a lasting residue as it decomposes to NH water and carbon dioxide CO a process greatly accelerated by heat. Thus although NHHCOcould be utilized with HOto generate a no rinse residue free decontaminant this material would not be stable under the potentially uncontrolled storage conditions that are common to the military such as in the field of combat.

Similar to the reasons discussed above U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 245 957 6 566 574 6 723 890 and 7 390 432 also relate to the present invention. However one significant distinction is that certain of the constituents are not stable and difficult to use in the field of combat.

It is an object of the present invention to demonstrate the efficacy of decontaminants generated using CO NH HO and water as active ingredients for the decontamination of the vesicant VX and nerve agents GD and HD.

It is a further object of the present invention to employ additional ingredients including surfactants Triton X 100 which is a wetting agent that makes the decontamination solution more effective against toxins that repel water co solvents propylene carbonate which is a solvent for some agents which are oily in nature to aid in the dissolution of water insoluble HD and propylene glycol which stabilizes the liquid decontaminant below freezing temperatures to allow the use of the decontamination solution at sub zero temperatures.

According to an embodiment of the present invention since commercial COis typically generated or recovered from the combustion of fossil fuels a ready source for COduring decontamination operations in the field of combat could be recovered from vehicle exhaust burning fossil fuel such as diesel gasoline coal natural gas .

According to an embodiment of the present invention COexhaust gases recovered from a diesel powered decontamination solution applicator such as the Falcon fixed site decontamination system can be mixed with NHin an aqueous solution to generate NHHCO. The resulting NHHCOcould then be used as the requisite activator to generate an efficacious HO based decontaminant solution. Note that the Falcon is a large scale compressed air foam truck and trailer system capable of dispersing fire suppression foam as well as biological and chemical warfare decontamination formulas.

According to an embodiment of the invention the exhaust fixed site decontamination system can both generate COto create and to spray a bicarbonate activated HO based decontaminant solution. Such a solution could be composed from at a minimum of four stable multipurpose decontamination precursor materials NH CO HOand water. Further after activation of NHby COto generate NHHCOand then the use of the latter for decontamination the NHHCOdecomposes to the residue free no rinse solution of NH COand water.

According to the present invention there is disclosed a method for generating a decontamination solution adapted to decontaminate mustard agents by oxidation and nerve agents by perhydrolysis in situ comprising the steps of generating a stable precursor solution of aqueous NHHCOin situ by bubbling COand NHinto a container of water and adding a peroxide component to the precursor solution. The method also includes the step of mixing an alcohol component to the precursor solution.

Also according to the present invention the step of bubbling COinto a container of water includes the step of bubbling fossil fuel engine exhaust including COinto the container of water. Further the step of bubbling COand NHincludes the step of stirring the water in the container as the COand NHare bubbled therethrough.

Further according to the present invention the alcohol component includes polyoxyethylene ethers as a surfucant for the decontamination solution propylene glycol as a non toxic anti freeze for the decontamination solution and propylene carbonate to act as a solvent for some of the agents.

Still further according to the present invention the decontaminant solutions are for decontaminating mustard agents such as the vesicant HD by oxidation and nerve agents such as VX and GD by perhydrolysis. In addition the perhydrolysis leaves no residue and can be prepared in situ.

Yet further according to the present invention the step of generating the decontamination solution includes providing the precursor solution of aqueous NHHCOto be about 1 by volume to about 50 by volume of the decontamination solution mixing between about 0.1 by volume to about 15 by volume of polyoxyethylene ether into the precursor solution mixing between about 0.1 by volume to about 15 by volume of propylene carbonate into the precursor solution mixing between about 1 by volume to about 50 by volume of propylene glycol into the precursor solution and mixing between about 1 by volume to about 50 by volume of an aqueous solution of the peroxide component HOinto the precursor solution.

Still further according to the present invention the step of generating the decontamination solution includes providing the precursor solution of aqueous NHHCOto be about 25 by volume of the decontamination solution mixing about 10 by volume of polyoxyethylene ether into the precursor solution mixing about 10 by volume of propylene carbonate into the precursor solution mixing about 25 by volume of propylene glycol into the precursor solution and mixing about 25 by volume of an aqueous solution of the peroxide component HOinto the precursor solution.

Also according to the present invention the decontamination solution is generated by mixing NH HO and water and then bubbling fossil fuel engine exhaust that contains COthrough the solution so that the NH CO and water are activated in situ to form NHHCO.

Further according to the present invention the precursors of the liquid decontamination solution can also be used to produce a gaseous decontaminate allowing a single set of precursors to uniquely produce both gaseous and solution decontaminants thereby reducing inventory complexity and increasing application flexibility.

Yet further according to the present invention the decontamination solution leaves no residue on treated materials that require removal by a liquid rinsing operation.

Also according to the present invention the decontamination solution s final reactants are environmentally safe and non toxic.

Further according to the present invention the decontamination efficiency is between 1 and 30 minutes when the volume ratio of decontaminant solution to chemical warfare agent VX GD or HD is 50 to 1 and the concentration of the active ingredient in the decontaminate solution NHHCO is at 1.6 M moles L .

Yet further according to the present invention the surfactant Triton X 100 and co solvents Propylene Carbonate and Propylene Glycol are added to the solution of active ingredients to prevent the solution from freezing or slushing at temperatures greater than 20 degrees Celsius and the co solvents aid in the dissolution of the water insoluble HD agent.

Also according to the present invention the resulting NHHCOdecontamination solution does not slush freeze or precipitate at temperatures from about 10 degree C. to about 35 degree C.

Still further according to the present invention the NHHCOdecontamination solution is preferably maintained at a pH of from about 7 to about 12.

Yet further according to the present invention the NHHCOdecontamination solution decomposes to NHand COgases and liquid HO.

Also according to the present invention the NHHCOdecontamination solution effectively decontaminates mustard agents by oxidation and nerve agents by perhydrolysis with 1 part agent to 50 parts of decontaminant.

According to the present invention the NHHCOdecontamination solution effectively decontaminates mustard agents by oxidation and nerve agents by perhydrolysis with 1 part agent to 50 parts of decontaminant in less than about 30 minutes.

An embodiment of the present invention is a nerve and mustard agent especially VX GB GD and HD chemical agents decontamination composition and method for neutralizing chemical warfare agents with the composition. The composition includes a mixture of ammonium bicarbonate peroxide and alcohol components. As a suitable replacement for decontaminants that leave a residue the present invention has a broad spectrum reactivity towards all agents even in cold weather operations while achieving a significant reduction in the toxic corrosive and environmentally harmful nature of the decontaminant.

An embodiment of the present invention may be used for a broad range of chemical warfare agents and or decontamination applications ranging from heavy equipment to sensitive equipment electronics building aircraft and vehicle interiors and personnel.

An embodiment of the present invention is a chemical warfare agent decontaminating composition comprising a mixture of ammonium bicarbonate peroxide and alcohol components effective to degrade and detoxify a chemical warfare agent. The term composition may include without limitation sprays vapors liquids solids and or other physical forms of mixtures that incorporate the ammonium bicarbonate peroxide and alcohol components as a unitary decontaminant. Preferably the mixture comprises a blended liquefied combination of the components. A blended liquefied combination of the components provides the mixed compounds as uniformly dispersed together within the mixture.

An embodiment of the present invention relates to methods for forming decontaminant solutions adapted for decontaminating mustard agents such as the vesicant HD by oxidation as well as nerve agents such as VX and GD by perhydrolysis. An important aspect of an embodiment of the present invention is that perhydrolysis uses environmentally safe stable clean reactants that leave no residue and that can be prepared in situ i.e. in the field of combat.

The method of generating the decontaminating solutions first includes the step of generating a NHHCO ammonium bicarbonate solution by bubbling NHat between about 1000 liters per minute L min and 0.1 milliliters per minute mL min depending on scale of use into a suitable container such as a mixing tank or bottle containing about 1000 L to about 1 mL. For testing purposes NHcan be bubbled at about 120 mL min into a container such as a bottle containing about 200 mL of water. It s desirable that the water be stirred as the gases are bubbled there through. In addition and preferably at the same time as the NHis being bubbled through the stirred water between about 1000 L min and about 0.1 mL min COis bubbled into the bottle of stirred water. For testing an embodiment of the present invention approximately about 200 mL min COis bubbled into the bottle of stirred water. However it is preferable in practice that the same amount of NHand COare bubbled into the water.

An important aspect of an embodiment of the present invention relates to the source of COduring decontamination operations in the field of combat. COis generally cumbersome to provide on a military battleground.

According to an embodiment of the present invention suitable CO is typically generated or recovered from the combustion of fossil fuels. A ready source for COduring decontamination operations in the field of combat is that recovered from a vehicle exhaust burning fossil fuel such as diesel gasoline coal natural gas . The exhaust is simply delivered by a pipe such a flexible hose to a container of water used to mix the NHand CO.

For example COexhaust gases recovered from a diesel powered decontamination solution applicator such as the Falcon fixed site decontamination system can be mixed with NHin an aqueous solution to generate NHHCO.

Practicing the previously described method in a testing situation within a laboratory resulted in a build up of dissolved NHHCOin the solution. The buildup was monitored by a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer NMR as shown in Table 1.

Table 1 illustrates the results of a test of bubbling both NHand CO at a rate of about 120 mL min NHand 200 mL min CO into a bottle containing about 200 mL of stirred water. It s desirable that the water be stirred as the gases are bubbled through the bottle.

After about 90 minutes the NHand CObubbling is halted and the resulting solution contains about 1.60 moles per liter M of NHHCO. It s understood that the resulting amount of NHHCOcould be generated faster with a higher flow rate of NHand COand or optimized mixing devices.

The next step entails generating a typical decontamination solution by mixing several additional constituents into the solution of NHHCO. First Triton X 100 a surfactant wetting agent that makes the decontamination solution more effective against agents and toxins that repel water can be mixed in at between about 0.1 by volume to about 15 by volume and preferably about 10 by volume. Next propylene carbonate a solvent for some agents such as HD which are oily in nature can be mixed in at between about 0.1 by volume to about 15 by volume and preferably about 10 by volume to aid in the dissolution of water insoluble HD. Continuing propylene glycol antifreeze can be mixed in at between about 1 by volume to about 50 by volume and preferably at 25 by volume. The propylene glycol stabilizes the liquid decontaminant below freezing temperature s to allow the use of the decontamination solution at sub zero temperatures. Next the aqueous solution of HO typically of a concentration of about 35 HO can be mixed in at between about 1 by volume to about 50 by volume and preferably about 30 by volume with the remainder of the solution being the NHHCOsolution generated as previously discussed. The NHHCOsolution being the remainder can be between about 0.1M to 5M and preferably 1.6M of NHHCO. The NHHCOsolution can make up between about 1 to about 50 by volume and preferably about 25 by volume of the resulting NHHCOand HOdecontamination solution.

The propylene glycol and propylene carbonate solvent components of the mixture provide antifreeze and a co solvent to the solution respectively. The solvents also aids in dissolving the chemical warfare agent. The solvent components however may comprise any compound suitable as a co solvent with lower molecular weight alcohols such as less than about 300 MW being particularly desirable. Co solvents may include without limitation t BuOH ethanol grain alcohol isopropanol rubbing alcohol propylene glycol a food additive and non toxic anti freeze polypropylene glycol a food additive and or derivatives and combinations thereof. The compounds propylene glycol and propylene carbonate are particularly effective and preferred.

The surfactant wetting agent a solvent for some agents which are oily in nature and the co solvent component generally fit into a group of chemical mixtures known as microemulsions. In general a microemulsion is a transparent or translucent thermodynamically stable isotropic dispersion of two immiscible liquids with microdomains of one or both liquids stabilized by an interfacial film of surface active molecules. It typically comprises water at least one organic solvent oil at least one surfactant and in most cases at least one co solvent. The water in oil microemulsions are roughly spherical water microdroplets coated by an interfacial film of a surfactant e.g. sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS and a co solvent e.g. butanol BuOH and dispersed in a continuous phase of oil e.g. hexane. The suitable surfactants non exclusively include cetyltrimethylammonium chloride CTAC and polyoxyethylene ethers such as polyoxyethylene isooctylphenyl ether Triton X 100 . Of these polyoxyethylene ethers are preferred. Other suitable co solvents non exclusively include 2 propanol 2 methyl 1 propanol and propylene carbonate. Of these propylene carbonate is preferred. The microemulsion may also further include at least one carbonate and or bicarbonate activator as described above. The bicarbonate component e.g. NHHCO and the peroxide component e.g. HO are dissolved within the microemulsion to form the desired monoperoxocarbonate compound. The hydrogen peroxide is generally added in batches to the medium. It generates O but also some water as a side product derived both from the disproportionation and from the water of dilution of hydrogen peroxide.

The microemulsion should ideally be designed to meet three requirements no phase separation during storage and during the oxidation reaction high solubility of the reactants e.g. peroxide and bicarbonate components and simple recovery of the oxidized product surfactant and catalyst bicarbonate compound at the end of the reaction. Furthermore none of the components of the microemulsion itself should react with the peroxide bicarbonate or the intermediates derived therefrom monoperoxocarbonate . In an alternate embodiment the monoperoxocarbonate compound may be dispersed in a water surfactant medium. The water surfactant medium may include any of the surfactants described above and may further include one or more co solvents from the list described above.

The process includes forming a monoperoxocarbonate compound having the formula HCO in a suitable medium by reacting a peroxide component and a bicarbonate component in the medium. The preferred medium is a microemulsion which was described above. The peroxide component comprises a material selected from the group consisting of hydrogen peroxide solid urea hydrogen peroxide sodium percarbonate peroxide polymer supported e.g. polyvinylpyrrolidinone hydrogen peroxides and combinations and derivatives thereof. Of these the preferred peroxide is 35 aqueous HO. Solid hydrogen peroxide forms such as sodium percarbonate and polymer supported e.g. polyvinylpyrrolidinone hydrogen peroxides is also particularly applicable to address concerns of storage and handling of concentrated aqueous hydrogen peroxide in the field. Additionally these solid peroxide forms are non toxic and environmentally friendly. The peroxide component is preferably present in the microemulsion at from about 1 to about 25 weight percent more preferably from about 5 to about 20 weight percent and most preferably from about 8 to about 15 weight percent.

The resulting NHHCOdecontamination solution exhibits stability and does not slush freeze or precipitate at temperatures from about 10 degrees C. to about 35 degrees C. more preferably from about 25 degrees C. to about 30 degrees C. and most preferably from about 30 degrees C. to about 35 degrees C. Additionally the NHHCOdecontamination solution is preferably maintained at a pH of from about 7 to about 12 more preferably from about 7.5 to about 11 and most preferably from about 8 to about 10.

Because of this temperature range the resulting decontamination solution is suitable for use at ambient and sub zero temperatures. An important quality of this decontamination solution is that it will not leave any persistent residue after evaporation of the liquid constituents or the decomposition of NHHCOto the gases NHand CO and liquid HO. In some cases there is initially a white powder that will typically evaporate within about several minutes to hours depending on the thickness of the deposit and climatic conditions such as temperature wind and sunlight.

For effective decontamination of mustard agents such as HD by oxidation as well as nerve agents such as VX and GD by perhydrolysis it is desirable to decontaminate 1 to 50 challenges that is decontaminating 1 part agent with 50 parts of decontaminant. For example about 50 mL of decontaminant should be able to decontaminate 1 mL of chemical warfare agent. Further the decontamination time should preferably require 30 minutes or less. Table 2 shows the results of a laboratory test where the reaction rates of 1 50 challenges of VX GD and HD with the no residue decontamination solution described above.

When used on a chemical warfare agent such as for example HD VX and GD the above described solution is placed in contact with the chemical warfare agent. The contact may be accomplished by immersing a chemical warfare agent covered article in the solution spraying the solution onto an article or other contacting means that permit the chemical warfare agent to react with the composition of the present invention preferably by dissolving the chemical warfare agent into a solution of the composition. Contact may also be accomplished by any combining of the chemical warfare agent with the composition that permits a reaction. After contact the combined composition and chemical warfare agent may be agitated stirred or rubbed to mix them together. Once contacted the composition reacts and neutralizes the chemical warfare agent. Neutralization of the chemical warfare agent occurs with chemical degradation that decreases the effectiveness of the chemical warfare agent as a hazard to personnel. An important aspect of an embodiment of the present invention is that neutralization is accomplished quickly and without leaving a persistent residue.

An exemplary no residue decontamination solution includes about 10 by volume of Triton X 100 about 10 by volume of propylene carbonate about 25 by volume of propylene glycol 30 by volume of HO 35 aqueous preferred and the remainder of the solution being about 25 by volume of 1.6M of NHHCO. The results of a test using this decontamination solution with 1 50 challenges of VX GD and HD are illustrated in Table 2.

Referring again to Table 2 it can be observed that when VX reacted with the exemplary no residue decontamination solution described above non toxic ethyl methyl phosphoric acid EMPA was the sole product and no toxic EA 2192 compound was formed. The initial reaction was quite rapid consuming 71.4 of the VX within the first two minutes. After 15 minutes only 2.8 of the VX remained. The final non significant proportion reacted completely within 2 hours.

Referring again to Table 2 it can be observed that the GD reaction with the exemplary no residue decontamination solution described above is rapid and is complete within 2 minutes. Only non toxic pinacolyl methylphosphonate PMPA and Peroxy PMPA were observed after the reaction completed. The presence of the Peroxy PMPA intermediate signifies that the reaction included an attack peroxyanion nucleophile OOH which is the expected mechanism for basic HOdecontaminants.

Referring again to Table 2 it can be observed that the HD reaction with the exemplary no residue decontamination solution described above was pseudo first order exhibiting a half life of 3.6 minutes. This half life is considerably less than the 42 minute half life previously reported by Wagner and Yang U.S. Pat. No. 6 245 957 for HD in the absence of bicarbonate and this half life period is consistent with the formation of the powerful monoperoxocarbonate HCO.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred embodiment or embodiments certain equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification. In particular regard to the various methods and apparatus used in detecting multiple biological threat agents the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such detection are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any methods or apparatus which perform the specified detection of the described multiple chemical and biological threat agents i.e. that is functionally equivalent even though not equivalent to the disclosed methods or apparatus which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such a feature may be combined with one or more features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

