---

title: Method and apparatus for social network marketing with brand referral
abstract: A service provider facilitates consumption of goods, brands, or services on an interactive network using characterizations of consumers, behavior, brands, consumable goods, advertisers, and advocates to determine a three-way match between a consumable good, a consumer, and an advocate. The matching method determines one or more goods likely to be benefit from the marketing scheme by maximizing the estimated contextual value of personalized advocacy. Further, the service provider captures the value of the personalized advocacy in each match, and distributes that value in the form of various marketing incentives.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560390&OS=08560390&RS=08560390
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08560390
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080303
---
The present disclosure relates generally to an online marketing system with personalized advocacy for branded consumables.

The Internet has become a marketplace for goods and services offering wide selection at low prices. Despite these advantages some consumers prefer the personalized experience of in person sales and retain loyalty to so called brick and mortar stores. Retailers service providers and advertisers seek improved means of marketing goods over the Internet.

Research has shown that some consumers prefer and are more likely to be influenced by marketing efforts provided by access to persons familiar with the marketed goods brands or services. In a brick and mortar store consumers prefer retailers who provide individualized service trustworthy knowledge superior support and easy access to quality goods. Some consumers prefer the social experience of personal interaction. Consumers are also heavily influenced by the consumption preferences of their social peers.

Perhaps the most powerful kind of advertising is so called word of mouth advertising. In typical word of mouth advertising a potential consumer is influenced by a product advocate socially connected to the consumer. The advocacy is a valuable service to the product supplier or advertiser. At this time there is no simple way to assess the value of this advocacy and no infrastructure to support product advocacy provide consumer advocate brand matching services and provide advocacy incentives. Further at this time no means exist for the consumable advertiser or supplier to compensate the network operator for facilitating communications between consumers and consumption advocates.

A service provider facilitates consumption of products brands or services on an interactive network by characterizing consumers consumption behavior brands consumables advertisers and advocates to determine a three way match between a consumable good a consumer and an advocate. The matching method inputs two out of three parties to the match a consumer and an advocate and determines one or more consumable goods likely to be sold by maximizing the estimated contextual value of personalized advocacy. Further the service provider captures the value of the personalized advocacy in each match and distributes that value in the form of various marketing incentives.

A possible use of the present invention is to computationally capture support and monetize word of mouth advertising providing sponsors a way to utilize personalized advocates to deliver authentic marketing messages to prospective consumers. In particular this invention focuses on a system to manage and locate products for personalized marketing campaigns on interactive networks.

Network users typically operate a physical device such as a telephone a text messenger a cell phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant a networked music video player a personal computer or a public terminal to access marketing information on the Internet utilizing a number of application programs to consume network content. The Internet consumer is typically able to access a plethora of information available online. The digital information consumer perceives information conveyed over the network through various forms of media objects including text icons voice avatars audio recordings pictures animations videos interactive widgets and other audiovisual information.

The source code for a media object or a web page may contain metadata and one or more instances of script languages. ECMAScript is a script programming language standardized by ECMA International of Geneva Switzerland in the ECMA 262 specification. JavaScript and Jscript are the most common implementations of the EMCAScript standard. JavaScript is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. technology is further developed and implemented under license by the Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. JScript is an ECMAScript implementation from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. JavaScript and Jscript are often used for client side interactive web applications.

When a consumer accesses a web page script functions can interact with the Document Object Model DOM of the web page to perform one or more tasks. Scripts may also be used to make service requests to remote servers after a page has loaded. These requests can obtain new information or data as well as load or launch additional applications e.g. media object players content viewers application plug ins or software codes. Script code can merge with the DOM of the underlying page so that one or more additional media objects are displayed or otherwise rendered on the page. Alternatively the script code may initiate one or more additional pages or other rendering for the additional media object s . When script code is embedded into an HTML document and subsequently accessed by a client application the client application may retrieve and execute the script. The script may initiate service requests to one or more remote servers to retrieve and render one or more media objects that enhance the underlying content of the page optionally using parameter values assigned in the embedded code. For example the script when executed may access stored locally stored user preferences or user attributes stored in relation to the use of browser cookies and contain one or more user attributes in a dynamically generated service request.

The invention described herein is a backbone marketing system to support enhanced consumer access to marketing information preferably provided by social peers of the consumer. The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems apparatuses and methods meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope.

The following description sets forth numerous details to provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances algorithms for processing data and symbolic representations of algorithmic operations are the means used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm as used herein is a sequence of operations leading to a desired result said operations requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of a sequence of electrical signals representing binary numbers to be stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated.

The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise one or more general purpose computers selectively activated by one or more computer programs to achieve the required results. Such a computer program may be stored in any suitable computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form that is usable by a machine such as a general purpose computer.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used in accordance with the teachings herein and it may prove expedient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the algorithm operations. The required structure for a variety of these systems may appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

The specification sets the framework by first describing a block diagram of a PeopleMatch backbone system which operates to identify best matches between a consumer a branded consumable and an advocate. Second examples of matching algorithms employed are described. In each match various prospective consumers are considered and their marketing value is estimated in a context dependent manner to determine best matches. Various example marketing and matching contexts are described. Third a set of one or more best prospects is utilized in a marketing campaign where the actual value of advocacy is determined and distributed. A portion of the distributed value provides various marketing incentives to expand the PeopleMatch marketing system. Fourth an alternative embodiment demonstrates an adaptive matching algorithm based on primitive attributes.

In the system it is convenient to think of the typical user as a potential consumer of a brand product service or other consumable but as described further below a user may also qualify as an advocate or as an expert as discussed further below. Although the system may be used anonymously in a preferred embodiment a user has a profile of various explicitly defined or implicitly derived attributes including one or more attributes related to social interaction and consuming habits. In one embodiment the user registers and optionally completes an explicit user profile at registration. In another embodiment user profiles are obtained from an external service provider. In an alternate or further embodiment user attributes are supplied in a backbone service request such as by passing a user cookie as described above. In an alternate or additional embodiment user attributes are learned through online activity. Attributes of users learned in network use are further tracked in user profiler stored in a database of user profiles and in one embodiment adaptively modified as described further below.

A user profile in database includes user attributes and one or more ratings related to a user s social preferences such as user demographic groups social connections and relative ratings associated with the various attributes. In one embodiment an attribute rating is on a scale from negative one to positive one with a positive one denoting that the rating holder is perfectly aligned with the attribute and a negative one denoting that the rating holder is perfectly misaligned with the attribute. To illustrate an example attribute may be male buying habits. A user who completely fit the pattern associated with the attribute would have an associated rating of positive one while a user who completely fit the opposite pattern female buying habits would have a male buying habit rating of negative one. Users who displayed a mix of male and female buying habits would be rated somewhere between negative and positive one.

A user profile may also include one or more rated attributes of consumption interest in a brand product or service BPS rated attributes of existing relationship s with a BPS and rated knowledge about a BPS. A user profile may also include one or more means of communicating with the user and with more than one means a relative priority of means of communication. In one embodiment the user profile is partitioned into social temporal spatial and semantic ratings. In one embodiment a user profile contains one or more personalized user consumption ratings. In a preferred embodiment each user is assigned a unique identifier to be associated with access to the various user attributes in database .

In a further embodiment one or more groups of users with one or more common attributes may be formed. A user s attributes may include the identification of the user s groups and for each such group a rating of the user s alignment with the group. For example two user groups might be males and females . Further two or more user groups may be hierarchically organized in a progression from personal association to local group association to global association. To illustrate a user may be geographically classified in various groups including a city group a county group a state group a country group a continent group and the entire group of users. In one embodiment the user has an associated rating for the one or more geographic groups. The ratings may be further characterized as personal ratings local ratings or global ratings. For example a user may be a citizen of Oakland in the state of California in the United States. A user rating may be decomposed into the global view of users who are United States citizens modified by the more localized view of users who are Californians further influenced by the local view of users who are citizens of Oakland and refined by the personal alignment of the user. In one embodiment the averaged statistical response of each group in various contexts is tabulated and stored as a rating in the user database and one or more ratings associated with a group are determined adaptively as described further below. For example the consumption habits of the group of users in a male group may be statistically analyzed to determine average group consumption habits.

In the system advocates are a pre qualified and monitored subset of users. As used herein advocates may be further classified into two or more categories. The advocate categories include non monetary incentive advocates and monetary incentive experts. Further some advocates are further qualified as experts. As mentioned above a user may optionally choose to participate and may be further qualified as an advocate for a BPS by the marketing system. In one embodiment general BPS advocates are motivated with non monetary incentives related to the value of their advocacy. In a further embodiment a user may optionally choose to participate and may be further qualified as an expert advocate for a BPS. In one embodiment expert BPS advocates are further motivated with monetary incentives related to the value of their advocacy.

In a preferred embodiment an advocate has a profile of various explicitly defined or implicitly derived attributes including one or more attributes related to social interaction and advocacy skills. Attributes of advocates learned in use of the network or system are further tracked in advocate profiler stored in a database of advocate profiles and in one embodiment adaptively modified as described below. In a preferred embodiment each advocate is assigned a unique identifier used to access the advocate attributes in database .

In a further embodiment feedback from consumer actions external product suppliers advertisers and or other marketers is also adaptively used to modify advocate profiles. An advocate profile may also include one or more personal attributes such as advocate demographics advocate social connections a set of user groups for the advocate and relative alignment and popularity ratings associated with different demographic groups. An advocate profile may also include one or more rated attributes of an existing relationship or connection to a brand product or service BPS and one or rated attributes related to knowledge about a BPS. In one embodiment the advocate database includes one or more attributes indicating means of communicating with the advocate and or one or more communication availability status indicators.

In one embodiment an advocate profile contains one or more types of advocate marketing scores. In a further embodiment advocates are sub divided into a number of advocate classification types. For example a user who purchases a product may be qualified as a product consumer advocate while a user who meets a higher product supplier s criterion may be qualified as a brand advocate. A set of advocate classification types may also include one or more categories of experts. Experts may be further classified as paid experts incentive experts or self motivated experts. A paid expert may be for example a manufacturer s representative. An incentive expert is motivated to act to realize certain non monetary incentives as described further below. A self motivated expert does not receive tangible incentives but may receive intangible incentives such as an improved advocacy rating. Each type of advocate may have its own standard of qualification and means of updating advocate ratings applied by advocate profiler .

A database of consumable goods is determined and updated by BPS profiler . A consumable good is typically a product brand or service but could be anything that can be marketed including a reference to further marketing materials such as a manufacturer s website. The system characterizes and stores one or more attributes of a consumable BPS such as a characterization of a BPS s typical buying cycle a BPS s competing products demographics of the average BPS consumer BPS marketing goals and so on.

An example buying cycle for a hypothetical product is depicted as a funnel in . A favorable buying cycle for this product may contain various identifiable phases typically progressing from the general to the specific. In this example the number of phases from first inquiry to sale is illustrated as four but this is for illustration purposes only and not by way of limitation. The actual number of identifiable phases may be smaller or larger for a particular consumable good. Further one or more of the identified phases may be further subdivided or combined with another identified phase. In this example the consumer is acquiring information about available products in a generalized market survey narrowing to acquisition of marketing materials for a few competing products comparison shopping to focus on one or more specific branded products and purchasing in a product sale . A consumer may further opt in to become a product advocate and finally to become a product expert . As mentioned above the categories of advocate and or expert may be further subdivided and characterized. For example a consumer who favors a purchased product may qualify as a product using advocate while a consumer who also displays knowledge about competing products may qualify as a product comparison advocate .

The behavioral profiler may be considered as combining known members of the set of who what where how when related to a potential consumption to assess consumer interests the probability of consumption and in the case of a purchase the location in a buying timeline. In a typical evaluation a known user is a prospect who would consume influenced by socially related persons who would advocate consumption. A product brand or service is what the consumer would prospectively consume as well as marketing messages for the BPS. The best advocate marketing message or product depends in part on where the consumer is both in terms of physical location of the user or request as well as in terms of network location such as the current web page domain network or service provider and includes device specifics such as display device communication device and so on. The behavioral profiler estimates how the purchase is to be made as well as how best to approach the consumer. The behavioral profiler also analyzes browsing requests to estimate when the purchase is to be made in an estimated user modified product buying cycle. By monitoring various browsing and other online activities of the user in behavioral profiler and adaptively modifying behavioral database future consumption habits of the consumer may be predicted particularly as the consumer approaches a major purchase. Results from the behavioral profiler are stored in database .

At each phase of the typical funneling behavior the breadth of consumer inquiries is diminished the consumer shifts focus from the more general to the more specific and fewer consumers qualify for progression in the cycle narrowing to a smaller stream. Note that the typical buying cycle for a long term asset such as an automobile is very different than the buying cycle for a short term convenience like an automatic can opener. In one embodiment the behavioral profiler accounts for these differences by dividing BPSs into categories and characterizes the various phases of the buying cycle in each category and marketing context.

The BPS profiler inputs or learns characterizations of the different buying phases for each general and specific type of a BPS and stores characterization of various buying cycles indexed by BPS identifier in database . In one embodiment similar products are grouped together in categories such as example category auto insurance. Alternatively a characterization of product buying cycles for various products or categories is obtained from a third party. Further an individual consumer may have individualized buying habits stored in database that differ from the typical buying cycle. Consumer actions are monitored and assessed in comparison with various consumption phase patterns to predict the location in a buying cycle in behavioral profiler . In one embodiment the behavioral profiler further modifies the purchasing timeframe estimation using the output of the BPS profiler and the user profiler to combine the consumer s personalized buying habits stored in a BPS s typical buying cycle stored in and detected consumer actions stored in to refine the prediction of the consumer s purchasing intentions and timeframe.

Advertisers or marketers ultimately seek to identify consumers heading toward a purchase and to steer the consumer to an advertised product. However the interim marketing goals of an advertiser can vary considerably and different advertisers with differing marketing materials and methods are willing to pay differing rates for realization of differing goals. One or more attributes of an advertiser and advertising campaign are determined in advertiser profiler and stored in database . In one embodiment a measure of the fulfillment of each marketing goal is also stored in database . In one embodiment marketing messages are also stored in database . Alternatively a measure of the fulfillment of each marketing goal may be determined or maintained in account manager or obtained from advertisers suppliers or external accounting service providers and stored in database . In one embodiment advertiser profiler may also determine one or more relative priorities of advertisers to be stored in advertiser profile database . In one embodiment an advertiser profile also contains one or more ratings of current network conditions such as monetization goals content obligations network traffic conditions or trends and a desired user experience.

Attributes of publishers may also affect the selection of appropriate consumers products advocates experts and marketing materials. Typically an advertiser targets certain publications and attributes of potential publishers may be stored in advertiser profile database . Alternatively a publisher profiler not shown characterizes and updates attributes of publishers stored in a publisher database not shown . A publisher database may contain one or more attributes related to publisher obligations fulfillment of publisher goals publisher marketing materials publisher network conditions qualified publisher advocates and experts and so on.

In various embodiments a search is performed to determine a set of best three way matches made between a BPS a consumer and an advocate. The best matches are determined by searching one or more databases to determine profiles with favorably weighted attributes. In one embodiment database matcher receives a service request including one or more weighting functions and an identification of one or more databases to search from context evaluator . In response database matcher determines and provides identification of the best matches.

In various embodiments direct one click communication between a consumer and an advocate often results in the most successful three way marketing match. In an example embodiment a representation of an advocate is displayed in proximity to a marketing message on a web page. By using a computer s pointing device such as a computer mouse an interested consumer is able to move a screen cursor to position it over the representation of the advocate. In one embodiment the representation of the advocate is instrumented to provide that a single click of the mouse button initiates communication between the consumer and the advocate as facilitated by communication manager . In a further embodiment communication manager accesses the database of user profilers and the database of advocate profiles to determine a default or preferred means of communication suitable to both parties. In a typical implementation a default means of communication is by Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP but communication may be established through any convenient means including one or more of communication by instant messaging text instant messaging audio visual instant messaging direct phone dialing the Short Message Service SMS protocol or e mail communication. In a preferred embodiment the communications manager allows each party to retain communication anonymity if desired. Communications activity and consumption activity completed through such communications are logged in database .

The system is designed to facilitate marketing and consumption of products. Account manager tracks matching and marketing activity and associated consumption activity and stores logs of the activities in database . In one embodiment the account manager further determines the enhanced value of marketing with supplied advocacy as described further below. In a further embodiment the account manager updates client accounts bills various system customers maintains various account receivables and determines distribution of a revenue stream. In one embodiment a portion of the receivables stream is dedicated to providing various marketing incentives including payments for experts and non monetary incentives for advocates as described further below.

As indicated above the marketing system provides one or more three way matches between a consumer a brand product or service BPS and an advocate. In a typical use of the system two of the three parties to a three way match are provided and a marketing system server provides the identification of one or more third parties. In one embodiment the third party may be obtained through the server Application Programming Interface API . The server API may be used to access of modify the functionality of any of the third party servers including one or more of the BPS server the prospect server the advocate server the consumer server and the influencer server .

The BPS server is used to search for and access one or more attributes of a consumable good such as a marketed brand product or service BPS . In a typical use of the BPS server the identification of a pair of users is provided in a service request and the BPS server responds with the identification of one or more brands products or services likely to benefit from marketing with personalized advocacy. As mentioned above a consumer may be qualified as an advocate or further qualified as an expert with regard to a specific BPS. In order to make a successful match at least one of the users must be qualified as a BPS advocate or expert.

When each user is qualified to act as an advocate for one or more products the question arises as to which user should be regarded as the advocate and which should be regarded as the consumer. In one embodiment a service request to the BPS server includes an identification of the user to be regarded as the advocate and a search is performed among all brands products and services qualified for advocacy by said user to find the BPS likely to provide the greatest marketing benefit with regard to the other consuming user. In an alternate or augmented embodiment each user is regarded as a potential advocate and a search is performed among all qualified brands products and services for either user as advocate to find the BPS likely to provide the greatest marketing benefit to the other consuming user. In the alternate embodiment a service request response identifies the BPS and the user to be considered the advocate.

With each prospective match of a consumer advocate and BPS an estimate of the match value is determined using the context evaluator the database matcher and the various databases and as discussed further below. The match values associated with various matches are sorted and one or more matches with the highest match values are considered the best.

The advocate server is used to search for and access one or more attributes of a marketing advocate. In a typical use of the advocate server the identification of a consumer and a BPS is provided in a service request and the advocate server responds by providing the identification of one or more advocates likely to successfully promote consumption of the BPS. With each prospective match of a consumer advocate and BPS an estimate of the match value is determined using the context evaluator the database matcher and the various databases and as discussed further below. The match values associated with various matches are sorted and one or more matches with the highest match values are considered the best.

The consumer server is used to search for and access one or more attributes of consumers. In a typical use of the consumer server the identification of an advocate and a BPS is provided in a service request and the consumer server responds by providing the identification of one or more consumers likely to be motivated by personalized advocacy of the BPS. With each prospective match of a consumer advocate and BPS an estimate of the match value is determined using the context evaluator the database matcher and the various databases and as discussed further below. The match values associated with various matches are sorted and one or more matches with the highest match values are considered the best.

In a typical use of the prospect server the identification of an advocate and a BPS is provided in a service request and the prospect server responds by providing the identification of one or more users likely to be motivated to consider consumption of the BPS. With each match of a prospect advocate and BPS an estimate of the match value is determined. The match values associated with various matches are sorted and one or more matches with the highest match values are considered the best.

In a typical use of the influencer server the identification of a BPS is provided in a service request and the influencer server responds by providing the identification of one or more groups of users likely to be motivated to consider consumption of the BPS and for each group one or more advocates likely to influence the group. With each prospective match of a group advocate and BPS an estimate of the match value is determined. The match values associated with various matches are sorted and one or more matches with the highest match values are considered the best.

In the context of a computer network terminology a server is sometimes referred to as a virtual server. A virtual server is physically one or more server systems connected to the network and support circuitry to execute application programs for processing data. Data may be stored by means which facilitate efficient processing such as by storing the data in a database consisting of a collection of data organized by relationships between the various forms of data contained therein. When a virtual server consists of more than one computer server system the set of computer server systems is interconnected hierarchically to perform high level functions as combined functions of several servers under central control.

Functionally a virtual server executes a sequence of low level CPU commands to complete instructions for processing data. A virtual server typically accepts instructions and executes commands for a multitude of clients . The instructions may include but are not limited to instructions to store or retrieve data to modify verify or erase data or to reorganize data. A virtual server may also initiate instructions for other network attached devices. For example a virtual music server might maintain a database to locate a library of musical compositions. The music server might receive commands to store new songs or retrieve old ones from a number of clients. Further the music server might send commands to other devices on the network e.g. to disseminate the musical database among various subservient servers such as a jazz server a hip hop server a classical server and so on to register paying user requests in a billing server to verify the identity preferences and access privileges of a user in a registration server and so on. The music server may therefore also be a client of other servers. Practitioners of the art will recognize that virtual servers and clients are abstract interactive devices controlled by software instructions whose interaction protocols may be flexibly defined. A client as used herein may include functionally to process information and programs as well as to issue commands. Similarly a virtual server as used herein may include functionally to initiate commands to users and other servers as well as to respond to instructions.

Similarly a database should not be construed to be a single physical collection of data. As used herein a database is an abstract collection of data and may be distributed over one or more physical locations. Said data may be stored physically within a single or multiple servers within attached physical device s network attached device s or user devices s . Similarly an application program should not be construed to be a single physical collection of commands. As used herein an application program is an abstract collection of CPU commands which may be physically executed in whole or in part within a single or multiple servers within attached physical devices s within network attached device s or within user device s .

In a preferred implementation the matching system operates by estimating a set of essential quantities reflecting pair wise relationships in the three way match. For example in a preferred embodiment user A and advocate B have a social relationship based on some commonality of experience interests and values. The social relationship may be characterized as having an objective or factual component denoted knowledge in and a subjective or emotional component denoted connection. To signify that the example relationship may not be reflexive user A s knowledge of advocate B is denoted knowledge A B while advocate B s knowledge of user A is denoted knowledge B A . Similarly user A s connection to advocate B is denoted connection A B while advocate B s connection to user A is denoted connection B A and so on. The estimated essential quantities are further combined in a context dependent manner to determine an overall match score or match value.

To estimate the strength of the social relationship between A and B a social strength function combines the essential estimated quantities. In a preferred implementation the essential social strength quantities include an estimate of social knowledge and social connection. In one implementation each essential quantity is rated on a scale from negative one to positive one assigned a weighting factor on a scale from negative one to positive one and the social strength is determined as a weighted sum of the product of the rated factors. In a preferred embodiment a set of weighting factors for each context combining a marketing context and a phase of a buying cycle is determined and stored. For example in a generalized market survey a consumer typically gives greater weight to fact gathering whereas in a potential sales closing with an advocate the consumer typically gives greater weight to intangible emotional aspects of the relationship with the advocate such as trust in the advocate. This change in consumer focus is reflected by using a set of weighting factors giving greater weight to knowledge in an early buying cycle and greater weight to connection in a later buying cycle.

In an alternate embodiment each of the attributes of A and B are quantized. Attributes are then partitioned into groups affecting essential estimated quantities. For example a social strength may be further characterized as having two components attributes reflecting potential common knowledge and attributes reflecting potential common connection. By correlating the common knowledge attributes of A and B a common knowledge score is computed. By correlating the common connection attributes of A and B a common connection score is computed. The social strength is computed by combining the component scores. In one implementation the social strength is a sum of component scores. In an alternate implementation the essential estimated quantities are thought of as occupying orthogonal dimensions and the social strength is a Euclidean distance or L2 norm calculated as a sum of squares of orthogonal essential estimated quantity scores.

In a preferred embodiment the attributes of A and B are combined using a combination of weighting factors differences squared distances and correlation. Attributes are quantized and partitioned into groups affecting essential estimated quantities. Generally user A and advocate B have more in common when they have highly correlated attributes. A weighting factor may be used to ignore or negatively weigh an undesired attribute. However in some marketing efforts it may be desired that the user A and the advocate B have some attributes with a large difference in quantized value such as those characterizing product knowledge. For example in a generalized market survey phase of a buying cycle it may be desired that the advocate have a much greater knowledge of the BPS than the user whereas a knowledgeable consumer about to make a purchase may prefer an advocate with similar knowledge of the product. An example knowledge score Ks for the early buying cycle phase is knowledge knowledge . If the only significance is the magnitude of difference in knowledge an example knowledge score is knowledge knowledge . An example knowledge score for the later buying cycle phase is knowledge knowledge .

Further as mentioned above the scores are weighted to account for marketing context. In one embodiment a marketing contact is classified as a direct contact or an indirect contact. For example a consumer may access marketing material consisting of a banner advertisement for a product motorcycle. The banner ad may be accompanied by an instrumented representation of an advocate which provides a direct one click communication contact to the represented advocate. Alternatively the banner ad may be accompanied by a link to request an indirect contact from an advocate. When the context categories include one or more means of direct indirect contact an advocate profile includes one or more attributes related to the expected marketing value of the advocate in a direct an indirect contact context. Direct and indirect marketing contacts may be further classified and advocate attributes may be correspondingly expanded to account for differing responses in consumer initiated contact and system assisted contact.

In an alternate or augmented embodiment a marketing contact is classified as explicit implicit or probabilistic. For example the banner ad may be accompanied by a single explicit advocate reference such as a representation of a specific named advocate. Alternatively the banner ad may be accompanied by a single implicit advocate reference such as the representation of an otherwise anonymous advocate labeled Service Technician. When the context categories include one or more means of explicit implicit contact an advocate profile includes one or more attributes related to the expected marketing value of the advocate in an explicit implicit context. An example of a probabilistic contact is a banner ad accompanied by two or more representations of competing advocates any of which may be selected by the consumer. The expected marketing value of an individual advocate is a product of a the probability that the advocate is selected by the consumer and b the conditional expected marketing value of the advocate if selected. When the context categories include one or more means of probabilistic contact an advocate profile includes one or more attributes related to the expected marketing value of the advocate in the probabilistic context.

Unit evaluates the essential estimated quantities of the pair wise relationship between user A and advocate B. Two or more essential quantities are estimated denoted f A B where the essential quantity index i equals 1 2 and so on. The two or more essential quantities included social knowledge score and social connection score.

Unit evaluates the essential estimated quantities of the pair wise relationship between user A and BPS C. Two or more essential quantities are estimated denoted g A B where the essential quantity index i equals 1 2 and so on. The two or more essential quantities include product knowledge score and product purchasing behavior score.

Unit evaluates the essential estimated quantities of the pair wise relationship between advocate B and BPS C. Two or more essential quantities are estimated denoted h A B where the essential quantity index i equals 1 2 and so on. The two or more essential quantities include product knowledge score and product connection score.

The various scores at the outputs of scoring units and pair wise evaluator units are multiplied by weighting factors denoted w w in scaling unit . The weighting factors are obtained from table in response to an identified RuleSet. The weighted scores are combined in adder to create a MatchValue output where a greater MatchValue output indicates a three way match with a greater expected marketing value.

A possible use of a matching estimator contemplated by this invention is in determining a set of best goods to market. An example flowchart for a goods selection algorithm is shown in where it is assumed that two parties of the match user A and user B are fixed and a set of best set of goods to be marketed with user B as the advocate to consumer A is to be determined.

The flowchart consists of a number of sequential steps. The matching process begins in step . In step the user IDs are input to the matching engine. Additionally an advertiser ID if any the publisher ID if any and the context ID if any are input to the process in step . In step the identifiers are used to index the databases to obtain the attributes of related parties to the match. In step the list of matched goods is initialized as an empty list with a list member count of zero.

Steps are a repetitive loop used to process the goods. In a preferred embodiment the entries indexed by user B in database include a list of goods that B is qualified to advocate. In such an embodiment the list of prospect goods from database for BPS C is compared to the list of advertised goods in database in step . If however the list of qualified goods for advocate B is not included in database the database of available goods is checked to see if any qualify as a likely prospect for BPS C in step . If there is an unprocessed good that is being advertised and that user B is qualified to advocate the unprocessed good is processed in step . In step the good is processed to determine a MatchValue score and the BPS identifier and associated MatchValue score are added to the match list. Steps and are repeated to see if there is another unprocessed good that is being advertised and that user B is qualified to advocate and if so to continue scoring and adding the good s . The loop continues until all such goods are exhausted at which point step proceeds to step .

In step the number of matches in the list is checked. If the count of list members is zero no good was found in the search an error message is generated in step and the process terminates in step . Otherwise the match list is non empty and the list of matching goods is sorted according to MatchValue in step . Step determines how the sorted list is to be further processed. In threshold mode all matches with a MatchValue exceeding a threshold T are identified as best goods in step and the process terminates in step . Otherwise it is assumed that up to N best goods are desired where N is a positive integer. In this mode the top N scoring goods in the matched list are identified in step and the process terminates in step .

The previous section discusses an example method of finding best advocates for a three way match. In this section the actual and added value of advocacy in a three way match is determined. is an example signal flow chart to reflect a method of determining these quantities. The AddedValue output of is also used to provide adaptive matching in an alternative embodiment discussed further below. As discussed further below the quantities determined in may be determined by a number of sub processes dispersed in time. Each processing block of is assumed to operate as an independent process with inputs tagged as necessary to maintain the integrity and time alignment of the indicated signal flow.

In it is assumed that a consuming user A and an advocating user B are input to the marketing system. In block a BPS C with a qualifying match score is determined. This good may be determined as a member of the match list of the example matching process of . In an alternative embodiment a user identifier for BPS C is supplied by a representative of one of the parties or a third party. In block the marketing value of marketing materials with and without additional advocacy is estimated. In a preferred embodiment the MatchValue output of represents the expected monetary value of the marketing materials with advocacy by advocate B. The MatchValue output from block is scaled if necessary not shown to represent this expected monetary value.

In block the expected value of the marketing materials without advocacy is also estimated or determined. In a typical environment the marketing material is an advertisement placed within a web page. In one embodiment the value of the advertisement without advocacy is determined by repeatedly running the ad without accompanying advocacy tracking commercial activity in relation to the ad and accumulating a measure of the average economic value. For example a product manufacturer may be willing to pay ten cents per click on a banner advertisement to a service provider. The service provider instruments the advertisement to record and account for each click on the ad and determines the average value per placed ad without advocacy. In an alternate or augmented embodiment the service provider estimates the value of one or more advertisements without advocacy using statistics for similar advertisements in similar product categories and similar contexts. The value of the marketing materials without advocacy is denoted WithoutValue at the output of block .

In block there is a check to see if there is a reason to provide advocacy because of an increase in expected marketing value with advocacy. If not the marketing materials are placed without advocacy and no further processing of advocacy value is required.

If there is an expected increase in marketing value the marketing materials are augmented to provide user B as a marketing advocate to consuming user A. The marketing materials are preferably instrumented to support one click communicative access to advocate B as described above in block . In block the terms of the advocacy contractual arrangement are registered with the account manager . Account manager tracks all commercial activity in relation to the advertisement with advocacy and tracks the actual marketing value of the associated actions. When the marketing campaign has ended for the instrumented marketing materials the accumulated actual marketing value is output as RealValue by block .

Block calculates the added value of the advocacy by subtracting the WithoutValue from the RealValue. The advertising client is billed for the RealValue. The AddedValue represents an augmented revenue stream generated by the advocacy. This added value is available to provide advocacy incentives advocacy costs service provider costs and a reasonable service provider profit for providing advocacy selection and or advocacy accounting support. Block assigns the costs of advocacy to an advocacy sponsor and divides the advocacy revenue to provide advocacy system profit and incentives. In a preferred embodiment monetary incentives are reserved for expert advocates and other advocates receive non monetary incentives.

When two of three parties to a match are known the relationship of the known parties is fixed and the pre existing value of the relationship is realized without an advocacy matching system. The value of a prospective third party is essentially determined by the relationships of the third party with each of the known parties. When the third party to be determined is a good the advocate s relationship with the consumer determines a part of the context of the advocate matching but does not change from one prospective good to the next. Ignoring the pre existing relationship an optimized search for a product is performed by evaluating the relationship of the consumer to the product and the relationship of the advocate to the product. The evaluation is performed in a context dependent manner depending on the consuming user s present relationship with the product as reflected in a behavioral profile of user actions in a characterized product buying cycle.

A first half of an optimized advocate processor is shown in . In raw attributes of advocate B BPS C and user A are input to categorization and quantization blocks . The attributes are categorized into N categories where N is a positive integer and organized and indexed such that the iattribute of user A is the same as the iattribute of user B and so on. In one embodiment each attribute reflects a potential quality of the party and the attributes are quantized positively to reflect the probability that the party possesses the attribute. In cases where it is more probable that the party does not possess the attribute the attribute may be quantized negatively. For example if a designated attribute of a user is that the user has a favorite color of red a quantized value of 0.80 may reflect a probability of 80 that the user s favorite color is red. On the other hand a quantized value of 0.70 may reflect a probability of 70 that the favorite color of the user is a different color such as blue. The similarity between two users in terms of preference for red may be taken as the product of the quantized party attributes for the two users.

In various attributes for any party may be emphasized de emphasized ignored or rejected by weighting the quantized attributes for the party. Filters provide a modified weighting of the quantized attributes of B C and A respectively using a RuleSet determined from context to index three tables of filter weights . The filter weights determine the attribute emphasis or de emphasis required for the marketing context.

The N weighted attributes of user B are denoted x 1 to x N the N weighted attributes of user A are denoted x 4N 1 to x 5N and the N weighted attributes of BPS C are denoted x 2N 1 to x 3N . The weighted attributes of BPS C are further correlated with the weighted attributes of user A to produce N correlated attributes of the relationship of A and C denoted x 3N 1 to x 4N . The correlations are output by multiplier unit . Similarly the weighted attributes of BPS C are further correlated with the weighted attributes of advocate B to produce N correlated attributes of the relationship of C and B denoted x N 1 to x 2N output by multiplier unit . The 5N outputs of are further processed in .

In the estimated value of advocacy is determined as a weighted sum of the 5N outputs of . The tap weights w 1 to w 5N are dependent on the marketing context. Multiplexer has L different sets of tap weights as input with 5N tap weights in each set and a select control input. Examples sets of input tap weights are denoted . The output of is a set of weights as determined by a ContextSelection input which selects one of the L tap weight sets as w 1 to w 5N . Each tap weight w i is multiplied by the corresponding ioutput of x i in multiplier unit . Adder adds the outputs of the multipliers to output an estimated value of the advocacy. In one embodiment the EstimatedValue output may be used as an alternative to the MatchValue output of .

In a further augmentation of the embodiment the system adapts the tap weights to refine the predicted advocacy value to better track actual value. Recall that in the output AddedValue reflects the additional value realized by the provided advocacy. This AddedValue output of is input to block of which determines the difference between the EstimatedValue and the AddedValue. The difference error is attributed to estimation error and random system perturbations. The error is scaled by a small quantity epsilon in multiplier . Units and are example adaptation units for tap weights w 1 and w 5N . A similar adaptation unit is provided for each tap weight. The output of multiplier is correlated with the inputs to the EstimatedValue filter at the time of estimation in multipliers . To align the inputs of the adaptation unit the quantities x 1 to x 5N may have to be stored for later processing after the AddedValue has been determined. The output of the multipliers is a small adjustment to the tap weight w 1 or w 5N . The adjustment to tap weight w 1 is accomplished in adder while the adjustment to tap weight w 5N is accomplished in adder .

If the attributes of a consumer advocate relationship are thought of as contributing a subjective emotion based component to marketing decisions the adaptability of provides a distinct advantage. A consumer who develops a relationship with an advocate is likely to change subjective components of the advocate evaluation based on the accumulated results of marketing contacts with the advocate. An adaptive system learns the time varying weights given to various attributes and adjusts them accordingly.

As indicated above one or more of the processes of and as well as one or more of the processes of discussed below may be performed by specialized signal processing hardware or may be performed using a general purpose computer implementing a sequence of software steps. The processing may incorporate one or more steps performed on a user s computer system a client system and one or more steps performed on a service provider s computer system a server system . Server and client systems described herein can be implemented by a variety of computer systems and architectures. illustrates suitable components in an exemplary embodiment of a general purpose computer system. The exemplary embodiment is only one example of suitable components and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the configuration of components be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of a computer system. The invention may be operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computer system environments or configurations.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so forth which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention may include a general purpose computer system . Computer system accesses one or more applications and peripheral drivers directed to a number of functions described herein. Components of the computer system may include but are not limited to a CPU or central processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . As used by those skilled in the art a signal bus refers to a plurality of digital signal lines serving a common function. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include the Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus the Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus the Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus the PCI Express bus PCI X and the Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus.

An operating system manages the operation of computer system including the input and output of data to and from applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the applications being executed on the system and the components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is a Windows 95 98 NT XP Vista Mobile operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as an OS X operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a UNIX operating system or a LINUX operating system.

The computer system may include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media. For example computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile computer storage media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk ROM CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape cassettes magnetic tape hard magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices floppy disk storage devices magnetic diskettes or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by the computer system .

Communication media may also embody machine readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For instance communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared cellular networks and other wireless media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up is typically stored in ROM and other non volatile storage such as flash memory. Additionally system memory may contain some or all of the operating system the application programs other executable code and program data . Memory typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by CPU . Optionally a CPU may contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses.

The computer system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only and not by way of limitation illustrates a bulk storage unit that reads from or writes to one or more magnetic disk drives of non removable nonvolatile magnetic media and storage device that may be an optical disk drive or a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable a nonvolatile storage medium such as an optical disk or a magnetic disk. Other computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary computer system includes removable or non removable media and volatile or nonvolatile storage. The storage media includes but is not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. Bulk storage and the storage device may be connected directly to the system bus or alternatively may be connected through an interface such as storage controller shown for bulk storage . Storage devices may interface to computer system through a general computer bus such as or may interconnect with a storage controller over a storage optimized bus such as the Small Computer System Interface SCSI bus the ANSI ATA ATAPI bus the Ultra ATA bus the FireWire IEEE 1394 bus or the Serial ATA SATA bus.

The storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions executable code data structures program modules and other data for the computer system . For example bulk storage is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other executable code and program data . As mentioned previously data and computer instructions in may be transferred to system memory to facilitate immediate CPU access from processor . Alternatively processor may access stored instructions and data by interacting directly with bulk storage . Furthermore bulk storage may be alternatively provided by a network attached storage device not shown which is accessed through a network interface .

A user may enter commands and information into the computer system through the network interface or through an input device such as a keyboard a pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse a trackball a touch pad tablet a controller an electronic digitizer a microphone an audio input interface or a video input interface. Other input devices may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner and so forth. These and other input devices are often connected to CPU through an input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display or other type of video device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a graphics controller and a video interface . In addition an output device such as headphones speakers or a printer may be connected to the system bus through an output interface or the like.

The computer system may operate in a networked environment using a network operably connected to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a terminal a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system . The network depicted in may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or other type of network. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. In a networked environment executable code and application programs may be stored in the remote computer. By way of example and not by way of limitation illustrates remote executable code as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer systems including but not limited to general purpose computer systems based on one or more members of the family of CPUs manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the family of CPUs manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. or the family of ARM CPUs originally designed by Advanced RISC Machines Ltd. as well as any other suitable processor. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the server functionalities described herein may be implemented by a plurality of server sub systems communicating over a backplane.

Various components of computer system may be rearranged deleted or augmented. For example system bus may be implemented as a plurality of busses interconnecting various subsystems of the computer system. Furthermore computer system may contain additional signal busses or interconnections between existing components such as by adding a direct memory access unit not shown to allow one or more components to more efficiently access system memory .

As shown CACHE1 and CPU are packed together as processor module with processor CPU referred to as the processor core. Alternatively cache memories contained in may be separate components on the system bus. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example some embodiments may include a smaller number of CPUs a smaller number of network ports a smaller number of storage devices or a smaller number of input output interfaces. Furthermore computer system may include additional components such as one or more additional central processing units such as storage devices memories or interfaces. In addition one or more components of computer system may be combined into a specialized system on a chip SOC to further system integration. In some computer system environments where component count is critical the entire computer system may be integrated in one or more very large scale integrated VLSI circuit s .

As discussed above in one implementation operations of one or more of the physical server or client systems described herein is implemented as a series of software routines executed by computer system . Each of the software routines comprises a plurality or series of machine instructions to be executed by one or more components in the computer system such as CPU . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as bulk storage . However the series of instructions may be stored in an EEPROM a flash device or a DVD. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote computer or a server on a network via network interface .

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations thereof. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and claims hereafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations as are within their true spirit and scope.

