---

title: System and method for managing a broadband network
abstract: A process for managing usage on a broadband network, said process comprising: (a) monitoring a subscriber's broadband usage; (b) determining if said usage rises to a level indicative of an event; (c) determining if said event is consistent with heavy usage or with a security incident; (d) if said event is consistent with heavy usage, offering said subscriber at least one of a plan for an upgraded subscription, or an incentive to concentrate usage in nonpeak time; and (e) if said event is consistent with a security incident, exercising security measures to minimize unintended usage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762517&OS=08762517&RS=08762517
owner: Comcast Cable Communications, LLC
number: 08762517
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081230
---
The present invention relates generally to a system and method for managing bandwidth on a broadband network and more specifically to a system and method for optimizing network configuration and subscriber usage based on subscriber usage patterns.

In a broadband service provider network subscribers share a common network infrastructure but subscribers consume network bandwidth at significantly differing rates. For example the top 1 of subscribers may consume 15 of the total consumed network bandwidth per month the top 5 may consume 35 and the top 12 may consume 50 . Therefore during peak traffic loads a relatively small percentage of subscribers may generate network traffic that negatively impacts all subscribers served by the same network infrastructure.

One solution to this problem is to measure subscriber network consumption and curtail subscribers using exceptional traffic volume. Such an approach however has significant shortcomings. For example some heavy network consumers may be willing to pay for the privilege of exceptional traffic volume perhaps through a higher monthly recurring charge or through variable usage charges based on monthly consumption. Alternatively some heavy network consumers might be willing to consume most of their bandwidth during non peak traffic times in which their higher usage would have little impact.

While some subscribers consume bandwidth willingly others do so unknowingly as a result of their terminal being infected with a virus or malware. The conventional solution for an infected terminal transmitting a large volume of emails or consuming inordinate bandwidth is to prevent the subscriber from accessing the network. Again this solution tends to be heavy handed. This solution makes it difficult to remediate the computer or even periodically check on it to see if the problem has been rectified. This leaves the subscriber on his own to remedy the situation typically without the use of the Internet or other online help.

Therefore a need exists to more effectively manage bandwidth not only to provide reliable service for the subscribers at large but also to meet the needs of the relatively few high usage subscribers. The present invention fulfills this need among others.

The present invention provides a system and process that integrates existing administrative security management and network configuration functionality of a broadband network while monitoring subscriber usage using existing data gathering components to optimize network configuration and to moderate usage thereby improving network performance not only for the subscribers at large but also for the relatively few high usage subscribers.

By way of background applicants have identified that the network configuration administration e.g. billing provisioning and security management functions have been typically viewed as independent systems in a broadband service provider network. For example network capacity management leverages projections of numerical subscriber growth as well as network traffic growth in order to anticipate the requirements for broadband network expansion. Individual subscribers are typically provisioned without direct coordination with network capacity projections. Additionally when security management detects that a subscriber computer has been compromised by malware there is minimal coordination with provisioning except perhaps for manual processes to block outbound SMTP traffic or to take the subscriber offline. In the situations mentioned above the network configuration tends to be managed independently.

In contrast the present invention provides for the automated coordination of network functions such as network configuration administrative and security management through an architecture referred to herein as the Network Control System. The network control system also uses various and preferable existing sources of network usage information to collect data on subscriber usage. By coordinating these functions while monitoring subscriber usage the network control system can moderate usage by charging subscribers premiums for high usage and promoting off peak service. The network control system can also signal the network and or related administrative systems such as billing provisioning to modify the network s configuration to enable accounting for exceptional subscriber network usage or to modify the subscriber s network usage for security and or overall network performance.

The present invention provides for a number of innovative broadband services that leverage the analysis and processing capabilities of the network control system. For example high usage subscribers may receive offers for short term upgrades in network speed dependent on their recent usage patterns and on the current available capacity of the broadband access network. To this end the network control system may also allocate additional network capacity e.g. new DOCSIS service flows or additional QAMs for premium subscribers with heavy network traffic.

Furthermore some subscribers may receive incentives to concentrate most of their network consumption during non peak traffic times. The service provider is motivated to provide incentives to this group of subscribers because their non peak time network consumption minimizes the incremental capital spending on network infrastructure. The capital spending tends to be driven by the capacity required for peak time network consumption.

Additionally the network control system may recognize that a subscriber suffers from an infected computer participating as a zombie in a botnet by detecting abnormal network traffic via Intrusion Detection Systems. In response the network control system may re provision the subscriber s broadband access into a quarantine state which enables perhaps limited subscriber Internet access while the computer security issue is remedied.

Accordingly one aspect of the present invention is a process for optimizing network configuration and moderating usage on a broadband network by integrating network configuration administrative and security functions while monitoring usage. In one embodiment the process comprises a monitoring a subscriber s broadband usage b determining if the usage rises to a noteworthy level indicative of an event c determining if the event is consistent with heavy usage or with a security incident d if the event is consistent with heavy usage offering the subscriber at least one of a plan for an upgraded subscription or an incentive to concentrate usage in nonpeak time and e if the event is consistent with a security incident exercising security measures to minimize unintended usage.

Another aspect of the present invention is a network control system for optimizing network configuration and moderating usage on a broadband network by integrating the network configuration administrative and security management functions. In one embodiment the network control system comprises a a monitoring component configured for capturing network usage data and analyzing the data to identify events and trends b a controller component configured for receiving an event generated from the monitoring component processing the event according to the trends business rules and subscriber information and generating a response and c a communication component configured to facilitate inter component communication including reacting to the response by signaling a network configuration system an administrative system or a security system to effect at least one of offering the subscriber an upgraded subscription offering the subscriber an incentive to concentrate usage in nonpeak time or exercising security measures to minimize unintended usage of the subscriber.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a network comprising the network control system described above.

Referring to an embodiment of a control system of the present invention is shown. The system comprises a monitoring component a communication component and a controller component . Specifically the monitoring component interfaces with at least one usage data gathering system associated with the network . The monitoring component is configured to receive and analyze data from the data gathering system to determine if the data is consistent with an event of high usage and if so to transmit an event signal to the controller component via the communication component . The controller component is configured to receive the event signal and determine if such an event indicates a need to initiate at least one of the following responses modify the subscriber s bandwidth offer the subscriber an upgraded service plan incentivize the subscriber to concentrate usage in nonpeak times or determine if the subscriber s terminal is infected. To this end the controller component interfaces with a network configuration system an administrative system and a security management system via the communication component . The network configuration component is configured to modify the network to increase or decrease available bandwidth to a subscriber in response to a signal from the controller component via the communication component . The administrative system is configured to offer the subscriber associated with the event incentives to change subscription plans for increased bandwidth or to concentrate use to non peak times in response to a signal from the controller component . The security management system is configured to execute protective measures in response to a signal from the controller component . This protective measures may involve for example quarantining the subscriber from the network restricting usage and or heightened monitoring of usage.

The different embodiments and the components of the system are discussed in detail below with respect to the schematic of . It should be understood however that this schematic is provided for illustrative purposes only and the system and process of the present invention may be practiced in ways not specifically shown in . For example although certain components and systems are depicted as single entities this is done for illustrative purposes only. Their functionality may be distributed among multiple components or consolidated in just one. For example the monitoring component may be integrated with the controller component likewise the controller component may be distributed among different computers components. Furthermore the various components and systems described herein may comprise any known or later developed discrete or networked computer s having one or more processors memory and an input output functionality and being particularly configured to execute the function s for which it is intended to perform. Additionally it should be understood that the various components shown in are not necessarily housed in a common area or even operated by a common entity i.e. the various components may be operated by different companies and interfaced together. Therefore the schematic of system should not be used to limit the structure of the system more narrowly than the claims.

The operation of the network control system is described with reference to the flow chart disclosed in . In step subscriber usage is monitored using for example the data gathering system mentioned with respect to . In step a determination is made by the monitoring component that the usage is indicative of an event such as an inordinate amount of downloading uploading or email transmission activity. If an event is detected a signal is transmitted to the controller component in step which determines if the event is consistent with typical heavy subscriber network usage. To this end in one embodiment the monitoring component detects unusual activity across a plurality of subscribers and then the process proceeds to the controller component in which a determination is made whether a single subscriber s activity is unusual. If the activity of a subscriber is determined to be unusual the process proceeds to step in which a determination is made whether the subscriber service plan is optimized to its usage. If so the inquiry ends in step . If the service plan is not optimized then the process proceeds to step in which the controller component interfaces with the administrative system via the communication component to offer the subscriber an enhanced subscription plan for higher usage or an incentive to concentrate usage during off peak times. Depending on whether the offer is accepted the controller component may instruct the network configuration system to curtail or expand the subscriber s bandwidth or access to the network in step . Alternatively the controller component may determine that an optimized service plan is not available e.g. the network lacks the necessary capacity and proceed directly to step .

Returning to step if the event is not consistent with normal high usage or historical usage security measures are implemented. The implementation of the security measures can vary. In the embodiment depicted in flow chart the process proceeds to step in which a determination is made by the controller component whether the usage is indicative of a problem such as a virus. If so the process proceeds to step in which the controller component signals the security management system via the communication component to quarantine the subscriber in step . This quarantine may involve for example limiting bandwidth or otherwise limiting access to the internet or it may involve isolating the subscriber completely. If the usage is determined not to be indicative of misuse in step the process proceeds to step in which an investigation into the anomaly is conducted. This investigation may include for example automated network protocol analysis using a security management system or a telephone call to the subscriber. If the results of this investigation indicate that the event is indicative of misuse the process proceeds to step as described above. If however the investigation results show no impropriety the inquiry is terminated in step .

Referring now to the present invention is described in terms of a cable based broadband service provider network. It should be understood however that the present invention is not limited to a cable based networks and can be practiced with fiber optic telephony e.g. DSL or other broadband networks. In referring to this embodiment the following acronyms are used to describe the system components and methods 

Referring to one embodiment of the network control system is shown integrated into a broadband network . The core components in the network control system process analyze and act on sources of information about network usage. The system comprises a monitoring component which in this embodiment is a Data Reduction and Analysis component . It accepts network usage information from the data sources normalizes the network usage information as appropriate e.g. bandwidth consumption may be obtained from various data sources such as IPDR or SNMP messaging volume from Radius or Diameter and malicious activities may be reported by IDS devices or Syslog captures the network usage information in storage and analyzes the network usage information for immediate network events as well as short term and long term trends. One exemplary immediate event may be that a broadband subscriber device is attempting to attack a critical network server. On the other hand an exemplary long term trend may be an estimate of time duration of the peak traffic period for a particular broadband access network.

Both immediate events and short term and long term trends are reported to the controller component which in this embodiment is a Control System Orchestration component . The Control System Orchestration component processes the events received from the Data Reduction and Analysis component according to configured business rules and subscriber information. In a Service Oriented Architecture the Control System Orchestration component may be realized as an orchestration server or a BPM Business Process Management server. The Control System Orchestration may obtain subscriber information from the Subscriber Datastore component including the association of cable modems to subscribers the subscriber email address and instant messaging identity and the broadband services purchased by the subscriber.

The business rules may direct the Control System Orchestration to do any one or more of the following to ignore the incoming event to notify the subscriber of unusual network usage to change the subscriber s provisioned bandwidth to bill the subscriber based on incremental network consumption or to modify the network to provide additional capacity.

It may be useful in some circumstances e.g. critical network security breach for events to bypass the Data Reduction and Analysis component and to be processed immediately by the Control System Orchestration component.

Communication among the components of the network control system and the other components of the network is facilitated by the communication component which in the embodiment of is the Enterprise Service Bus ESB component . See e.g. Chappell D. Enterprise Service Bus 2004. It links many of the components of the network control system using XML messaging using for example message oriented middleware MOM which is also common in a Service Oriented Architecture. New components can be easily added to the Enterprise Service Bus using web services APIs or the Java Connector Architecture JCA . Messages can be multicast to multiple components on the ESB. For example an Administrative Subscriber Interface may track and display all inbound events from the Data Reduction and Analysis component as well as all actions taken by the network control system Orchestration component if that feature is desired.

The PCMM Application Management component may be used by an end user or a network management system to request QoS based services from the PCMM Policy Server component . See e.g. CableLabs PacketCable Multimedia Specification PKT SP MM I04 080522 2008. The QoS based service request may flow from the PCMM Application Management component to the PCMM Policy Server component through the Enterprise Service Bus component . This enables the network control system particularly the Control System Orchestration component to have visibility into subscriber requests for QoS based services and perhaps to allow or disallow said requests based on the current usage of the subscriber and on any current security incidents.

The network control system may use various components as well as others via the ESB to act on the business rules configured in the Control System Orchestration component . For example a Messaging Presence component may be used to inform the subscriber of unusual network usage activity and any subsequent account modification via email instant messaging voicemail etc. The presence functionality may be used to determine whether a subscriber is currently online or available by phone so that a customer care agent may contact the subscriber in person.

A Billing component may be used in a variety of ways such as to upgrade the subscriber account to a higher bandwidth consumption tier to post charges for exceeding a monthly consumption limit or to suspend or close a subscriber account e.g. because of intentionally malicious subscriber network behavior .

A Provisioning component may be used in a variety of ways such as to re provision network service to a different bandwidth tier or to block outbound SMTP traffic e.g. via the DOCSIS configuration file .

A QoS Policy Propagation via BGP QPPB component may be used to signal routers and about special handling of subscriber traffic. For example QPPB component may be used for router based rate limiting of subscriber traffic targeted to a known infected computer and for the redirection of subscriber network traffic to a security appliance to screen out inbound botnet command and control traffic.

A PCMM PacketCable MultiMedia Policy Server component may be used to signal an edge router e.g. a DOCSIS CMTS to create a subscriber service flow with specific bandwidth management characteristics. See e.g. CableLabs PacketCable Multimedia Specification PKT SP MM 104 080522 2008. The service flow may be configured to impact all subscriber traffic or only a portion of subscriber traffic based on for example IP addresses and TCP UDP ports .

An ERM Edge Resource Manager component shown integrated with the PCMM component may be used for the management of downstream QAM channels on a Universal Edge QAM device as part of a Modular CMTS architecture. See e.g. CableLabs Edge Resource Manager Interface Specification CM SP ERMI I03 081107 2008. The Universal Edge QAM device enables the delivery of DOCSIS data and MPEG video over the cable Hybrid Fiber Coax HFC network. With respect to the network control system the ERM may be used to enable the allocation of additional DOCSIS QAM channels in the HFC network in the presence of heavy Internet traffic.

It should be appreciated that the functionality of the network configuration system administration system and security system disclosed in are distributed over the systems mentioned above.

The interaction of the network control system with network elements in a cable broadband network is now considered. DOCSIS CMTS supplies JPDR records to the data sources enabling SNMP to collect bandwidth and subscriber network usage information for the network control system. The security appliances capture unusual subscriber network usage information e.g. participation as a zombie in a botnet as another potential source of data for the network control system . These various sources of data are processed by the Data Reduction and Analysis component which generates a notice of network usage events transmitted over the Enterprise Service Bus component for the Control System Orchestration component . The Control System Orchestration component applies business rules to the notice of network usage events and leverages the QPPB PCMM Policy Server and ERM components to affect the subscriber network experience.

In the context of security management QPPB may be used for router based traffic shaping and for the redirection of inbound subscriber traffic from a backbone router or regional router to a security appliance or respectively for malware mitigation instead of forwarding that traffic to the next router or respectively.

PCMM component may be used to increase or decrease the effective DOCSIS network bandwidth for the subscriber without the reset of the DOCSIS cable modem or change the traffic priority. The ERM may be used to allocate additional DOCSIS QAM channels as required for optimal network performance.

As mentioned above the network control system of the present invention facilitates a number of functions including for example 1 dynamic bandwidth reallocation 2 service plan optimization 3 optimization of subscriber usage and 4 enhanced security

There are at least two significant considerations in the dynamic allocation of additional DOCSIS QAM channels. First the broadband service provider needs to supply a pool of spare QAM channels from which to allocate. This is likely to be a serious business challenge since there are many alternative uses for QAM channels such as broadcast linear video analog and digital narrowcast video e.g. video on demand and switched digital and potentially video multiplexes for targeted advertising. The competition for QAM channels may be simplified in the future as broadcast linear video and targeted advertising video streams eventually transition to unicast switched digital video streams at least this narrows the QAM channel conflict between DOCSIS and narrowcast video.

The other consideration is in the largely passive role of the Edge Resource Manager ERM in the Modular CMTS M CMTS architecture according to the interfaces defined in CableLabs Edge Resource Manager Interface Specification CM SP ERMI I03 081107 2008. The Edge QAMs register their resources with the ERM and the M CMTS core initiates the resource transactions with the ERM to request or release a QAM channel. The ERM can detect an Edge QAM failure and the ERM responds to M CMTS resource requests with Edge QAM channel resources possibly leveraging operator dependent policies in the selection process . Therefore with the current M CMTS architecture it appears that the M CMTS core may actively participate in the DOCSIS QAM channel augmentation process. Alternatively new ERMI messages might be defined to signal the availability of additional DOCSIS QAM channel resources to the M CMTS core since the last M CMTS core resource request.

Rather than or in addition to reallocating bandwidth it may be beneficial to modify usage to optimize system performance by offering optimized plans. Some premium broadband subscribers such as commercial organizations or certain residential subscribers may express interest in receiving offers for short term upgrades of additional network bandwidth. An offer may include the proposed bandwidth augmentation and pricing and may be communicated through instant messaging or email via the Messaging Presence component of the network control system . If these premium subscribers accept the offer the broadband access network is re provisioned dynamically via PCMM for higher network bandwidth for a period of time and the subscriber is billed according to the terms of the offer. Otherwise the offer can be ignored or rejected with no penalty although this may be interpreted as a lack of interest for the particular offer. The customer may have access to past offers that were accepted or rejected as well as the ability to view any incremental charges.

In one embodiment the Control System Orchestration component is responsible for determining whether any bandwidth augmentation offers are made and if so which subset of premium subscribers may receive offers at this time depending on the amount of available broadband access capacity .

In order to make effective offers of bandwidth augmentation the network control system should consider several factors. First it should consider the amount of available capacity in the broadband access network. The broadband service provider may want to avoid making such offers if the broadband access network is currently congested. Second it should consider the amount of recent network traffic generated by the premium subscriber. If the subscriber has been generating network traffic close to the maximum bandwidth limit then the subscriber is much more likely to benefit from bandwidth augmentation. Third it should anticipate interest in the offer by the premium subscriber. The subscriber may explicitly communicate interest to the broadband service provider or interest may be inferred by the subscriber s reaction to past broadband augmentation offers.

The Data Reduction and Analysis component may generate events to the Control System Orchestration component based on sustained bandwidth usage by premium subscribers as well as events based on significant changes to the available capacity of the broadband access network e.g. a transition from uncongested to congested network or vice versa .

A subset of potential broadband subscribers such as value conscious consumers with time flexibility may receive incentives from the broadband service provider e.g. a reduced price and or additional packaged services to choose a broadband access service in which they consume most of their traffic volume during non peak traffic times. During non peak traffic times the incentive subscribers may enjoy the flagship bandwidth rate but the subscriber bandwidth may be restricted during peak traffic times. Notice that this is envisioned to be a voluntary service hence the need for subscriber incentives depending on the lower bandwidth during peak traffic times this service may or may not be appropriate for best effort VoIP services. The incentive subscriber may be notified about bandwidth changes for non peak to peak transitions if desired and the subscriber may be offered an upgrade to a premium subscriber service if the bandwidth usage during peak traffic times is consistently at the bandwidth maximum.

This subscriber service is reminiscent of a service industry concept known as yield management . This term is used to describe techniques for the allocation of limited resources among a variety of customers in a manner that optimizes the total revenue or yield. For example the travel industry uses yield management in the allocation of airplane seats and hotel rooms to business travelers and leisure travels. Other examples of yield management include time of use electric metering and mobile phone calling plans with night and weekend rates.

In the case of broadband access networks there is often significant and consistent variation in aggregate network traffic based on the time of day. With respect to a representative CMTS approximately 50 of the CMTS downstream capacity may be consumed at peak e.g. 8 pm local time but at least 70 of CMTS downstream capacity may be available at non peak traffic times e.g. 4 am local time . Network infrastructure expansion is typically driven by congestion during peak traffic periods so additional subscriber traffic during non peak traffic periods is efficient for the broadband service provider with respect to capital spending.

The Data Reduction and Analysis component may generate events to the Orchestration component based on sustained bandwidth usage by incentive subscribers during peak traffic time periods as well as events based on significant aggregate network traffic changes in the broadband access network e.g. a transition from peak traffic to non peak traffic or vice versa .

The Orchestration component may be responsible for determining when to transition incentive subscribers from non peak to peak bandwidth rates and vice versa. The Orchestration component may also determine whether to send flagship upgrade offers to incentive subscribers who may benefit from the flagship bandwidth rate during peak traffic periods.

The quarantine service is designed for the broadband subscriber with security issues caused by involuntary means such as a subscriber with an infected computer participating as a zombie in a botnet. While no subscriber may volunteer to have a computer infected with malware it may be a fairly commonplace occurrence some security experts suggest that between 10 and 25 of all broadband subscriber computers are infected with malware or a virus. Symantec estimates that 10 of all spam zombies in the world are located in the United States. See e.g. Symantec Internet Security Threat Report Trends for January June 7 Volume XII 2007. The goal of this service is to enable perhaps limited subscriber Internet access while the computer security issue is remedied.

The network control system may detect subscriber computer infections automatically through information from the broadband service provider s own Intrusion Detection Systems IDS information obtained from security appliances and or through the analysis of signature network patterns such as unusual coordinated traffic patterns by groups of computers organized in a single botnet . The network control system may also be manually notified of computer infections reported by external entities such as law enforcement agencies.

Regardless of the means of detection the subscriber is notified of the computer infection through instant messaging email and or other communication mechanisms via the Messaging Presence component of the network control system so that the subscriber has visibility and understanding of the security threat and has the information needed to remediate or restore the computer. QPPB may be used for the redirection of inbound subscriber traffic to a security appliance similar to the operation of an IDS for malware network mitigation QPPB may also be used for router based traffic shaping in order to control the aggregate amount of traffic directed to the security appliance. Provisioning of a new DOCSIS configuration file may be used to redirect outbound subscriber traffic to a security appliance to restrict upstream traffic directed to the security appliance and or to block outbound SMTP traffic for a spam zombie infection .

The Control System Orchestration component may be responsible for identifying infected computers and applying appropriate mitigation measures e.g. redirection of subscriber traffic to a security appliance and or blocking of outbound SMTP traffic as well as restoring subscriber service after a computer infection has been remedied.

An important step in the network control system is the data analysis and event generation. As described above a core component of the network control system is the Data Reduction and Analysis component which may detect significant network usage events for processing by the Control System Orchestration component . However the Data Reduction and Analysis component should avoid overwhelming the Control System Orchestration component or Enterprise Service Bus with unnecessary messages. Therefore a key concept for the network control system is to distinguish the rules for determining a network usage event from the rules for processing and reacting to a network usage event.

Referring to the interaction of the rules for determining events and responding to those events is considered. The rules for the determining a usage event by the Data Reduction and Analysis component are based on engineering IT constraints. Specifically data analysts review the raw network usage data from a data repository and the baseline business requirements and use these inputs to build event generation rules for Data Reduction and Analysis in step . Ideally these rules limit the maximum number of a notice of network usage events to the capacity of the Enterprise Service Bus and Control System Orchestration components. The baseline business requirements help the data analysts ensure that all potentially interesting network usage events are generated although some such events will be subsequently ignored by the Control System Orchestration component .

The benefit is that the Control System Orchestration business rules by the business owners may be changed independently of the network usage event rules by the analysts . For example the baseline business requirement may require the generation of an event for each premium subscriber reaching a certain network consumption threshold in a week in order to identify potential candidates for offers to upgrade their network bandwidth. The Control System Orchestration component may implement business rules that process these events and determine the feasibility and prioritization of such offers in particular portions of the broadband access network.

Another key difference between the event generation rules for Data Reduction and Analysis and the business rules for Control System Orchestration is that the event generation rules are preferably although not necessarily programmed as state of the art software e.g. Java or C whereas the business rules are likely although not necessarily to be configured as Business Process Execution Language BPEL logic using off the shelf graphical tools. This enables less technical business owners to build and understand their own Control System Orchestration business rules .

The diagram of shows one possible instantiation of the core components of the network control system architecture. Specifically in step the network usage control system data sources e.g. IPDR IDS etc. transmit data to the network control system . In step data extraction occurs using a data extraction formatting storage software for example VIVID developed for Comcast. VIVID is a real time high volume general data collection and management system with data analysis and archival storage capabilities. The data extraction formatting storage software feeds the Data Analysis and Event Generation component in step which uses data analyst developed event generation rules to generate network usage events described previously.

Once an event is generated in step an event signal is transmitted using the enterprise service bus function in step for control system orchestration in step . In this step the Control System Orchestration component uses the business rules to determine a response to the event.

By implementing the network control system in network the network configuration is optimized while subscribers usage is moderated thereby decreasing latency in the network and reducing the frequency for costly increases in network capacity.

