---

title: Body weight support system and method of using the same
abstract: A body-weight support system that allows individuals with severe gait impairments to practice over-ground walking in a safe, controlled manner is disclosed. The system includes a body-weight support system that rides along a driven trolley and can be controlled in response to the movement of the subject using the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07883450&OS=07883450&RS=07883450
owner: 
number: 07883450
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080514
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 917 830 filed May 14 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. H133E020724 awarded by the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research and Contract Nos. 05090003 and W81XWH 07 1 0624 awarded by the Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center United States Army Medical Research and Material Command.

The present invention relates to a body weight support system. In particular the present invention relates to an improved body weight support system.

Successfully delivering intensive yet safe gait therapy to individuals with significant walking deficits presents the greatest challenges to even the most skilled therapists. In the acute stages of many neurological injuries such as stroke spinal cord injury or traumatic brain injury individuals often exhibit highly unstable walking patterns and poor endurance making it difficult to safely practice gait for both the patient and therapist. Because of this there has been a big push in rehabilitation centers to move over ground gait training to the treadmill where body weight support systems can help minimize falls while at the same time raising the intensity of the training.

Numerous studies have investigated the effectiveness of body weight supported treadmill training and have found that this mode of gait training promotes gains in walking ability similar to or greater than conventional gait training. Unfortunately there is a gap in technologies available on the market for transitioning subjects from training on a treadmill to safe weight supported over ground gait training. Since a primary goal of all individuals with walking impairments is to walk in their homes and in the community rather than on a treadmill it is imperative that therapeutic interventions targeting walking involve over ground gait training.

Some conventional support systems involve training individuals with gait impairments over smooth flat surfaces. However these systems have their limitations. In some systems therapists are significantly obstructed from interacting with the subject particularly their lower legs. For patients that require partial assistance to stabilize their knees and hips or help propel the legs the systems present significant barriers between the patient and the therapist.

In other systems the subject is required to physically drag the cart with them as they ambulate. Accordingly rather than being able to focus on their own balance posture and walking ability the subject is forced to compensate for the dynamics of the cart. For example on a smooth flat surface if the subject stops abruptly the cart can continue to move forward and potentially destabilize the subject. This confounding effect may result in an abnormal compensatory gait strategy that could persist when the subject is removed from the device.

Another problem with some conventional systems is that they only provide static unloading to a subject. That is under static unloading the length of the shoulder straps is set to a fixed length so the subject either bears all of their weight when the straps are slack or no weight when the straps are taught. Static unloading systems have been shown to result in abnormal ground reaction forces and altered muscle activation patterns in the lower extremities. In addition static unloading systems limit the subject s vertical excursions that prevent certain forms of balance and postural therapy where a large range of motion is necessary.

Some conventional systems include a motorized over ground gait trainer. While the trainer is motorized and programmed to follow the subject s movement due to the mechanics of the actuators and overall system dynamics there are significant delays in the response of the system so that the subject has the feeling that they are pulling a heavy bulky cart in order to move a behavior that may destabilize impaired patients during walking. Also the device cannot traverse over ground obstacles such as ascending or descending stairs and rough terrain making it limited to smooth surface gait training.

In another conventional support system there is a limitation on the amount of body weight support that is provided. In such a system the body weight support cannot be modulated continuously but rather is adjusted before the training session begins and is then fixed at that level.

Moreover in some support systems the extent of the vertical travel of the system is limited. As a result subjects cannot be raised from a wheelchair to a standing position thereby restricting the use of the system to individuals with only minor to moderate gait impairments. Also while the trolley of a support system may be fairly light the subject must pull it along the over head rail as they ambulate. As a result the subject will feel the presence of a mass. Furthermore the amount of unloading cannot be adjusted continuously since it requires the operator to manually increase the pressure in the actuator. Finally the system does not monitor and store quantitative data of gait performance e.g. subject s walking speed distance walked etc so tracking improvements in gait is not possible.

Thus there is a need for an improved body weight support system that overcomes the limitations of the systems described above.

The system of the present invention is a novel body weight support system that allows individuals with severe gait impairments to practice over ground walking in a safe controlled manner. This system includes a body weight support system that rides along a driven trolley.

As the subject or individual ambulates the trolley automatically moves forward or backwards staying above the subject so that they only feel a vertical unloading force. Because the system is mounted over head subjects can practice walking on uneven terrain and stairs and subjects can use walking aids such as walkers or canes. In addition since the system can maintain constant rope force under large vertical excursions subjects can practice postural tasks and sit to stand maneuvers.

Furthermore because of the instrumentation of the body weight support system the software tracks the distance walked the walking speed falls prevented and unloading forces within and across multiple sessions. Using the body weight support system individuals with gait impairments can begin practicing walking early after their injuries in a safe controlled manner while their improvements can be tracked over time.

The system according to the present invention is a body weight support system that allows individuals with severe to minor gait impairments to freely practice over ground walking in a safe controlled manner. The system includes an unloading system see that is attached to a driven trolley or movable support that rides along a track which in one implementation can be mounted to a ceiling or other support structure. The track includes straight sections as well as curved paths allowing a subject see to practice walking around and or over obstacles. In various embodiments of the invention the track may include any configuration and any combination of track sections.

As the subject ambulates the trolley automatically moves forward or back staying above the subject so that the subject only feels a vertical unloading force and does not have to drag the mass of the trolley . The system can maintain up to a certain amount of constant rope tension and can provide a certain amount of static unloading. In one embodiment the system can maintain approximately 150 lbs of constant rope tension e.g. constant force range 0 150 lbs and can provide 300 lbs of static unloading. In one embodiment the system has over 12 feet of vertical travel allowing patients to be raised or lowered to the floor or from their wheelchair. In other embodiments the range of travel of the system can vary. In addition in other embodiments the amount of rope tension and static unloading can vary.

Since the system is mounted over head e.g. the trolley rides along a track mounted to the ceiling subjects can practice walking on uneven terrain and steps see and subjects can use walking aids such as walkers or canes. As described below the system also has a user friendly interface see allowing the therapist to fully control the system not only at the control station but also wirelessly through a pocketPC that can be clipped to their belt or other article. This configuration allows the therapist to remain at their patient s side at all times encouraging patient therapist interaction. Furthermore because of the instrumentation of the system the software tracks distance walked walking speed and unloading forces within and across sessions see .

In one embodiment the system has extensive safety features that constantly monitor the status of the patient during training sessions and provide a high level of security to the subject being trained. The subject s vertical height is monitored using the system s instrumentation. In one embodiment if at any time a fall is detected the system automatically adjusts the unloading force so that the subject will descend a minimal distance which in one implementation is not more than four inches. In another embodiment if at any point the vertical height of the subject falls more than four inches or if their vertical speed moves faster than ten inches per second the system automatically switches into a holding mode and prevents the subject from descending. If the desired unloading force moves outside 10 the system also switches into a safe holding mode. In one embodiment both the winch motor and the ball screw or spring motor each of which is described in detail below have fail safe brakes so that in the event of power loss the brakes lock and the subject cannot fall. During perceived falls the trolley also will automatically slow the forward or backward progression of the patient until equilibrium is achieved. Using this system individuals with gait impairments can begin practicing walking early after their injuries in a safe controlled manner.

Referring to an embodiment of the over ground body weight support system according to the present invention is illustrated. show side perspectives of the body weight support system . show subject training over ground and descending stairs respectively.

Referring to the unloading or adjustment system includes a pulley around which a rope passes. Rope can be referred to alternatively as an elongate member. The rope has one end that is coupled to a winch as described below and another end that is coupled to a support assembly such as a harness system or assembly as described below. The support assembly and the elongate member in this example the rope form a suspension system that can be used to support a person or subject. The rope passes around other pulleys A and B that guide the rope toward pulley . The rope passes around pulley and through a pivotally mounted arm that has an upper end A and a lower end B. The function and use of arm is described in detail below with respect to .

Referring to several other portions of the body weight support system are illustrated. In this embodiment the body weight support system includes wheel assemblies and that have wheels coupled thereto and that are pivotally mounted to the trolley . The wheels assemblies and are configured to support the trolley from the track and move along the track . In addition the system includes several festoons only festoons and being shown in that are movably mounted on the track . Each of the festoons and includes rotatably mounted wheels that support the festoons and on the track . Festoons and include support members and respectively coupled thereto that provide support for one or more cables and or wires . The cables and or wires are connected to the electrical system on the trolley and as the trolley moves back and forth along the track the cables and or wires bunch up into loops and the festoons and move along the track as well.

As shown in the lower end of the rope that passes through or proximate to arm is coupled to a support system . The support system includes a support bar from which straps or other members are supported. Coupled to the straps are various clips to which a harness system placed on a subject or patient can be coupled. In different embodiments clips can be replaced by buckles or other similar structures.

Referring to the body weight support system is illustrated in use by a subject walking along a track and walking down stairs. The body weight support system can be used with any track configuration and any combination of obstacles. In one embodiment the body weight support system can be used with a treadmill.

Referring to some of the interface components are illustrated. In particular the user interface see allows a therapist to control all aspects of the system while the device tracks patient performance within and across training sessions see interface of . The user interface allows the therapist to monitor and control all of the features of the system . Large push buttons on a touch screen such as that shown in allow the therapist to raise and lower the patient to start the constant body weight support engage the trolley e.g. have the trolley track the subjects . Data is stored for each training session to monitor improvements in a number of important metrics such as average walking speed level of body weight support rest breaks session time walking time and falls prevented.

In addition to a touch screen user interface the system can also be controlled wirelessly through a pocketPC. This feature allows the therapist to maintain full control over the unloading system at any point along the rail system is a wireless pocketPC interface computer. For example a situation may occur in which after ambulating down the track the subject states that they need more body weight support. Rather than requiring the therapist to run back to the Host Computer to change the body weight support settings which would ultimately compromise the safety of the patient they can simply unclip the pocketPC from their belt and increase the level of support. This in turn sends a wireless signal back to the Host Computer which will adjust the body weight support system settings accordingly.

Referring to the various components of an embodiment of a user interface according to the present invention are illustrated. shows an embodiment of a control panel user interface. As shown a user can adjust the vertical position of a subject and the body weight support provided to a subject. Also a user can control the walking speed of the subject. The particular training mode of operation determines whether the trolley should track the subject e.g. a self paced mode move at a constant speed e.g. a paced mode or hold its position for posture and balance tasks. In addition a user can enable or disable the pocketPC device used by the therapist.

Referring to an embodiment of a training history graphical user interface is illustrated. In this embodiment data related to the walking speed the body weight support the distance walked and the number of breaks taken has been collected and is presented in graphical form for ease of reference by a user or therapist.

The unloading system mounted to the trolley of the body weight support system rides along a track that is mounted to the ceiling of the facility. In one embodiment the track is preferably mounted to the concrete deck in the floor above where the system will be mounted e.g. from a second floor deck if system is to be used on a first floor . The shape of the track can include straight sections as well as curved paths. This configuration or arrangement allows patients to practice walking straight paths as well as around obstacles. Referring to an exemplary track is shown. In this embodiment the track extends from end A to end B and includes several curved sections and several straight sections.

The path that the patient must walk within lies directly beneath the track. In one embodiment the path normally spans approximately two feet in width. The width of the path that the subject walks within is a function of the ceiling height and the amount of unloading force. The complete track is made custom for each facility selected by the facility based on the available space and also preference. For example one facility may choose to have a fifty foot straight section followed by some curves. Another facility may select a twenty five foot straight section only with no curved paths. In one implementation the minimum radius of curvature for the curved sections is approximately two feet.

The trolley rides along the track and allows for forward and backward progression of the subject . The wheels on the trolley are pivoting thereby allowing the system to navigate corners as well as straight sections. In one embodiment the trolley includes pivoting wheel assemblies and that are pivotally mounted to a plate or base. In the embodiment illustrated in a direct current DC motor is mounted between the front and back trolley wheels or wheel assemblies and . In another embodiment a DC motor is mounted to one of the pivoting wheel assembles or . The motor including a gearhead is utilized to drive the system via a motor drive wheel . The terms motor drive and drive mechanism can be used interchangeably herein. As shown in a spring pushes the drive wheel against the bottom of the I beam of the track . In particular the spring pushes a movably mounted bracket to which the motor drive wheel is mounted toward the track. Thus the drive wheel contacts the I beam track beneath the lower flange C as described below .

In this setting the rope of the unloading system hangs down through a pivoting arm and connects to the patient s harness. On the pivoting arm is a sensor or detector that measures the angle of the rope. The terms sensor and detector can be used interchangeably herein. As the subject steps forward this causes the pivoting arm to rotate which is detected by the sensor on the pivoting arm. The trolley motor is turned on driving the trolley forward or backward until the rope is vertical e.g. the patient is directly below the trolley . In this setting the subject does not have to drag the trolley along but instead the trolley automatically tracks the subject e.g. stays directly above them using the motor. The motor can also be used to maintain the trolley in a fixed position along the track if the therapist wants to do postural training and can limit the subject s over ground walking speed if the therapist feels the subject should not walk beyond a particular speed. In this setting the trolley will stay above the subject as long as they walk below a pre set speed. If the subject tries to walk faster the trolley will only move at the pre set speed effectively slowing down the patient s forward progression. The trolley can also be set to move at a constant walking speed where the trolley moves at this selected speed as long as the subject is in front of under or slightly behind the trolley . If the subject lags too far behind the trolley the system assumes that the subject cannot keep up at that speed and the system will stop.

A high resolution sensor that is mounted to one of the wheels on the pivoting wheel assemblies and measures the rotation of the wheel in order to monitor how far the subject has walked and also their walking speed.

In one embodiment the track system includes an I beam that is mounted to the concrete sub floor above the floor where the system will operate e.g. if the system is used on the first floor the beam hangs from the bottom of the second floor deck . The I beam can also be mounted to the building s main beam structures if access to a concrete upper deck is not available. In one embodiment the I beam track can be ceiling mounted as shown in . Some of the features of the track are illustrated in engineering drawings showing mounting details for supporting straight and curved sections of I beam track see and A C . The mounting components can include a steel strut with lateral brace supporting I beam not visible below drop down ceiling see and tubular steel anchors bolted to concrete sub floor see .

Anchors are first placed in the concrete floor above the floor of operation after which long threaded rods are fastened to the anchors see . These threaded rods hang down from the deck to just above the ceiling of system operation and are fastened to box section support brackets see and A C which are schematics of the mounting structure for the I beam track . Threaded studs are welded onto the top of the I beam which extend up through the ceiling and attach to the bottom of the suspended support brackets see . This modular mounting system can accommodate air ducts electrical systems and plumbing lines since the threaded rods that descend from the concrete sub floor can simply be repositioned as necessary. As shown in the track can consist of straight sections as well as curved sections allowing patients the opportunity to practice walking around obstacles.

Referring to two different portions of an I beam being supported are illustrated. The I beam is supported by connectors and such as bolts that are coupled to a box section support member . The box section support member is supported by connectors and that are coupled to support members and that are secured to a support portion such as a concrete ceiling or slab. An angled support can be provided for additional lateral support to the support system. The angled support can be coupled to a box section support member to a support member and or to a bracket . In other embodiments any combination of these components can be used to support a portion of a track .

Referring to a track portion with an I beam configuration is illustrated. In this embodiment the track portion is supported by a box section support member that is fastened to a rail portion . The rail portion is supported by connectors and that are fastened to box section support members and . As shown in a connector can be provided between connectors and for additional support relative to member . Connectors and can be coupled to box section support members not shown in .

Referring to additional features of an embodiment of a track according to the present invention are illustrated. In track includes straight portions and curved portions to form a path from end A to end B. Various braces can be provided for support of the track. The track sections can include mounting holes C see through which connectors can pass. Referring to an embodiment of a track section according to the invention is illustrated. In this embodiment the track section has an I beam configuration with an upper flange A a lower flange C and a middle section B. Channels or areas A or B are formed on opposite sides of the middle section B.

Referring to note that the angled support provides side to side stability for the I beam see . As shown in threaded rods and welded to the I beam stick up through the ceiling tiles and connect to the box section support members hanging from the concrete sub floor. Referring to studs anchored into the concrete sub floor extend out and connect to the top of box section supports. Rods extend from the bottom of these supports down to lower box section supports located just above the ceiling tiles see .

As described above In one embodiment the body weight support system includes a trolley that moves along the track . The trolley of the body weight support system allows subjects to practice walking over ground by rolling along the track as described above. The unloading system that supports the patient is mounted beneath the trolley as described in detail later. Two large pivoting wheel assemblies and allow the trolley to roll along the I beam see . Each wheel assembly includes two large wheels that fit inside the web of the I beam preventing the trolley from moving up or down or having any vertical movement. Small wheels located on the bottom see wheels and sides see wheels of the pivoting wheel assemblies engage the I beam lower flange C prevent the trolley from wobbling or torquing to one side see . The wheel assemblies and pivot allowing the trolley to traverse curves on the I beam see . Referring to small wheels and mounted just outside the lower beam flange C and just below the flange C provide the trolley stability as it moves along the I beam track .

The trolley is actuated by a drive wheel located on one of the two pivoting wheel assemblies and which in turn is connected to a DC motor an exemplary motor is manufactured by Maxon USA see . In an alternative embodiment the drive wheel on the trolley can be located between the two pivoting wheel assemblies. The drive wheel is made of a high durometer rubber to provide adequate traction on the I beam . Heavy duty springs push the drive wheel against the lower flange C of the I beam . The DC motor turns the drive wheel which moves the trolley along the rail or track .

Referring to the unloading rope feeds down to the patient through a pivoting arm where the angle of the arm is measured using a precision potentiometer . The unloading rope is connected to the subject s harness and descends through or proximate to the arm . A computer closely monitors the angle of the pivoting arm relative to a vertical direction by reading the voltage of the potentiometer and if the arm is not vertical such as shown in the computer or controller turns on the trolley motor and drives the trolley either forward or backward in order to make the angle zero e.g. the unloading rope hanging vertical implying the trolley is directly over the subject s head . This adjustment process continues until the arm is again vertical. Thus as the subject walks the rope causes the pivoting arm to pivot which is measured by the potentiometer . In one embodiment when the potentiometer or sensor detects movement in a forward direction relative to the trolley the drive mechanism is activated to cause movement of the trolley in the forward direction and when the sensor detects movement in a rearward direction relative to the trolley a braking mechanism is activated to retain the trolley in a particular position.

Referring to the control system of the body weight support system according to the present invention includes a force sensor that measures the force being applied to the rope .

Now an embodiment of an unloading system of the body weight support system according to the present invention is described. In this embodiment the unloading system has two main components the winch and the spring based dynamic unloading system.

A function of the winch is to raise and lower the subject into or out of a sitting position or in some cases bring a person up from or lower a person to the floor. The winch sub assembly consists of a DC brushless motor a harmonic drive gear head 80 1 and a winch drum spooled with approximately twelve feet of rope. In an alternative embodiment the drive gear head may have a 100 1 ratio.

Referring to the winch sub assembly which is shown inside the broken or dashed lines allows large lengths of rope to be spooled out or reeled in which in turn is used to raise or lower a patient from to the floor or from to a sitting position.

The unloading system is the portion of the body weight support system that raises and lowers the subject and also provides constant rope tension e.g. constant body weight support . The unloading system is mounted below the trolley allowing it to move along the track . On the unloading system a winch drum is spooled with rope which in one embodiment can be at least twelve feet of rope. The rope can be an 8 mm rope. The rope can be let out to lower the subject or wrapped up to raise the subject from the floor or their wheelchair. A DC motor controls the function of the winch. Once the subject is in a standing position the therapist can engage the constant body weight support system . In this capacity constant rope tension is maintained by two die springs and pressing against the pulley plate to which the subject is attached. As the subject walks a DC motor automatically maintains the spring length constant for springs and which results in constant rope tension. Sensors monitor the amount of unloading force and the subject s vertical position. The springs can be referred to as elastic members.

Now the operation of the winch is described. In one embodiment the winch motor turns at a constant speed controlled by computer software which is reduced by the harmonic drive by 80 times since a 80 1 gear ratio is utilized. The torque developed at the output of the harmonic drive is 80 times that of the motor due to this gear ratio. In an alternative embodiment the speed can be reduced by the harmonic drive by 100 times if a 100 1 gear ratio is utilized. In other embodiments different gear ratios can be used.

Since the harmonic drive is coupled directly to the winch drum the winch drum turns at the same speed as the harmonic drive . As the winch turns in one direction rope is unwound from the winch drum according to the path shown in by arrow B. As a result the position of the spreader bar and consequently the subject is lowered. If the winch turns in the opposite direction rope is wound onto the drum effectively raising the position of the spreader bar and consequently the subject see . A multi turn potentiometer is mounted to the end of the winch drum that monitors the height of the spreader bar or equivalently the subject . The vertical range of the spreader bar is monitored in the software so that the control system always knows the vertical position of the subject.

Under normal operation once the subject is raised to a standing position the motor is turned off and maintains the current winch position using an internal motor brake. The winch is mainly used to raise and lower patients at the beginning and end of trainings and also to pick up rope slack or let rope out if subjects are negotiating stairs or performing sit to stand maneuvers where a large vertical excursion is required. This is described more below. In one implementation by using the current motor harmonic drive the winch can produce approximately 420 lbs of rope tension at a speed of 12.6 inches per second.

While the winch described above allows subjects to be raised and lowered from the floor and their wheelchairs the spring based unloading system controls the tension in the rope . The spring based system can be referred to as a series elastic actuator. The overall concept of a spring based system is that a spring compressed by some length dx will produce a force k dx according to Hooke s Law where k is the spring s stiffness. In order to maintain constant force a motor is used to maintain the length of the spring at some fixed amount of compression. A detailed discussion of the operation of the spring based unloading system will be presented below. First a description of the parts of the system will be presented.

Referring to in this embodiment the unloading system includes two inch hardened steel rods spaced approximately eight inches apart in parallel which are mounted to an aluminum plate supported by end blocks . Precision bearings and that are pressed into two plates the pulley plate and the ball screw plate allow the plates and to slide freely along the hardened rods . The pulley plate has a 3.5 inch pulley mounted to it which the unloading rope is wound around.

The ball screw motor is coupled directly to a ball screw which has a ball screw support block and mounted on either end. A ball screw nut is rigidly connected to the ball screw plate . Two heavy duty springs and reside between the two plates and . A linear encoder is mounted onto the ball screw plate and it measures the length of the springs and . In this embodiment an ultrasonic distance sensor measures the distance between the pulley plate and the rod support blocks . In one embodiment a portion of the linear encoder is mounted on the ball screw plate and another portion of the linear encoder is mounted on the pulley plate .

In the static state the rope comes off the winch drum wraps around the fixed re director pulley around the pulley plate pulley over the drop down pulley and then down to the subject see . To apply tension in the rope the ball screw motor turns the ball screw which in turn causes the ball screw nut to advance the ball screw plate toward the pulley plate . As a result this movement causes the springs and to compress causing a force against the pulley plate F k dx see .

The ball screw plate moves at a slow and constant velocity towards the pulley plate compressing the springs and at a constant rate. The controller running on the computer monitors the tension in the rope using a single axis force sensor so that the springs and are compressed until the desired magnitude of unloading force is achieved. In one embodiment the maximum rope tension is 150 lbs. In other embodiments rope having different properties can be used.

As the subject walks the pulley plate will move back and forth. In order to maintain the force in the rope constant the spring deflection dx must remain constant. The linear encoder measures the instantaneous length of the springs and and if the dimension dx varies the ball screw motor turns on and moves the ball screw plate to the left or to the right in order to maintain the spring deflection dx at the desired level of compression see . The pulley plate moves back and forth along the direction of arrow A in as the subject walks. The force sensor is also monitored continuously so that if the average rope force is too low the springs and are compressed or if the force is too high the springs and are uncompressed.

In the event that a subject traverses obstacles such as ramps or stairs the pulley plate may move a significant amount. The ultrasonic sensor measures the location of the pulley plate with respect to the rod support blocks . If either the ball screw plate or the pulley plate moves too close to the rod support blocks the winch motor will turn on and either let rope out in the case when the ball screw plate is too close to the rod support blocks shown on the left ends of rods in or spool the rope up in the case when the pulley plate is too close to the rod support blocks shown on the right ends of rods in . During this time the linear encoder continues to measure the spring length and causes the ball screw motor to be activated if the desired amount of spring compression varies.

Referring to the distance between the ball screw support block and the ball screw nut is illustrated as C. In the ball screw motor is activated to move the ball screw plate along the direction of arrow D. As a result the distance C between the support block and the ball screw nut increases. Similarly the distance between the ball screw plate and the rod support blocks increases.

Referring to the ball screw motor has been activated and the ball screw plate and the pulley plate are moved along the direction of arrow E. As a result the length of the rope extending downwardly from the support system increases thereby lowering the spreader bar . Referring to the ball screw motor is further activated and the ball screw plate and the pulley plate are moved along the direction of arrow F. 

Referring to an alternative embodiment of an unloading system according to the present invention is illustrated. Some of the components in the unloading system illustrated in are similar to components in the unloading system illustrated in FIGS. A and . Accordingly like reference numerals are used to designate like components.

As illustrated the ball screw drive is supported on a base plate and is configured to rotate the ball screw . The ball screw extends from support block and moves ball screw nut as it rotates. Movement of the ball screw nut along the ball screw causes movement of the ball screw plate . As shown spring is mounted between plates and . Spring is mounted on a rod A that extends therethrough and that provides lateral stability to the spring . Rod A is coupled to rod B. Similarly spring is mounted on a rod A that extends therethrough and that provides lateral stability to the spring . Rod A is coupled to rod B. Linear encoder which detects the distance between plates and is illustrated as well.

In this embodiment the base plate includes a mounting portion A to which a pair of supports B is coupled only one support B is shown in . Pulley described above is rotatably mounted on an axle C that has ends that are mounted in an opening in each of the supports B.

Referring to the pulley plate includes a pair of supports A coupled thereto only one support A is shown in . Each of the supports A includes a hole or opening in which an end of an axle B is inserted. Pulley is rotatably mounted on the axle B. The unloading system also includes a mounting plate with a mounting portion A to which the winch drum is rotatably mounted. The mounting plate also includes a portion B to which ends of the support rods are coupled.

In this embodiment the unloading system includes a sensor that measures the distance between the base plate and the ball screw plate which in turn allows for the positions of the ball screw plate and the pulley plate to be calculated and determined. In one implementation the sensor is an ultrasonic sensor that includes an emitter and a reflecting plate . The emitter is coupled or mounted to the base plate . The reflecting plate is coupled or mounted to the ball screw plate . Once the positions of the emitter and the reflecting plate are calibrated with the control system the sensor can determine the position of the ball screw plate and in turn the pulley plate . In other embodiments the sensor can have a different structure or utilize different components.

In normal operation the springs and compress and the ball screw plate and the pulley plate move back and forth as a unit. If the lengths of the springs and remain constant the force on the springs does as well. The ball screw plate and the pulley plate can move back and forth in the area between the base plate and the mounting plate as shown in . For a large change in vertical excursion such as when a subject steps off a stair or stands up plates and can rapidly approach one end of the area between base plate and mounting plate . When the plates and engage one end of the area the plates and can bottom out and be difficult to move. The control system includes an algorithm that is used to center the ball screw plate and the pulley plate in the middle region along the rails or support rods and away from the ends of the rods . If one of the plates and runs into an end the ball screw motor cannot adjust the spring length appropriately and the force on the rope changes. By controlling the position of the ball screw plate and the pulley plate the unloading system allows for large changes in vertical position of the subject while simultaneously keeping the force on the system and the rope constant.

Accordingly the sensor monitors where the two plate unit including the ball screw plate and the pulley plate is located along the support rods or rails . If the ball screw plate and the pulley plate move too close to one end of the travel area the controller turns on the winch motor which causes the winch to rotate. In the case where the subject moves downwardly quickly the two plate unit can move too close to the end of the area proximate to the base plate . In this scenario the winch motor causes the winch to rotate in the direction in which rope is let out from the winch and around pulley . Movement of the rope in that direction permits the ball screw plate and the pulley plate to be re centered in the area between base plate and mounting plate . At the same time as the activation of the winch motor the ball screw motor is activated to maintain the length of the springs and constant which in turn keeps the force being unloaded by the unloading system constant.

In the case where the subject moves upwardly quickly the two plate unit moves too close to the end of the area proximate to the mounting plate . In this scenario the winch motor causes the winch to rotate in the direction in which rope is pulled up toward the trolley and wound onto the winch . Movement of the rope in that direction permits the ball screw plate and the pulley plate to be re centered in the area between base plate and mounting plate . At the same time as the activation of the winch motor the ball screw motor is activated to maintain the length of the springs and constant which in turn keeps the force being unloaded by the unloading system constant.

The system described above is controlled via a standard computer such as a personal computer or PC that contains data acquisition cards which acquire data from the system s sensors. An exemplary embodiment of a control system is illustrated in . In this embodiment the control system includes a controller that is configured to receive various inputs from the sensors or detectors of the system. Some exemplary sensors on the device include an linear encoder which measures the spring length of the springs and a free wheel encoder which measures the movement of the trolley along the rail a multi turn potentiometer which measures the winch drum position a precision potentiometer which measure the pivoting arm angle for the trolley controller of arm and a single axis force sensor which measures the tension in the rope . Finally the control system also includes sensor that is configured to determine the distance between the ball screw plate and the base plate . In one embodiment all of these sensors are in communication with the controller or a computer through data acquisition boards and are sampled a high rates e.g. 1000 Hz . The system includes the drive motor the winch motor and the ball screw motor . Each of the motors and is controlled based on the inputs from the corresponding sensors.

As mentioned above the body weight support system according to the present invention can be used with a graphical user interface. One exemplary interface system is illustrated in . While illustrate various screens that can be used with the system it is to be understood that the screens may have any configuration and may include different features or components than those illustrated herein. The buttons on the interfaces can be referred to alternatively as inputs or input mechanisms.

Referring to an initial screenshot or interface is illustrated. Interface is an introductory screen in which a therapist or other caregiver enters or logs on to the system. An entry field in which the therapist enters his or her name is provided along with a corresponding drop down arrow that can be selected to access pre entered information such as various names. An entry field is provided in which the user can enter a password. Several buttons are provided for additional inputs by a user. An Add button can be selected to add a new user to the database of users. A Quit button can be selected to end the entering or logging on process. A Help button can be selected when assistance is needed or desired.

Referring to another interface or screen is illustrated. Interface includes a Generate Training Summary button that can be selected by a user to cause the computer system to generate an output based on the detected data. For example when a user selects button an output in the form of a graph such as the graph illustrated in can be generated. Alternatively when a user selects button an interface such as interface can be displayed and subsequently used as described below. Interface also includes a Begin Training Session button that can be selected by a user to start a new training session for a subject. If button is selected the next user interface can be similar to interface illustrated in . Referring back to a Help button and a Quit button can be provided as well.

Referring to a exemplary interface for the start of a new training session is illustrated. Interface includes an entry field and associated drop down arrow that allows a user to enter a new database or select an existing database. Interface includes entry fields for the subject s Last Name see field First Name see field Height see field and Weight see field . Interface also includes a harness selection area which sets forth various sizes of harnesses and enables a user to select therefrom. When the foregoing information has been entered by a user the Update and Continue button can be selected by a user. Interface also includes a Back button and a Help button . In different embodiments additional or alternative fields can be provided in interface in which other information relating to the subject can be entered.

Referring to an interface or screen associated with the setting up of a subject is illustrated. In this embodiment the interface includes an instruction section that sets forth the various steps. Interface includes a Winch section that includes an up button and a down button . The user can raise or lower the spreader bar by way of selecting the corresponding up button or down button that controls the movement of the winch . Similarly the interface includes a Trolley section that includes a home button and an away button that can be selected by the user to move the trolley in the desired direction. Once the winch and the trolley have been moved to their desired positions the user can select the Start Training button . Interface also includes a Back button and a Help button .

Referring to an exemplary interface of a training center is illustrated. In this embodiment the interface includes two informational sections and that provide information relating to the current training session. In other embodiments the informational sections and can include different information than that shown in . Interface includes a body weight support portion in which the desired unloading can be selected. The particular unloading amount in the unit of lbs is indicated by indicia which in this example is 55 lbs. In other embodiments the units can be changed to kilograms or other unit of measure. Up and down buttons and respectively can be selected by the user to change the desired unloading as indicated by indicia accordingly. Once the desired unloading amount is correct the user can select the Start Dynamic Unloading button . Interface includes other inputs or buttons that the user can select. As shown in a button entitled Expand Treadmill Controls is provided that enables a user to see a more detailed view of the controls for the treadmill feature of the system see interface illustrated in for example which is described below . In addition interface includes a button entitled Expand Trolley Controls which enables a user to see a more detailed view of the controls of the trolley of the system see interfaces and illustrated in for example which is described below .

Referring back to a Winch control section with an up button and a down button is provided. In addition a button entitled Enable PocketPC is provided which allows a user to activate a wireless device such as a handheld device to operate the system therewith. Interface also includes an Advanced Settings button a Help button and an End Training button .

Referring to an interface that has expanded Treadmill controls is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Expand Treadmill Controls button in interface . For simplicity of the description only the differences between interface and interface are described with respect to .

Interface includes a treadmill control section with an indicator or indicia that illustrates the current speed of the treadmill with which the body weight support system is being used. While indicator is illustrated in units of mph alternative units such as kilometers per hour may be in alternative systems. Up and down buttons and respectively can be selected by a user to vary the treadmill speed as desired. In addition the angle of inclination of the treadmill is shown by indicator in units of degrees. Buttons and can be selected by the user to increase or decrease the angle of inclination as desired. A user input for reversing the direction of the travel of the belt of the treadmill is also provided.

Referring to an interface that has expanded Trolley controls is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Expand Trolley Controls button in interface . For simplicity of the description only the differences between interface and interface are described with respect to .

Interface includes a trolley control section with an indicator or indicia that illustrates the current speed of the treadmill with which the body weight support system is being used. While indicator is illustrated in units of mph alternative units such as kilometers per hour may be in alternative systems. In this embodiment the trolley is operating in a self paced mode. Up and down buttons and respectively can be selected by a user to vary the treadmill speed as desired. The trolley control section includes a Start Trolley Tracking button and a Disable Trolley button . A user input for switching the mode of trolley control to a paced mode is also provided. The X in the top right corner of the trolley control section can be selected by a user to close the trolley control section and return to interface .

Referring to an interface that has expanded Trolley controls different than the controls shown in interface is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Expand Trolley Controls button in interface . For simplicity of the description only the differences between interface and interface are described with respect to .

Interface includes a trolley control section with an indicator or indicia that illustrates the paced walking speed of the treadmill with which the body weight support system is being used. While indicator is illustrated in units of mph alternative units such as kilometers per hour may be in alternative systems. In this embodiment the trolley is operating in a paced mode. Up and down buttons and respectively can be selected by a user to vary the treadmill speed as desired. The trolley control section includes a Start Trolley Tracking button and a Disable Trolley button . A user input for switching the mode of trolley control to a self paced mode is also provided.

Referring to an interface that sets forth Advanced Settings controls is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Advanced Settings button in interfaces or .

Interface includes an indicator or indicia that identifies the selected fall distance limit for the subject using the body weight support system. While the fall distance limit in indicator is identified in inches alternative units such as centimeters may be in alternative systems. Interface includes buttons and that can be selected by a user to increase or decrease the fall distance as desired. Interface also includes a fall speed section with a fall speed indicator that identifies the desired fall speed of the patient. While the indicator is in units of inches per second in other embodiments the indicator can be in units of centimeters per second or other similar units. Interface includes buttons and that can be selected by a user to increase or decrease the fall speed as desired. A user input entitled Help can be provided as well.

Referring to an interface relating to training summaries is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Generate Training Summary button in interface . In other embodiments interface can be reached upon the selection of a different button or input mechanism or the natural progression of the program upon the completion of a training summary.

Interface includes a Current Session button and an Across Sessions button that can be selected by a user to identify the data and training session s that are to be the basis for the training summary to be generated. Activation of the Across Sessions button causes data from multiple training sessions to be used in the summary. Interface includes a Help button and a Quit button as well.

Referring to an interface relating to a training summary based on a current session is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Current Session button in interface as described above relative to . In other embodiments interface can be reached upon the selection of a different button or input mechanism or the natural progression of the program upon the completion of a training session.

Interface includes a data section that identifies various parameters or measurements of the training session. In this data section data or results relating to total walking time total distance walked number of falls prevented average walking speed and average body weight support are displayed. In other embodiments other types and units of data may be tracked by the system and displayed in data section . Interface includes a Print Session Summary button that can be selected to print the data associated with the current training session. Interface also includes a Help button and a Quit button .

Referring to an interface relating to a training summary based on multiple training sessions is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Across Sessions button in interface as described above relative to . In other embodiments interface can be reached upon the selection of a different button or input mechanism or the natural progression of the program upon the completion of a training session.

Interface includes a section that identifies the various parameters or measurements of the training sessions that can be processed and output to the user. In this embodiment data or results relating to total walking time total distance walked number of falls prevented average walking speed and average body weight support can be selected and subsequently displayed. In other embodiments other types and units of data may be tracked by the system and displayed.

Interface includes several Plot buttons and each of which is associated with a particular parameter or data measurement for the training sessions. Depending on the particular Plot button selected by the user a different output is generated and displayed. Interface includes a Print Summary button that can be selected to print the summary associated with the training sessions. Interface also includes a Help button and a Quit button .

Referring to an interface showing a plotted training summary across sessions is illustrated. Interface is an exemplary interface that may be used with the system when a user selects the Plot button in interface as described above relative to . If any of the other Plot buttons or is selected a similar training summary plot can be generated with the appropriate units.

Interface includes the measured data along one axis and the session date along another axis . In other embodiments the session date can be replaced with other units of time such as session time. Referring to a line output is generated based on the time data on particular dates. The graph may include a title indicating the particular training session data which in this example is Walking Time Training Summary. 

An alternative embodiment of a body weight support system is illustrated in . In this embodiment the body weight support system includes a trolley that is movably mounted to a track as shown in . Rotatably coupled to the trolley are pivoting wheel assemblies and each of which is described in detail below. Also mounted to the trolley is an electrical housing to which various cables wires or other communication links are connected. As shown in the cables or wires are coupled to multiple festoons that are slidably mounted to the track and movable by way of wheels .

Referring to a bottom perspective view of some of the components of the trolley are illustrated. In this embodiment the trolley includes a base to which pivoting wheel assemblies and are rotatably mounted on bearings see . Pivoting wheel assembly is a passive assembly that includes a housing and several wheels mounted to the housing that contact different surfaces of the track .

Referring to FIGS. and pivoting wheel assembly includes wheels and that rest on the upper inner surface of the lower flange of the track such as on top of flange C . Pivoting wheel assembly also includes wheels and and wheels and that roll on the web of the I beam track to provide lateral stability. Pivoting wheel assembly also includes wheels and and wheels and that are configured to roll on the bottom of the lower flange of the I beam to provide stability in the vertical direction. As shown in wheels and are rotatably mounted on an axle .

Referring to the housing includes two housing portions and that define therebetween a channel . The channel is configured to slidably receive the web or middle portion of the I beam track such as track portion B described above .

Referring to pivoting wheel assembly is illustrated. Pivoting wheel assembly is rotatably mounted to the base of the trolley by a bearing. Pivoting wheel assembly is different from pivoting wheel assembly in that assembly includes a trolley motor that is coupled to a drive wheel that engages the track to move the trolley along the track . As shown in the drive wheel includes an outer surface and is rotatably mounted on an axle . The drive wheel is mounted in a drive wheel body that is pivotally mounted to the housing by an axle . On each side of the drive wheel body there is a spring that engages an upper end or limit see and exerts a downward force on end or portion of the drive wheel body so that the drive wheel is forced into contact with the track .

Referring to pairs of upper wheels and and upper wheels and and lower wheels only is visible are used in combination with support wheels and to engage various surfaces of the I beam track and provide vertical and lateral support for the pivoting wheel assembly and the trolley . An encoder is mounted on the axle that supports wheels and . The encoder is configured to measure the distance walked by the subject the speed of walking and other data.

Referring to an embodiment of a cable support system is illustrated. As shown the trolley is movably mounted on the track . The trolley includes an electrical housing to which cables wires and or other communication links can be coupled. The cables are bundled together and coupled to support arms using a fastener such as a combination of a hook type material and a loop type material. Fasteners are used to secure the cables to the support arms .

Each support arm is pivotally coupled to a festoon that is slidably mounted on the track . As the trolley moves in a direction along the track the trolley pulls on the cables in the same direction. Initially the festoon closest to the trolley begins to move and as the trolley continues to move the next festoon begins to move. Continued movement of the trolley causes additional festoons to move. Movement of the trolley in the opposite direction causes the festoons to move in that opposite direction as well. The support arms provide support stiffness to the cables . In addition the support arms maintain the cables in a substantially horizontal plane which prevents the cables from becoming tangled and in the way of the patient. At the end of the festooning system the cables pass through a support member that defines a channel .

Referring to the festoons and cable mounting structure are illustrated in greater detail. Each festoon includes a body with an axle on which a wheel is mounted and an axle on which a wheel is mounted. Wheels and are disposed so that they engage the lower surface of the I beam track . An upper wheel is located on each side of the I beam track .

Support arm can be coupled to a rotatably mounted plate using fasteners . The rotatably mounting of the support arm facilitates the rotation of the support arm as the corresponding festoon moves.

In various embodiments of the invention any combination of components can be used as part of or with the trolley. In addition any combination of sensors or detectors can be used with the controller to determine the appropriate feedback and inputs to control the movement of the trolley.

While the invention has been described in detail and with references to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers the modifications and variations of this invention.

