---

title: Providing user-spot (U-Spot) services in a communication system
abstract: A mobile communication device may be utilized to establish a localized user network that is accessible by client devices when the client devices are communicatively coupled to the mobile communication device. The mobile communication device is then operable to determine services that may be provided in the user network to the client devices, and to advertise these services within the user network. The services comprise network and/or data accessibility, and bandwidth availability. Mobile communication devices are also operable to provide, directly or via local and/or remote resources, additional services, comprising audio/video processing capability, storage, and/or processing. Offering of services in user networks is incentivized to the mobile communication devices and/or to client devices. Incentives comprise offering pay and/or credit to the mobile communication devices. Providing access to, blocking, limiting and/or modifying available/offered services is managed in U-Spot networks, based on incentives and/or availability of resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08537793&OS=08537793&RS=08537793
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08537793
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081203
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate to communications. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for providing user spot U Spot services in a communication system.

The growth of system connectivity has been one of the major developments in recent years. Fewer and fewer systems are operating as stand alone system and most of today s systems are increasingly becoming elements of one or more larger or complex networks. This growth in various networking technologies have provided improved performance and increased flexibility for these networks. Various wired and or wireless based communication standards have been developed to satisfy demands for ever expanding system connectivity. The growth of system connectivity has also spurred a growth in applications that takes advantage of the benefits offered by the improved system connectivity especially those having access to entities that provides improved processing and or storage capabilities.

Communication end point devices which are mobile and or stationary comprise a plurality of wireless technologies to enable use of various interfaces for transmitting and or receiving data. For example mobile devices which enable cellular connectivity have become a near absolute necessity in today s world. While mobile technology originally evolved from traditional land based communication technologies and was merely intended to add an element of mobility to the traditional telephony service this technology has grown beyond that initial purpose. Many modern mobile technologies including such technologies as GSM GPRS EDGE UMTS CDMA2000 and or LTE incorporate substantial data capabilities. Most of today s mobile services comprise such features as text messaging audio video streaming and web browsing. Modern mobile devices for example cell phones and or smart phones are utilized to support additional services via other wireless interfaces for example wireless personal area networks WPAN and or wireless local area network WLAN interfaces.

The use of wireless personal area networks WPAN continues to gain popularity in a great number of applications because of the flexibility and convenience in connectivity they provide. WPAN systems generally replace cumbersome cabling and or wiring used to connect peripheral devices and or mobile terminals by providing short distance wireless links that allow connectivity within very narrow spatial limits typically a 10 meter range . An exemplary WPAN system utilizes a standardized technology such as Class 2 Bluetooth BT technology.

While WPAN are very beneficial for certain applications other applications require larger service areas and or capabilities. To satisfy such needs other technologies such as Wireless local area networks WLAN have been developed to provide greater wireless service. In contrast to the WPAN systems WLAN provide connectivity to devices that are located within a slightly larger geographical area such as the area covered by a building or a campus for example. WLAN systems are generally based on specific standards for example IEEE 802.11 standard specifications and typically operate within a 100 meter range and are generally utilized to supplement the communication capacity provided by traditional wired Local Area Networks LANs installed in the same geographic area as the WLAN system.

Some WLAN systems are operated in conjunction with WPAN systems to provide users with an enhanced overall functionality. For example Bluetooth technology is utilized to connect a laptop computer or a handheld wireless terminal to a peripheral device such as a keyboard mouse headphone and or printer while the laptop computer or the handheld wireless terminal is also connected to a campus wide WLAN network through an access point AP located within the building. Also mobile technology enables the use of the mobile phone as a form of wireless modem that allows connecting a laptop for example to the internet via a mobile network. More recently Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX based systems have become popular and use of WiMAX to provide wireless connectivity is expanding.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for providing user spot U Spot services in a communication system substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for providing user spot U Spot services in a communication system. In various embodiments of the invention mobile communication devices are operable to establish and service private user based networks which may also be referred to as user spot U Spot networks. The mobile communication devices are operable to determine services that are available via the corresponding U Spot networks to one or more client end point devices when the client end point devices are communicatively coupled to the mobile communication devices via wired and or wireless links. The services are based on network access data accessibility and or functionality available via the mobile communication devices. Available services are advertised in the U Spot networks via the mobile communication devices. The advertisement operations are performed via beacons and or utilizing for example personalized markup language interfaces such as HTML XML and or other suitable text audio and or video interfaces. Secondary devices and or systems external to and or remote from the mobile communication devices are operable to advertise and or offer content or functionality via the advertising functionality in the mobile communication devices.

The mobile communication devices are also operable to utilize local and or remote resources to provide additional services including for example audio and or video processing capability storage and or processing. The offering and or requesting of services in the U Spot networks is incentivized to the mobile communication devices and or to the client end point devices. The mobile communication devices are operable to request and or receive pay and or credit for providing services. Accounts corresponding to the client end point devices may also be debited based on services received via the U Spot networks. Servicing operations in the U Spot networks may be supported and or managed by network service providers via operator support servers for example. The operator support servers enable managing for example user accounts and or network accessibility provided via the U Spot networks and or managing crediting billing operations based on servicing operations in the U Spot networks. Communication in the U Spot networks may be secured wherein security and or authentication operations are utilized to validate user access and or accounting adjustments made and or requested based on services provided via the U Spot networks.

The plurality of communication networks comprises one or more networks that are operable to enable wireless and or wired communication among a plurality of local and or remote entities. The network connectivity available via the plurality of communication networks is based on one or more communication standards and or protocols. The plurality of communication networks comprises for example the cellular network the Internet the WWAN and or the WLAN . The cellular network comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable communication via one or more cellular technologies. Exemplary cellular technologies comprise CDMA WCDMA CDMA1000 HSDPA GSM GPRS EDGE and or UMTS. The cellular network comprise for example a plurality of control and or switching nodes and a plurality of base stations that enable transmission and or reception of cellular based communications between the cellular network and cellular capable devices. The Internet comprises a system of interconnected networks to enable exchange of data between a plurality of nodes based on one or more networking standards including for example the Internet protocol IP . For example the Internet enables connectivity among a plurality of private and public academic business and or government nodes and networks. The physical connectivity is provided in the Internet for example via the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN via copper wires fiber optic cables wireless interface and or other standards based interfaces. The transport functionality is performed in the Internet for example based on one or more protocols including for example the TCP IP protocol.

The WWAN comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable implementation of one or more wireless wide network area standards and or protocols. Exemplary wireless wide network area technologies comprise for example WiMAX based networks. The WLAN comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable implementation of one or more wireless local network area standards and or protocols. Exemplary wireless local network area technologies comprise for example 802.11 based standards including for example WiFi based networks.

Each of the communication devices and comprises a personal end point device and or system that is operable to enable performing tasks and or applications requested via users of the communication devices. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the communication devices and are operable to communicate with one or more the U Spot servicing devices and or to form communication paths that support one or more applications that originate or terminate in the communication devices. Exemplary devices comprise PDAs Smart phones laptops and or other PCs that are operable to enable utilizing at least one wired or wireless communication interface. Exemplary wireless and or wired interfaces comprise for example WiFi Bluetooth and or other personal area network WPAN based interfaces USB and or proprietary inter device standards based interfaces.

Each of the U spot servicing devices and comprises a portable end point device that is operable to establish and or service the U Spot networks and . Each of the U spot servicing devices and comprises portable communication device that is substantially similar to any of the communication devices and or and is similarly operable to perform tasks and or applications requested by devices users. Additionally each of the U spot servicing devices and comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing U Spot related setup management and or control operations in the U Spot networks and or . In order to facilitate providing network accessibility servicing via U Spot networks the U spot servicing devices and or are operable to enable network connectivity to one or more of the communication networks via one or more wireless and or wired interfaces. For example each the U spot servicing devices and are operable to utilize cellular links Ethernet links WiMAX links and or 802.11 links to enable establishing network connectivity via cellular network the Internet the WWAN and or the WLAN .

The operator support server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable providing and or managing network accessibility. The operator support server is utilized for example by service providers to enable providing access to one or more of the plurality of communication networks to a plurality of users. The operator support server is operable for example to enable managing users accounts and or network access that correspond to users of any of the U spot servicing devices and or and or any of the communication devices and or .

The secondary advertising server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable providing supporting and or supplementing advertising operations in the U Spot networks and or via the U spot servicing devices and or .

In operation the U Spot servicing devices and or enable establishing the U Spot networks and or respectively. The U Spot networks represent for example localized network wherein user end point devices present within operational proximity of the U Spot servicing devices establish connectivity with the U Spot servicing devices to request and or receive services available in the U Spot network. For example the U Spot servicing device establish the U Spot wherein a plurality of services provided via the U Spot servicing device are available in the U Spot network .

The services provided via the U Spot comprise for example network accessibility. For example the U Spot servicing device is communicatively coupled to one or more of the plurality of the communication networks via one or more wired and or wireless links. The U Spot servicing devices 125 connectivity is established for example via a WiMAX wireless link a cellular link an 802.11 link an Ethernet based wired connection and or fiber optical cables. Accordingly the communication devices and or request network connectivity through the U Spot network via the U Spot servicing device . For example there are instances when the communication device has no direct network access to the plurality of communication networks . The communication device establishes instead a connection with the U Spot servicing device to gain network access via the U Spot servicing device network connectivity. The connection between the communication device and the U Spot servicing device is setup via a wireless connection over Bluetooth link for example and or via a wired connection such as an Ethernet crossover cable for example.

The U Spot servicing device s network connectivity is also utilized when the requesting device has some network access of its own. For example where the communication device has only 802.11 network accessibility the U Spot servicing device s network connectivity via a WiMAX link and or a 3G cellular link for example is deemed to be more desirable due to higher bandwidth quality of pservice QOS and or network performance. In addition to network accessibility other services are available via U Spot networks. Where the U Spot servicing device losses its connectivity to the plurality of communication networks for example the U Spot servicing device offers via the U Spot network services based on data and or functionality that is available locally within the U Spot servicing device which is available in the U Spot network regardless of availability of network accessibility in the U Spot servicing device . For example the communication devices and or are operable to connect to the U Spot servicing device via an 802.11 link for example to request and or retrieve video and or audio streams that are stored in and or played via the U Spot servicing device . The U Spot servicing device may also be operable as a centralized gaming console to provide gaming applications in the U Spot network based on internally maintained data and or functionality.

In an exemplary aspect of the invention U Spot network servicing operations are incentivized. In this regard the U Spot servicing operations is incentivize to the U Spot servicing devices for example by enabling them and or their users to claim pay and or credit for provide U Spot services. The credit received for providing U Spot network services is utilized for example to compensate for costs otherwise charged by a service provider when the U Spot servicing devices are utilized as user end point devices. The user accounts corresponding to the devices utilizing the U Spot network servicing operations are adjusted to bill and or debit their users for services provided via the U Spot networks. The operator support server are operable for example to manage accounts corresponding to the U Spot servicing device and or the communication devices and or . Accordingly the U Spot servicing device is operable to request credit and or billing adjustments for servicing the communication devices and or via the operator support server . Where the operator support server does not directly manage the user account for either of the devices receiving and or providing U Spot services the operator support server communicates directly with other operator support servers to facilitate exchange of required user related information to enable performing necessary billing and or crediting adjustments. Alternatively a centralized depository is utilized to enable indirect exchange of user related information by instances of the operator support server .

The U Spot servicing operations are also be incentivized to the requesting devices for example because the U Spot networks offer network accessibility improved bandwidth and more suitable content functionality networking capabilities. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the communication devices and the U Spot servicing devices are operable to negotiate incentivized arrangements with respect for example to the requesting communication devices the U Spot servicing devices and or service providers via instances of the operator support server . For example where the U Spot servicing device is only offering 10 of its available network bandwidth for networking accessibility in the U Spot network the communication device is operable to negotiate with the U Spot servicing device for allocation of 20 of the available bandwidth in exchange for larger credit and or higher pay.

The U Spot network functionality also comprises advertisement operations. For example the U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to transmit beacon signals. In addition to providing information that enable identifying and or locating the U Spot networks and or the beacons also comprise information advertising the services available in the U Spot networks. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the U Spot servicing devices and or are also operable to utilize web based communication functionality. The web based communication functionality is operable for example to enable user friendly interactions between the U Spot servicing devices and or and communication devices in the U Spot networks and or . Additionally the web based communication functionality is operable to advertise services available in the corresponding U Spot networks and or . The U Spot servicing devices and or are operable for example to create via the web based communication functionality personalized markup language interfaces comprising for example HTML XML and or or other suitable text audio and or video interfaces. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the personalized interface is utilized to create and or manage advertising and or servicing webpage during interactions between servicing devices and requesting devices. Accordingly the personalized interface enables users of the communication devices and or for example to conveniently communicate with the U Spot servicing devices to inquire about available services and or to request and or receive services for example downloading media streams. The personalized interfaces are also operable to enable performing incentivizing operations including for example enabling the devices to negotiate and or throttle bandwidth allocation. The U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to enable secondary devices and or systems which are external to and or remote from the servicing devices to utilize their personalized interface functionality. For example the secondary advertising server is operable to create it own advertising webpage and push the webpage via the personalized interfaces of U Spot servicing devices and or to offer content and or functionality available directly or indirectly via the secondary advertising server .

The operator support server is substantially as described with respect to . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the operator support server comprises a plurality of constituent functional entities to enable supporting U Spot network. The operator support server comprises for example the browser API entity the map search engine the users account management and the billing management .

The browser API entity comprises suitable logic and or code that enable communication between the operator support server and other devices and or systems. The browser API entity is operable for example to enable communication of messaging pertaining to support and or management of U Spot network services and or to enable communication pertaining to user accounts to request for example crediting and or billing adjustments for one or more users serviced via the operator support server . The browser API entity is operable to enable supporting messaging that is based on application programming interface API which is specific to a functionality running in the operator support server and is supported in devices communicating with the operator support server . Alternatively the browser API entity is operable to enable for example remote access and or communication based on an HTTP based browsing interface. Accordingly the browser API entity enables running an HTTP based server functionality via the operator support server that enable establishing peer to peer connection with HTTP based client functionlity running in the requesting device. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the browser API entity is also operable to enable communication among a plurality of the operator support server directly and or indirectly via centralized depositories during exchange of user account information for example for the purpose of performing crediting and or billing operations.

The map search engine comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable mapping specified locations to one or more devices operated and or managed by the operator support server . The operator support server is operable for example to receive requests for listing of U Spot networks and or services available via the U Spot networks based on a specified location. The map search engine is then operable to enable determining and communication information pertaining to U spot servicing devices based on the location of the requesting device. The determination of U Spot servicing devices that are reported back is based on a plurality of factors comprising for example suitability to provide services based on operational proximity of the devices and or other conditions including for example specified services and or parameters of services.

The user account management comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable management of user related information. The user account management is utilized for example to enable setting up storing maintaining and or updating user s network access related information. The user account management enable for example creation and or maintenance of access information that enable identifying and or authenticating users seeking to access one or more communication networks that are manageable via the operator support server directly and or via U Spot network servicing. The user account management is operable for example to perform user authentication based on SIM challenge wherein the SIM based information provided by communication devices are compared to stored information. The access information comprises various types of information including for example user identifiers user passwords and or location and or addressing related information for devices used by users managed by the operator support server . At least some of access information is provided directly by the operator support server . To enable performing the various user account related operation dedicated sub entities are utilized within the user account management . For example the address location functionality comprises functionality that enables creating managing and or modifying users location related information.

The address location function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that is operable to enable for example performing necessary mapping operations via the map search engine . In an exemplary aspect of the invention a users location information is also generated and or updated in the address location functionality during mapping operations in the map search engine .

The bandwidth limitation function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that comprises functionality that enables creating managing and or modifying users bandwidth related information. The bandwidth limitation functionality is operable for example to enable tracking bandwidth available and applicable constraint thereof via U Spot servicing devices during U Spot network servicing operations.

The billing management function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable management of billing information via the operator support server . For example the billing management comprises functionality that enables setting up storing maintaining and or updating users billing information as it pertains to network accessibility provided via one or more communication devices that are supported and or managed via the operator support server . In an exemplary aspect of the invention the billing management is operable to enable performing billing functionality related to U Spot network servicing operations. For example the billing management is operable to enable billing users accounts corresponding one or more of the communication devices and or when requesting and or receiving services via the U Spot networks and or . The credit management comprises functionlity that is operable to perform crediting functions related to U Spot network servicing operations. For example the credit management is operable to enable crediting users accounts corresponding to one or more of the U Spot servicing devices and or when providing services via the U Spot networks and or . The U Spot based billing and or crediting operations are performed via the billing management and or the credit management based on messaging between the operator support server and the requesting device and or based on messaging among a plurality of instances of the operator support server substantially as described with regard to for example .

In operation the browser API entity the map search engine the users account management the address location function the bandwidth limitation function the billing management and or the credit management function are utilized to enable use of the operator support server to manage and or support U Spot servicing operation via the U Spot networks and or . For example the browser API entity is utilized to enable U Spot servicing devices and or requesting communication devices to communicate with the operator support server . The user account management the address location function the bandwidth limitation function are utilized to validate and or manage users accounts and or network access limitations and or requirements. The map search engine and or the address location function are utilized to provide mapping functionality that is utilized for example to enable communication devices to locate nearby U Spot servicing devices. The billing management and or the credit management function are utilized to enable performing billing crediting operation that enable billing serviced communication devices and or crediting and or paying U Spot servicing devices for services provided via U Spot networks.

The U Spot data management function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable management of advertising operations performed via U Spot networks. The U Spot data management is utilized for example to enable creating webpage experience that is operable to communicate with and or advertise to users of communication devices serviced via U Spot networks.

The personal info entity is comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that is operable to enable creating storing and or updating information pertaining to particular users that is relevant to the personalization of webpages for example. This information comprises for example access validation information accounting related information bandwidth limitations and or location mapping related information. The content channels entity comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that are operable to enable creating storing and or updating information that pertains to the contents that is offered via the advertised webpages via the secondary advertising server . The index categories entity comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that are operable to create store and or manage indexing of information and or content available via the secondary advertising server . For example the index categories entity is operable to enable the U Spot servicing device to locate and access information that are utilized in advertising services and or content to communication devices serviced via the U Spot network . The popularity info entity comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that are operable to track for example current activity by users of communication devices via the U Spot networks in order to predict potential future interests to better optimize advertisement operations in the secondary advertising server for example.

The browser API entity is substantially similar to the browser API as described with regard to for example . The browser API entity is operable for example to enable communication between the secondary advertising server and U Spot servicing devices for example one of the U Spot servicing devices and to enable providing remote advertising functionality via the U Spot servicing devices during U Spot network servicing operations.

The map search engine is substantially similar to the map search engine as described with regard to for example . The map search engine is operable for example to enable communication between the secondary advertising server and U Spot servicing devices for example one of the U Spot servicing devices and to enable providing remote advertising functionality via the U Spot servicing devices during U Spot network servicing operations.

In operation the U Spot data management the personal info entity the content channels entity the index categories entity the popularity info entity the browser application programming interface browser API entity and or the map search engine are utilized to enable use of the secondary advertising server to utilize advertising functionality available via the U Spot networks and or . For example the browser API entity is utilized to enable U Spot servicing devices and or requesting communication devices to communicate with the secondary advertising server . The map search engine is utilized for example to provide mapping functionality that is utilized to enable matching communication devices to nearby U Spot servicing devices. The U Spot data management is utilized to enable utilizing personalized interfaces available via the U Spot servicing devices and or to advertise services and or content available via the secondary advertising server . The personal info entity is utilized to enable creating storing and or updating users information which is pertinent for example to personalization of advertising webpages created via the secondary advertising server . The content channels entity the index categories entity and or the index categories entity are operable to create content provide access to information and or content and or to track trends based on advertising operations provided by the secondary advertising server via the U Spot networks and or .

The end point device comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that is operable to received services in U Spot network via a U Spot servicing device. The end point corresponds for example to any of the communication devices and or substantially as described with regard to for example . To enable performing U Spot related operations via the end point device the end point comprises a U Spot client . For example the U Spot client comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing dedicated client side U Spot related control and or communication in the end point device . The U Spot client is operable to enable exchanging messaging with corresponding entity in the U Spot device .

The U Spot device comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that is operable to establish and service a U Spot network. The U Spot device corresponds for example to any of the U Spot servicing devices and or substantially as described with regard to for example . To enable performing U Spot related operations via the U Spot device the U Spot device comprises a U Spot server . For example the U Spot server comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing dedicated server side U Spot related control and or communication in the U Spot device to facilitate peer to peer type of connectivity between the U Spot device and the end point device . The U Spot server is operable to enable exchanging messaging with corresponding entity in the end point device .

The wired wireless AP comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable providing network accessibility via the U Spot device to one of more available networks. The wired wireless AP is operable for example to enable the U Spot device to access one of more available networks in the plurality of communication networks to enable communication with the operator support server .

The operator support server is substantially similar to the operator support server as described with regard to for example . The operator support server is operable to enable supporting and or managing U Spot network servicing operations.

In operation the end point device joins a U Spot network established via the U Spot device when the devices are within operational proximity of each other. Where the end point device lacks direct network accessibility the end point device establishes data sessions via the U Spot device . The end point device sends via the U Spot client a Session Request message to the U Spot device to request establishment of data session via U Spot device s network connectivity. The U Spot device then determines whether it is able to provide network connectivity substantially as described with regard to for example . The U Spot device then communicates via the wired wireless AP a 3rd Party Connection Req message to the operator support server to indicate that a connection via the U Spot device is requested on behalf of another device. The operator support server responds with a Challenge with intended response message . The challenge message enables authentication of the requesting device the end point device . The challenge message requires the end point device via the Challenge message to provide certain information via the Response message which is compared against the intended response provided in the Challenge message and retained in the U Spot device . In instances where the authentication is successful the U Spot device communicates to the operator support server a Response Cfm and Account Req message . This message confirms the success of the authentication and request crediting and or billing adjustment based on the services that are to be provided to the end point device via the U Spot device . The operator support server is operable to respond with an access granted message Access Granted and Account Start to indicate to the U Spot device that the end point device is granted network access and to indicate that necessary accounting operations billing and or crediting are initiated. The U Spot device is operable to send a session start message Session Start to the end point device to authorize initiation of the session. During action session the end point device sends and or receives data to the wired wireless AP via the U Spot device .

In an exemplary aspect of the invention the operator support server is operable to utilize dedicated functionality and or messaging to enable monitoring and or validating the crediting and or the billing operations during U Spot network servicing operations. The end point device for example is required to communicate periodic encoded heartbeat messages to the operator support server . The encoded heartbeat utilizes for example an encoding decoding algorithm is that only known to the end point device and the operator support server . Use of the encoded heartbeat messages enables the operator support server to track network access by the end point device to ensure that the end point device is billed and or that the U Spot device is credited only to extent of actual servicing of the end point device via the U Spot device .

To perform user initiated session termination the end point device sends a session end request message Session End Req to the U Spot device . The U Spot device then sends a session end and accounting update request message Session End and Account Update Req to the operator support server to notify it of the termination of the data session and to request completing accounting operations including billing and or crediting tracking functionality in the operator support server . The operator support server then communicates back to the U Spot device an account update confirmation message Update Cfm .

In some instances the operator support server is operable to perform operator initiated session termination by sending a Session End message to the U Spot device . The operator initiated session termination is performed when operator support server determines that one or more conditions occur for example heartbeat and or decoding errors. The U Spot device then sends a send message indication message Session End Ind to the end point device to notify it of the termination of the data session.

The end point device the U Spot client and the operator support server are substantially as described with regard to for example . These entities however are also operable to enable interactions within U Spot infrastructure that comprises the U Spot device and the wired wireless AP .

The U Spot device is substantially similar to the U Spot device as described with regard to for example . However some of the U Spot server related functionality performed in the U Spot device via the U Spot server is moved out of the U Spot device into the wired wireless AP . The U Spot device comprises a U Spot proxy to enable performing U Spot related operations via the U Spot device in conjunction with U Spot related functionality in the wired wireless AP . For example the U Spot proxy comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing dedicated U Spot related communication via the U Spot device to facilitate U Spot based communication by the end point device and or the wired wireless AP .

The wired wireless AP is substantially similar to the wired wireless AP as described in and is operable to enable providing network accessibility via the U Spot device . The wired wireless AP is operable for example to enable the U Spot device to access one of more available networks in the plurality of communication networks to enable communication with the operator support server . Unlike the wired wireless AP however the wired wireless AP is operable to perform at least some of the U Spot server related functionality via the network access server NAS U Spot server that is operable via the U Spot server as described in . For example the NAS U Spot server comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing U Spot dedicated network accessibility and server side control and or communication in the wired wireless AP to facilitate. The U Spot server is operable to enable the wired wireless AP to control U Spot based interactions via the U Spot device and or the end point device .

In operation the end point device joins a U Spot network established via the U Spot device when the devices are within operational proximity of each other. Where the end point device lacks direct network accessibility the end point device establishes data sessions via the U Spot device . The end point device sends via the U Spot client the Session Request message to the U Spot device to request establishment of data session via U Spot device s network connectivity. The U Spot device then sends via the U Spot proxy a forward request message Forward Request to the wired wireless AP indicating the session request made by the end point device . The wired wireless AP processes the Forward Request message and determines whether to enable network connectivity via the U Spot device . The wired wireless AP then sends an access request message Access Request message to the operator support server to indicate that a connection via the U Spot device is requested on behalf of another device the end point device . A challenge sequence substantially similar to the challenge sequence described in is then performed via a Challenge message a forward challenge message Forward Challenge message a Forward Challenge message the Response message and the Response Cfm and Account Req message . Once the challenge sequence and accounting request processing is performed successfully via the operator support server the operator support server communicates an access granted and account start message Access Granted and Account Start to the wired wireless AP to indicate that the end point device is granted network access and or to indicate that necessary accounting operations billing and or crediting are initiated. The wired wireless AP sends an access grant message Access Grant to the U Spot device and the U Spot device sends the Session Start message to the end point device to authorize initiation of the session. During action session the end point device sends and or receives data to the wired wireless AP via the U Spot device . Additionally periodic encoded heartbeat messages are utilized to monitor and or validate billing and or crediting operations during U Spot network servicing operations substantially as described with regard to for example .

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the U Spot device operable to perform U Spot initiated session termination . Where a session disconnection is detected via the U Spot device the U Spot device sends a detected disconnect indication message Detected Disonnect Ind to the wired wireless AP . The wired wireless AP communicates a session end and account update request message Session End and Account Update Req to the operator support server to notify it of the termination of the data session and to request completion of accounting operations including billing and or crediting tracking functions in the operator support server . The operator support server communicates an account update and termination confirmation message Account Update and Termination Cfm back to the wired wireless AP and the wired wireless AP forwards an Account Update message to the U Spot device .

In some instances the wired wireless AP is operable to perform AP initiated session termination . Where a session disconnection is detected via the wired wireless AP the wired wireless AP sends a Detected Disonnect and Account Update Req message to the operator support server to notify it of the termination of the data session and to request completing accounting operations including billing and or crediting tracking functionality in the operator support server . The operator support server communicates back to the wired wireless AP an Account Update and Termination Cfm message and the wired wireless AP forwards an Account Update message to the U Spot device .

In step a U Spot network is established via a user end point device. For example the U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to establish the U Spot networks and or substantially as described with regard to for example . In step the U Spot servicing device determines and offers available services in the corresponding U Spot network. For example the U Spot servicing devices and or determine services that are available via these devices in the U Spot networks and or . The determination of the availability of services is based on a plurality of factors comprising network access available via the U Spot servicing devices use and or operational requirements for performing tasks requested by users of the U Spot servicing devices within their capacity as user end point devices and or incentives offered and or accepted for providing the services. The determined services and or any additional criteria for availing such service are offered in the U Spot network via advertising beacon signals broadcast messages and multicast messages and or via personalized interface substantially as described with regard to for example . In step a service request is received by one or more U Spot servicing devices from one or more of the end point devices in the U Spot network. For example the communication devices and or request services in the U Spot networks and or via the U Spot servicing devices and or .

In step it is determined whether the requested U Spot service can be provided. For example the U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to determine whether the services requested by one or more communication devices are available. The determination is based for example on network access availability available processing power available bandwidth latency QOS competing requests among the communication devices and or users of the U Spot servicing devices and or and or incentives that are available for the U Spot servicing devices and or via the operator support server for example. In an exemplary aspect of the invention a handshake type of negotiation is performed between the U Spot servicing devices and the requesting communication devices to negotiate better incentive arrangement that is sufficient to overcome initial rejections of service. In instances where the requested U Spot service is unavailable the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a service rejection indication is communicated back to the requesting end point device.

Returning to step instances where the requested U Spot service is available the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the requested service is initiated via the U Spot network. In an exemplary of the invention crediting and or billing operations are performed to enable the U Spot servicing devices to receive pay and or credit and or to enable debiting accounts corresponding to the requesting end point devices substantially as described with regard to for example . Additionally crediting validation operations are performed to ensure that U Spot servicing devices are only accredited for actual services provided to the requesting end point devices substantially as described with regard to for example .

Various embodiments of the invention comprise a method and system for providing user spot U Spot services in a communication system. U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to establish the U Spot networks and or . In such U Spot networks the U Spot servicing devices are operable to determine services that are available to communication devices for example the communication devices and or when these devices are operable to become communicatively coupled to the U Spot servicing devices and or via wired and or wireless links. The services are based on network access data and or functionality that is available via the U Spot servicing devices and or . Availability of the services is advertised in the U Spot networks and or via the U Spot servicing devices and or . The advertisement operations are performed via beacons and or utilizing personalized interfaces. The secondary advertising server is operable to advertise content and or functionality via the advertising functionality in the U Spot servicing devices and or . The offering and or seeking of services in the U Spot networks and or is incentivized to the U Spot servicing devices and or and or to the communication devices and or . The U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to request and or receive pay and or credit for providing U Spot services. Additionally accounts corresponding to the communication devices and or are debited based on services received via the U Spot networks and or . One or more instances of the operator support server is operable to enable supporting and or managing U Spot servicing operations. The operator support server is operable for example to manage user accounts and or network access provided via the U Spot networks and or and or to manage crediting billing operations based on U Spot servicing operations.

The U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to establish the U Spot networks and or respectively. The U Spot networks and or are accessible by one or more of the communication devices and or when these devices are communicatively coupled to the U Spot servicing devices and or . The U Spot servicing devices are operable to determine one or more services that are provided via the U Spot networks and the determine services are advertised in the U Spot networks via personalized interfaces for example. The U Spot servicing devices and or the communication devices are operable to receive incentives for providing services within the U Spot networks. The incentives comprise network accessibility data accessibility and or bandwidth availability.

The U Spot servicing devices and or are also operable to receive payment and or credit for providing services within the U Spot networks. The U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to manage services provided in the U Spot networks. This management comprises for example providing access to blocking limiting and or modifying one or more of the determined services. The service management is based on a plurality of resources and or incentives associated with U Spot servicing devices and or and or with one or more of the requesting communication devices. The plurality of resources relevant to the service management comprise display capability audio processing capability video processing capability available memory available bandwidth and processing bandwidth. Communication among the U Spot servicing devices and or the communication devices is secured wherein various authentication and or validation operations are utilized to authenticate users network access and or billing crediting adjustments. The personalized interfaces used in the U Spot servicing devices and or are operable to enable secondary devices for example the secondary advertising server to advertise functionality and or content via the U Spot servicing devices.

Another embodiment of the invention may provide a machine and or computer readable storage and or medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for providing user spot U Spot services in a communication system.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

