---

title: Advertisements driven by user
abstract: Systems, methods and computer-storage media are provided for distributing advertising content with improved accessibility for users and with a reduced-cost architecture for the web site provider. An advertising service directory (ASD) intercepts advertising requests containing registered words and phrases so that their location can be determined in a data structure. Through user profile, web site preference or additional information in the reference data structure, the delivery format of the content can also be detected. The request is then forwarded to the provider, removing the need for the first web site provider to actually serve the advertising content. Users can use a phrase or format in order to “push” for advertising content. Thus, brand names and products can be accessible without the need to bid for ad placement. The effectiveness of advertising across many platforms can be increased by offering users an easier-to-remember retrieval method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571923&OS=08571923&RS=08571923
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08571923
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080424
---
As search engines have become more and more precise with their efficiency and accuracy increasing numbers of users have relied upon them to locate specific resources. However the current system of advertising on search engines through a bidding process coupled with the generic nature of most search queries decreases the likelihood that a user looking for a specific product will be able to easily locate it. Users that notice a billboard bus advertisement or broadcast spot will be less likely to access further information regarding a product about which they have heard or seen. This decreases the effectiveness of other advertising campaigns and allows the high bidders on search engine advertisements to circumvent those companies who have established identifiable brands and products. If a user encounters too much difficulty in locating information about the specific product that person is likely to simply investigate a competitor s offering. The relatively cumbersome nature of serving advertising content through a centralized storehouse maintained by the web site provider itself leads to reinforcement of the advertisement by bid system.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods systems and computer storage media for distributing advertising content in a manner that improves accessibility for users while reducing the cost associated with architecture for the initial web site provider. By introducing an architecture in which users can push for advertising content brand names and products can be accessible without the need to bid for advertising placement. The effectiveness of advertising across many platforms can be increased by offering users a unified manner in which to request advertisements and product information.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. An advertising service directory ASD intercepts advertising requests containing registered words and phrases so that the location of those advertisements can be determined in a data structure. The requests can be specially formatted to trigger the interception. Once received by the ASD the request is referenced to determine the location to which the request should be sent. Either through user profile web site preference or additional information in the reference data structure the delivery format of the content can also be detected. The request is then forwarded to the content provider removing the need for the initial web site provider to actually serve the content and returning the service function to the entity that is advertising.

The subject matter of the present invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods systems and computer storage media having computer executable instructions embodied thereon that when executed perform methods for de centralizing advertising content service while at the same time increasing accessibility for brand and product information. An advertising service directory ASD translates advertising requests from their registered words and phrases to a location from which the advertising should be retrieved. The requests can be specially formatted to so that the ASD intercepts the request and looks up the corresponding address. Through user profile web site preference or additional information in the data structure the delivery format of the content can also be detected. Rather than have the first web site provider to actually serve the advertising content forwarding the request to a provider such as the company itself or an advertising agency allows for a distributed model of delivery.

Having briefly described an overview of embodiments of the present invention an exemplary operating environment suitable for implementing embodiments hereof is described below.

Referring to the drawings in general and initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of modules modules illustrated.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally program modules including routines programs objects modules data structures and the like refer to code that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including hand held devices consumer electronics general purpose computers specialty computing devices etc. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

With continued reference to computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation modules input output I O ports I O modules and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various modules is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation module such as a display device to be an I O module. Also processors have memory. The inventors hereof recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop hand held device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computer or computing device. 

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical or holographic media magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices carrier wave or any other medium that can be used to encode desired information and be accessed by computing device .

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable non removable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O modules . Presentation module s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation modules include a display device speaker printing module vibrating module etc. I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O modules some of which may be built in. Illustrative modules include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device etc.

Turning now to a block diagram of a exemplary system for coordinating the delivery of online advertising is shown. The system has a number of exemplary users depicted which are intended to be illustrative and should not be construed as a limitation of the claimed embodiments. A user on a search engine a user logged on to a web site and a user on a social networking web site are all shown. These are not meant to convey a single user of each type but to show different categories of users that can employ the claimed systems methods and media. The claimed embodiments do not require all or any of these categories. There are other categories of users that may not be shown that are contemplated within the scope of the present invention.

User can be a user on a search engine web site such as a user on www.live.com provided by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Alternatively user can be a user on any one of a number of other search engine web sites. User can be on any social networking web site that allows users to login in to one or more networks. Illustrative social networking sites are served for the purpose of sharing files fostering groups of common acquaintances or building online communities based on common attributes and activities. User is a user more generically logged on to any web site. The primary categorization of user is that a user profile is available that has minimal information about a user which in turn can be passed on when an advertising content request has been made. The type of web site on which user is logged does not restrict use of the claimed embodiments. Instead it is merely indicative of some sort of log on procedure profile storage and information exchange beneficial to complete an advertising request.

Continuing with an advertising service directory ASD is available to receive requests from the various types of users and . ASD need not be in direct connection with users placing advertising requests but should be available for requests through an established logical connection via the internet as is typically the case with web servers. ASD has three component modules depicted a reception module a reference module and a direction module . The three modules are not to be construed as the only modules present on ASD but could be three of many. Modules and can be distinct as depicted in the figure or can have overlapping operations which perform the necessary functions outlined below.

Reception module receives advertising requests from a user such as user or . Reception module can be receive requests from a particular subset of users or can receive requests from any users. Likewise reception module may only receive requests sent from a particular web server or group of servers. The request can be specially formatted or may merely include a registered word or phrase that is recognized as a word or phrase catalogued on advertising service directory . Upon receiving an advertising request reception module forwards the request to reference module . Reference module contains a data structure that associates registered words and phrases with a location or address of an advertising provider. The words and phrases associated are not of a generic nature such as cars or shoes but are specific to certain brands and manufacturers. The words and phrases associated may be much more specific than a single provider such as the name of one particular shoe or a model of a car that the manufacturer sells. Direction module then sends the request for advertising to the location determined by reference module and completes the advertising request. Thus targeted advertising specific to a product an online user wishes to learn more about is readily accessible and properly retrieved for the user.

A first business a second business and a third business as well as an advertising publisher are shown in . Each of businesses and are meant to be exemplary in nature and not limiting the scope of the claimed embodiments. Many more than three businesses can receive requests from ASD while the total need not even be as many as three. Advertising publisher is intended to convey a category of advertising entities that provide online advertising content. Advertising publisher could be an agency that simply serves the content to the internet. Likewise publisher could be a full service advertising agency that creates publishes and updates content in a comprehensive way for businesses. The fact that there is a single publisher shown in not intended to require a single advertising publisher is necessary to practice the claimed embodiments of the present invention. Rather it should be understood that hundreds or even thousands of advertising publishers could be included. The only requirement of the businesses publishers and advertising coordinated by ASD is that the content be for specific products services or businesses.

The requests received by advertising service directory can be sent to the businesses without the need for a bidding process for proper direction. Unlike the results of a search engine which often times are trying to parse the intent of a search of generic terms the embodiments of the present invention are specific to registered words and phrases. Therefore these embodiments establish a more natural one to one mapping system for advertising content to terms. The advertising is also distributed allowing businesses and publishers to host the advertisements directly. This removes the need for centralized stores of advertising content and enables a lower cost architecture for sites such as search engines. The claimed embodiments also make it easier for a user to receive more information in a simple way. Using a single site or a formatted phrased to reach all sorts of products through advertisements allows cross advertising and easy recall. In an example for an advertisement for a particular car a simple phrase such as Push Make Model could complete the request. This is easier to recall than using a long web site such as www.brandmakeandmodelcar.com or www.brand.com makeandmodel. Over time if the method is reinforced in a consistent way consumers grow accustomed to completing the request. Therefore advertising in other forms can include a phrase for the consumer to generate more information e.g. To learn more PUSH MAKE MODEL becomes a familiar method and the user knows where and how to complete the request .

While ASD is shown connected through numerous types of web sites and to numerous businesses and publishers the implementation can be more specific. For example a search engine web site could connect to one ASD as the only means of providing the directory. Reference module can be limited to the number of vendors that it can catalogue so there may be a number of different ASD servers needed to implement the given system. In this instance the particular server that must be contacted may be further categorized by any means available. As an illustration requests for cars may go to a first ADS device shoes may go to a second and computers may go to a third. Likewise an entire bank of servers may be required and an intermediary ASD server may be required in order to further direct the request to a lower level ASD that has a higher degree of granularity.

Turning to a flowchart showing a method for generically requesting advertising content according to embodiments of the present invention is shown. At a step a keyword is received that is contained on an advertising service directory. This can be substantially similar to ASD showing keywords found on data structure of the previous figure. The fact that the keyword is available on a data structure in module can be noted with a triggering word or phrase such as PUSH AD followed by the term. This is not necessary to practice the invention however as a list of registered terms and phrases could be maintained so that applicable requests are properly intercepted.

At a step a format in which the user should receive the ad is detected. This can be accomplished a number of ways. For example if the request is sent from a web site where a user is logged on there will be an associated user profile corresponding to that user. It may be a part of the user profile to indicate if the user prefers e mails or displays in a certain delivery format and this indication can be part of the request. Likewise there may be a default setting for any user sending a request from a particular web site based on that web site s default advertising methods.

At a step ASD is contacted with the request for advertising as a result of the registered keyword or phrase being entered. At a step the request is translated to an associated address to which the provider should be directed. This may be a single address for any request for a specific company or it may differ depending on the delivery format of the content. Similar to a domain name server which translates domain names to physical addresses this translation will allow the ASD to provide a physical address suitable for the advertising content provider. Typically this will result in the advertising request being sent to a provider level address corresponding to a domain name server for the company advertising agency or web provider at a step . The address of the specific device to which is should be routed then follows normal internet conventions after reaching an entry point for the provider.

Turning to a flowchart showing a method for requesting advertising content with a specifically formatted request is shown according to embodiments of the present invention. At a step a specifically formatted phrase is received that is a format designated by ASD . This could be in the form of a triggering phrase such as PUSH as mentioned previously or could be through the use of formatting on the web site. Examples include using a check box or radio button to indicate that the phrase being submitted is one of the these registered words or phrases. A field where terms may be entered would simply have the appropriate check box or radio button showing that by checking that option the user is trying to push a specified ad. Another potential means of specifically formatting the request is to provide a different text field altogether from which the request is sent. Therefore a term typed in the main text field is a regular web search while the same term in the push ad field would contact the ASD directly.

At a step the format in which the user should receive the advertising content is detected. This detection can be substantially similar to the detection techniques discussed for step as given above. As was the case with steps and contact the ASD determine the location to which the request should be directed and direct the request to the location.

Turning to a flowchart of a method for users logged on to a web site to request advertising content according to embodiments of the present invention is shown. At a step a user logs on to a web site. Again the type of web site is unimportant. For the sake of illustration a social networking web site will be described however this is a not a limitation of the method shown in the figure. Once the user logs on to the web site a subsequent advertising request is made. This could be accomplished one of several ways as described above through special check boxes buttons or fields. Alternatively the user s profile could be utilized to enable the request. A user could set up preferences that allow certain products or services to be automatically pushed for advertising content once entered. The advertising request need not come from text entered by the user at all. On a site requiring a log in specified portions of the site could be used as a virtual store for pushed advertisements. Yet another possibility is the ability of one user to forward an advertising request to another user for a particular product or service the first user found interesting. The next time the second user logs in to the web site that user would have the option of pushing the advertising request.

At a step an application programming interface codes a request to a specific format and delivery method. This again stems from user profile settings options selected by the user on the particular request and or in relation to the specific request as deemed by the web site or the advertising vendor. For example Company A could have all requests involving its name coded in a particular way to reach that company through ASD and to provide particular delivery method. The user may have the chance to override that through options present on that user s profile or to send the request as the company would have it sent.

At a step the request as formatted by the API is sent to ASD . The determination of a location to which the request should be sent is made a step . Similar to the previously outlined methods the request is redirected at a step . The advertisement sent with the proper delivery method is then delivered to a user at a step .

The present invention has been described in relation to particular embodiments which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its scope.

From the foregoing it will be seen that this invention is one well adapted to attain all the ends and objects set forth above together with other advantages which are obvious and inherent to the system and method. It will be understood that certain features and sub combinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and sub combinations. This is contemplated by and is within the scope of the claims.

