---

title: Methods and devices for remote processing of messages, and performing user tracking and monitoring with respect to data originating from a mobile communication device
abstract: In part the invention relates to a method of providing remote access to data generated by a mobile device having a device storage element. The method includes the steps of monitoring the mobile device such that changes in local data resident in the device storage element are detected using a client application installed on the mobile device, wherein the changes in the local data accumulate during a period of time to comprise at least one change set; transmitting the at least one change set over a network; receiving the at least one change set at a remote server, the remote server having a remote storage element; and processing the at least one change set using a server application to generate user accessible remote data. Various embodiments further involve remote text message archives, positional and temporal information associated with change sets, alert generation by trigger events, and archiving with associated searchable meta-data for data mining.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768307&OS=08768307&RS=08768307
owner: ZeroTouch Digital, Inc.
number: 08768307
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 108 284 filed on Apr. 23 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Various embodiments of the invention relate to monitoring a mobile communication device to detect changes and provide enhanced services to the user of the device. Specifically various embodiments relate to the automatic processing transmission tracking and or remote storing of information originating from captured by or otherwise accessible on the mobile device.

Mobile communication devices such as phones laptops personal digital assistants content players and other similar devices are now pervasive in many parts of the world. In many developing countries since cellular phone based systems are easier to install and offer the immediate benefit of portability to the end users a landline based telephone system is not being developed. As a result given the rising dominance of mobile devices relative to land lines many changes are occurring in the telecommunication business.

On a related note as more and more features are being integrated into modern communications devices cameras positioning systems video and music playing functionality etc. end users are relying on these devices and using them as a multi function replacement for many application specific electronic devices. However storing information on a mobile devices and using it as a replacement for various application specific devices such as a camera or a global position system GPS device raises challenges and problems not found in the stand alone devices.

Therefore a need exists for devices methods and systems that address the underlying data management challenges and user tracking options associated with the worldwide shift toward using mobile communication devices in lieu of land lines and other application specific devices.

In general embodiments of the invention use various communication protocols and networks to monitor changes in certain categories of data associated with resident on captured using or otherwise generated by a user s mobile device. In addition embodiments also relate to the use of any type of data that is processed remotely in response to data sent from the mobile device. As a result the embodiments of the invention relate to any type of data suitable for use by mobile devices and processors. The data can include but is not limited to any suitable type of data such as metadata local data device generated data user generated or inputted data and various types of derived data all of which may be the same different or overlap with respect to data type in some embodiments.

In one embodiment the invention relates to systems methods and devices that monitor changes in a mobile device and enable automatic or user controlled processing or archiving and tracking of information generated using the mobile device. In part one embodiment relates to monitoring changes in certain metadata such as the local data using the temporal data and the positional data the change in local data indicative of a user action. The underlying metadata associated with the information generated using the mobile device is also stored for processing in one embodiment. According to one embodiment device generated data user generated or inputted data and various types of derived data all of which may be types of metadata are also stored processed and transmitted. Some of these different types of data are discussed in more detail below.

Further according to one embodiment the information generated using the mobile device is transmitted to a remote user accessible device for processing and or storage. The information generated using the mobile device may include a change set indicative of new information existing on the mobile device relative to a previous point in time. The change set can include but is not limited to change event data any changed data or a portion thereof and any related metadata. In addition systems and methods described herein may be bi directional such that data can be both sent from and sent to a mobile device.

In one preferred embodiment the invention allows photos generated using the camera of or otherwise transmitted to the mobile device to be subsequently transmitted to a remote location for further processing or archiving. In one specific preferred embodiment the further processing includes moving a user s pictures from their mobile device to a browser accessible photo archive in response to a user action or automatically as configured by the device user. The use of the camera features associated with many mobile devices allows embodiments of the invention to be extended to any imaging based capture system. For example the mobile device can be used to image or photograph a symbol such as a barcode. Once captured the barcode can be routed to a remote server or remote peer for processing by a digital imaging application. In this way a barcode can be used to order goods and services using one embodiment of the invention.

The techniques disclosed herein enable the remote archiving or remote processing of any suitable type of file data or content generated using a mobile device. Thus logs for calls made and received text messages personal notes voice memos such as dictation files emails voicemails pictures and other content or media files generated using a mobile device can all be processed remotely or archived as desired using the methods and devices disclosed herein. In one embodiment the methods described herein are activated in response to a single user action. This single user action can include but is not limited to turning the mobile device on selecting an application from a menu sending an email taking a picture sending a text message listening to a voicemail writing a note generating a change in the state of the mobile device and transmitting or receiving local data.

An exemplary network based system for implementing an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . Specifically as shown in the figure a mobile communication device alternatively a first peer is shown that includes a software application such as a client application or a peer to peer based application suitable for performing many of the transmission data streaming and switching functions described in more detail below. Although the software application can be a client application the recital of the term client application can also be considered to encompass a peer to peer application which is also suitable for use with the methods and devices described herein.

The client application is configured to be data channel independent when selecting remote peers or processing elements to transmit and or process data. As used herein a peer is a device processing element program or other software element that includes at least one of a software component or a hardware component suitable for transmitting data and communicating with other software or hardware devices. For example a peer can include but is not limited to the mobile device the client application a server a browser a database a processing application a digital video recorder a cable set top box an online photo archive or any other suitable software or hardware element that can communicate with a mobile device.

Returning to the mobile device is shown transmitting data or otherwise communicating via a device network or via the Internet . In turn both the device network and the Internet are in communication with a plurality of processing elements or peers generally . This group of peers is in communication with an application server alternatively a second peer that includes a processing application . The processing elements or peers receive local data or a version thereof from the mobile device . Additional detail relating to the type characteristics organization and communication links between suitable peers or processing links is discussed below in more detail with respect to and .

The processing elements or peer group can include multiple servers. This follows because as local data is transmitted from the mobile device to a peer group client application or related service the data need not go to the same peer each and every time. For example that peer may be under a load so the client application or related service may transmit via a different server. Thus a handheld peer such a mobile device running the client application can arbitrarily choose a peer from the group of peers that has a server implementation such as the HTTP email or SMS servers shown in to which it wants to connect.

In one preferred embodiment the mobile device transmits data for remote processing using a connectionless protocol such as a datagram based protocol. According to one embodiment a datagram is a self contained independent data element carrying sufficient information to be routed from a mobile device to a destination peer application server or processing application without reliance on earlier exchanges between the mobile device and destination processing element and the transporting network.

The client application can include certain routines and modules suitable for modifying data sent from the mobile device to include headers wrappers or other routing information that identifies the data as coming through a particular channel provides mobile device authentication information such as the International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI identifying where the data needs to go identifying where the data is coming from identifying the user of the mobile device and identifying where the local data or a version thereof is supposed to be sent. However the IMEI is not the only means of authenticating information and any suitable secure identifier can be used in a given embodiment.

The client application typically operates using a connectionless approach such that a persistent connection is not needed to function. Instead when an opportunity exists to send data using any particular channel or protocol the device uses that opportunity to offload local data and transmit to a remote device. Thus local data or a version thereof can be sent from the mobile device using a data stream broadcasts email text messages TCP IP HTTP FTP datagrams or other suitable data transfer protocols or transmission channels.

In addition in one embodiment the client application uses a data flow or streams across one or more peers to achieve certain data transport and processing objectives. The client application executes across the sum of peers required to achieve the end objective of either processing or archiving data in one embodiment. This execution across one or more peers can be performed using a routing module resident on a peer or within the client application. The function of the routing module is to capture the change set and communicate the change set once the network connection is available to transmit reliable data. Thus the routing module employs a connectionless protocol in one embodiment.

Since the systems and methods described herein are designed to operate with mobile devices such as smart phones and other electronic devices that include user interfaces the client application also includes various user querying features and user controlled settings. For example it is inherent in many mobile devices to include a query language with certain built in questions such as Do you want to send this message This feature and other more advanced features in graphic user interfaces incorporated in many mobile devices allow fillable forms and other queries to be presented to a mobile device user. Also the device may include certain automatic settings for the user s email and other applications such as whether or not the user is on vacation or at a particular project site.

The data captured using the queries forms and automatic settings can constitute metadata that can be used to selectively process or display other types of data. Thus if a user indicates that they are at location XYZ a week that metadata may become associated with the local data generated by the user during the relevant one week period at that location. Although GPS location may be able to give the address of the location or derive the building address and store that as metadata indicating that the user was working in room at location XYZ may require input on the part of the user. Also if a user is on vacation this is something that needs to be inputted into the system in order to become metadata that can be associated with data captured or otherwise generated using the mobile device.

The client application can be written in various programming languages such as objective C or Java. The client application can also be implemented on a mobile device using standard Borne shell scripts. According to one embodiment a shell script is a program interpreted and executed by a shell or other interpreter. However any suitable programming language can be used to design a client application that performs as outlined herein.

From the mobile device s and client application s perspective the device selects the peer group and ensures that portions of local data combine as a final product that forms a single archive or other data structure of all change sets in that particular device. This resultant transmission of local data to an application server may occur through different pathways or streams of data sent through a group of peers . The archive is consolidated at a remote location such as an archive of processing server . In one embodiment active consolidation of portions of local data at a remote location occurs within a peer group through a series of data flows or streams using a connectionless protocol.

The processing application can be any suitable software application that receives processes converts archives or otherwise interacts with data such as local data or a portion thereof originating from the mobile device . Alternatively the processing application can be any suitable software application that generates processed local data such as a copy of local data .

Before describing the flow of information in greater detail with respect to the elements depicted in the overall system one skilled in the art should recognize that although a device network mobile communication device a group of processing elements and an application server are all shown as separate and distinct from the Internet all of the elements shown in can all be linked by or exist within the Internet or any suitable subset thereof or other type of network without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention.

The client application installed on the mobile communication device includes modules and routines to accomplish several novel objectives. The first objective is monitoring changes on the mobile devices . The second objective is to transmit data associated with a change in the data content of the mobile device . The application monitors data changes to detect anything that is changing in that mobile device environment. For example these changes can involve contacts events insertions deletions modifications calls made calls received text messages sent text messages received notes and other content changes voice memos voicemail that is stored as local data on the mobile device GPS tag data photos and other different modalities of user generated content that can occur on a handset.

Since the second function of the mobile device is to offload data there is a temporal period in which the client application begins accumulating one or more change sets such that when client application or related service can make a valid connection the client application or related service can start pushing such one or more change sets to processing element such as an SMS server or an application server.

The client application can process memos voicemails pictures text messages and other file types. The application streams a subset of local data and archives it offline such that they can be accessed through a browser a proprietary application a web server or other suitable device or software component in one embodiment.

Returning to a mobile communication device is shown. This device can be any suitable communication device now known or otherwise developed in the future such as a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone media player and laptop. In general in a preferred embodiment the device includes a processing element a storage element such as a hard drive or flash memory a transmitter and other suitable hardware and software as appropriate to transmit or otherwise stream data from the device to a remote location a peer or other remote processing element.

Typically the mobile device includes an input device. This input is responsive to a user action. The device also includes a storage element. The storage element is sized to store local data . Local data can include any data element stored on captured by or otherwise accessible in the device. Examples of local data include but are not limited to pictures media files emails text messages voicemails memos notes and logs.

A client application such as a transmission application is stored within the storage element. The client application is designed to transmit at least a portion of local data a media file to a remote location such as the application server . A processor is also part of the mobile device . The processor is programmed to detect changes in any local data such as media files stored in the storage element and initialize the transmission application in response to a user action. The user action may include a preset signal to automatically archive all data on the devices or a specific command by a user to transmit the local data to the remote application server for handling by the processing application. The mobile device also includes a transmitter in electronic communication with the processor and the storage.

As shown in a mobile device includes a client application such as the client application discussed above with respect to . The client application resident on the mobile device may include a particular application programming interface API that communicates and performs certain functions relative to software and or hardware components that are specific to the mobile device . In contrast certain peers depicted in such as HTTP server are configured such that the underlying software running on the server is exclusively under the control of the service offering that is paired with the client application.

Thus certain peers may be exclusively controlled by a service offering that works with the client application such as remote photo archiving service certain peers may be independent of any service offering and simply route information from the client application or a combination of both of these options such that some components of the peer are controlled by the service offering while others are not.

As discussed above the mobile device captures or receives various types of content such as visual voicemail pictures notes SMS sent received a call log emails and various other types of local data that change based on the activities and subscriptions of the mobile device user. The local data also includes meta data and version information associated with each of the foregoing files and any other files that can be stored on or generated using the mobile device. In order to transmit process and route local data such as data streams and change sets from the mobile device the device communicates with various processing elements or peers as shown in .

Specifically as shown in the mobile device initially communicates with one of an HTTP server an email server or an SMS server . The role of the HTTP server is to send HTTP messages and receive HTTP messages which are forwarded to other servers or devices as shown in the figure. The HTTP server is present to support different firewall constraints as needed for some embodiments. The email server sends and receives email messages. Finally the SMS server sends SMS messages and receives SMS messages. Each of the HTTP server email server and SMS server all communicate and pass data through a device interpreter .

In one embodiment a device interpreter is used because the underlying data sent from the mobile device such as but not limited to emails HTTP messages and or SMS messages may vary based on the type of mobile device being used and the configuration of the client application. Thus a phone may transmit change set data differently than an mp3 player.

As a result a device interpreter is used to receive understand and translate or convert the relevant data such as change sets and other content. Thus different types of data that originate from a mobile device can be interpreted on a device by device basis. Thus data streams that originate from a mobile device can be standardized using an interpreter . In one embodiment the protocols at issue are device specific. Accordingly an interpreter or interpreter module would be installed on a server for each class of devices. Once the relevant data from the mobile device has been interpreted depending on the type of data at issue in one embodiment the data will continue to the natural language processing server the database server or both.

The natural language processing NLP server performs services for translating basic natural language commands and queries into a data flow or data stream. As an example the client application can act as a remote control using a text messaging modality. Thus instead of logging into a browser and remotely accessing a service such as an online photo archive a user of the mobile device can instead simply send a message that is routed from the client application to the NLP server .

Once received by the NLP server the server processes the text message and sends out a signal to accomplish an objective. With respect to the photo archive example the signal may be to turn off the receive feature of a user s photo archive account such that photos are not automatically archived until another text message or other user input is sent to turn the particular account feature back on so that it can receive data photos created as local data from the mobile device . In addition to the NLP server the group of peers can also include a data repository in the form of a database server .

The database server can store copies of or processed versions of any type of local data generated on the mobile device . The database also includes software that grants access to various different file stores and databases that are used by the peers that work in conjunction with the client application. Thus if a photo archive service or voicemail archive service is being offered the client application sends out the data and the database server acts as a remote location where a copy of the data is stored. For example the database archive can function as the archive of all the change sets associated with one or more mobile devices. In one embodiment the database is a mySQL database. In turn the database server is in communication with a data flow server and a control server .

The data flow or data stream server provides services for translating basic mobile device changes sets into basic a data flow or data stream which will be customized in response to input from the control server . As discussed above multiple data streams such as change sets are created using a mobile device with a client application. Services for insuring all strands are processed audited logged and or archived are provided by the control server . The customization and regulation processes that oversee and control the service offerings such as photo archiving paired with the client application are performed by the control server . For example the control server may access the database server to identify which mobile device users subscribe to different client application based services in order to control which functionalities are made available to those users.

The last tier of peers shown in includes an archive server a web server a desktop archive and a gallery server . The archive server provides services to upload pictures to a third party picture archive. The web server provides services to upload content to an application suitable for arranging files and activities in time such as an event calendaring application such as the interface shown in . In part this is facilitated by the integration of time stamp data in the local data that is sent or received. The integration of time stamp data typically within the meta data in a given file allows for tracking of the events associated with the generation of local data and the local data itself.

The desktop archive provides services to upload content to personal desktops such as sending photo repositories to a home computer set top cable box or other user controlled electronic devices. Finally the gallery server provides services to upload pictures to third party gallery web based photo album. In one embodiment the gallery server automatically prepares a printed photo album based on a selection of photo transmitted from a user s mobile device .

In one embodiment shows a peer system. Thus a peer system is composed of a topology of remote peers capable of processing remotely generated SMS or other message related change set archives and remote devices capable of generating such sets in one embodiment.

In a screenshot of a user interface of a home screen is illustrated. Similarly in a screenshot of a user interface of a login screen is illustrated. In one embodiment the login interface requires the input of an account identifier such as a mobile number a password and a unique code randomly generated to prevent automated scripting and web robots from improperly accessing the system.

In a screenshot of a user interface that displays various types of archived content and files . Specifically as shown in the screenshot call logs digital photos voicemail messages and other versions of local data generated using mobile device are shown. Each type of media content stored may be represented by an icon identifier indicating which type of content the archive is i.e. a voice conversation text or instant messaging conversation digital image etc. Filter and highlight controls allow a user to apply a selection criteria to the archive data to retrieve and display only the content desired. The color highlight controls may present the entered keywords found in distinct colors facilitating the viewing of desired content. The content may be arranged in a time line fashion that allows a user to scroll through the archived content by hour day or month .

In a screenshot of a user interface showing a digital photo being accessed using the interface is illustrated. Selecting an image icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying a thumbnail image of the selected file. Clicking on the thumbnail image itself will open up the full image file in its original size. Similarly in a screenshot of a user interface that shows a call log record being accessed is illustrated. Clicking on the call log icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying call log info from the record selected.

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated showing the selection of a Note record. Clicking on the Note icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying the contents of the Note record selected. The displayed contents may also include metadata or other data showing time and date of creation last viewing last edit etc. In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated showing the selection of a voicemail record. Clicking on the voicemail icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying voicemail log info from the record selected.

In turn play controls are displayed with in the bubble allowing the user to play pause and control the volume of the playback of the voicemail record. In one embodiment selection of the voicemail icon automatically initiates the playback of the record. Metadata and other data about the voicemail record may also be displayed such as call time length data and status messages regarding the playback of the message e.g. unheard new old previously started listened completely etc. .

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated showing accessing a talk record that includes SMS based instructions to turn a Flickr account on. Clicking on the talk log icon initiates a pop up bubble displaying call log info from the record selected. The contents of the bubble display the text of SMS messages sent to the relevant control peer. The ability to turn features on or off can be extended to any type of programmable interaction. Thus out of the office or on vacation auto reply messages can be controlled remotely using various commands such as text message with appropriately formatted instructions.

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated after applying the data filter controls to display only records containing the keyword IMG for image files. After applying the filter only the IMG records are displayed in their locations in the time line chronology.

Although various chronography based embodiments are suitable for representing metadata in the form of spatial data chronology is not the only possible representation for spatial metadata. For example a calendar representation can be used pictures generated using the device can be grouped under seasonal headings Spring Summer Fall and Winter or a project specific representation can be used. With respect to the project specific representation these can be used by an insurance adjuster a bidder a purchaser for a store law enforcement personnel or other individuals using their mobile device to capture data based on the techniques shown herein. Thus the methods and system can represent data in any suitable format advantageous for individual jobs and projects. In addition since other types of metadata discussed throughout local data device generated data user generated or inputted data and various types of derived data may benefit from being plotted sorted or otherwise represented to the user the interface and display applications for representing local data and processed versions thereof are infinitely customizable. This customizability can be a function of context metadata type local data at issue user preference or the other data relevant parameters discussed herein.

In a screenshot of a user interface is illustrated after applying the color highlight controls to the archive. In the illustrative example the keyword IMG is entered in the first highlight control dialog box . The icons for records containing the keyword IMG are displayed in a first color . The keyword talk is entered in the second highlight control box resulting in the talk records being highlighted in a second color . The keyword 1223 is entered in the third highlight control box resulting in the records containing the keyword being highlighted in a third color . The keyword 232 is entered in the forth highlight control box resulting in the records containing the keyword being highlighted in a forth color .

Many free and pay per use online photo galleries exist that allow a user to share photos with others. One example of such an archive is the popular Flickr service. In one embodiment the application client automatically transmits photos captured by or otherwise generated using the mobile device to a user s photo gallery account with the online archive provider. In another embodiment a user or a friend of the user may utilize a digital video recorder or cable set top box that serves as the remote location and application server to which a version of local data such as pictures and videos can be sent. In addition to archiving photos to an online photo gallery or repository the client also allows users to push pull or otherwise stream data to other users of the service.

As noted above the ability to send mobile device generated or received data through a collection of peers for remote processing can be extended to various different applications. Specifically as discussed in more detail below with respect to a messaging specific system a metadata based time and location tracking system e.g. one suitable for implementing a child protection service and a related third party monitoring method can be implemented using some of the components discussed above and below.

Initially with respect to these additional embodiments the message processing embodiment is described relative to . Specifically an exemplary network based system for implementing a message processing embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . In a preferred embodiment messages refers to text messages such as but not limited to SMS messages or instant messages IM . However with respect to the message processing embodiments depicted in and in messages can include but are not limited to text messages emails electronic document files instant messages PDFs and any other suitable human or machine readable character containing electronic media files.

As shown in an exemplary peer to peer message processing system is shown. In one embodiment message processing includes but is not limited to message archiving performing text to speech conversion with respect to text messages transmitting and storing metadata associated with messages enabling message archive searching using a remote peer and translating and processing messages such that they can be relayed between different mobile devices in a manner that is substantially transparent to the end user.

Returning to a mobile communication device alternatively a first peer is shown that includes a software application such as the client application or a peer to peer based application suitable for performing many of the transmission data streaming user querying and switching functions described in more detail above with respect to local messages . The application is suitable for interacting with transmitting information to and receiving information from a message processing server alternatively a second peer or message archive as shown in the figure. The peer to peer or client application can also include a query module QM suitable for presenting fellable forms and questions to the device user.

At a high level in one preferred embodiment the mobile device based system can function as a text messaging archive that allows for the archiving or remote processing of sent and received text messages such as local messages using a mobile device . As a result of the remote processing or archiving of one or more local messages one or more processed messages results. This is achieved using the change sets and data streams discussed above. In addition the associated metadata can be routed to a remote location such as a processing server or message archive to enhance the processing features and options available to a user as discussed below.

In one embodiment this archiving and or remote processing can be achieved by routing or selectively processing the local message s using various peers P P and P for example that are connected within or to a network such as but not limited to the Internet a WAN a LAN or other secured and unsecured networks. In one embodiment no more than two peers are required and such two pairs can include the mobile device and the message processing server .

The messages that originate on or that are received by the mobile device the local messages are processed and routed using one or more peers present in a network such that they are processed or archived using message processing server . The processing server or message archive can itself have various modules connected to it directly or resident in its associated memory. Alternatively the modules or the processing server can be implemented using one or more remote peers such as P P and P.

Various examples of suitable processing modules are depicted in and discussed below in more detail. As used herein a module refers to software hardware or firmware suitable for performing a specific data processing or data transmission task. Typically in a preferred embodiment a module refers to a software routine program or other memory resident application suitable for receiving and processing instructions or various types of data with respect to files change sets data streams and other types of mobile device information.

With respect in one embodiment the message processing server is an archive by which the mobile device can selectively access search or otherwise interact with the processed messages . The message processing server can also communicate and transmit processed messages metadata associated with the same and other information to various third party peers . These third party peers can include devices that are controlled by the user or controlled by other people.

As an example the third party peers can include but are not limited to laptops computers fax machines and telephones as shown. However suitable third party peers that can communicate with and exchange data with the message processing server can also include other mobile devices PDAs blackberries computers an iPhone smart phones web applications copiers cable set top boxes and other digital devices.

As an example a user of the mobile device can generate or receive a text message and then archive it. Alternatively the user can access the remotely stored text message or those on the phone and have them routed to a fax machine for printing. In addition the user of the mobile device can access an interface on the mobile device and send one or more text message to a colleague s mobile device. The system and related system embodiment shown in more detail in can include a translation and interface module that allows the device user such as an iPhone user to send archived text messages to a colleague s Blackberry or other mobile devices in a format suited for the respective device. The systems can also perforin various other functions and value added services with respect to various classes of messages using different modules such as but not limited to those shown in .

These additional mobile device initiated operations can themselves be initiated using a message such as a text message that is processed by an appropriate module such a control module. This is analogous to the use of a text message to control a web service such as Flickr discussed above. Thus the user of the mobile device can send a text messages to the archive server that recites send all text messages with project in them to John Smith. The control module would interact with other modules such as a metadata search module and a translation module and interface module and send all of the relevant text messages to John Smith in a format compatible with his mobile device using various peers and other modules as necessary. If problems arise the control system will query the user via a message.

Prior to considering the exemplary system and related modules depicted in it is informative to consider the role of metadata and its relationship with other types of data in various embodiments of the invention. At one level metadata is data that describes certain underlying data of interest. Both the client application and the processing servers or peers described herein can process store transmit enhance and otherwise use metadata local data device generated data user generated or inputted data and various types of derived data all of which may be the same as different from or overlap with the data type or types in some embodiments in various ways.

Although there may be overlap among the various types of data described herein it is useful to consider some specific non limiting examples of the type of data that can be used by different system and method embodiments. Device generated data can include but is not limited to data that is generated by a sensor electronic component or otherwise modified or processed by the mobile device. Thus as an example device generated data can include but is not limited to location data GPS data longitude latitude altitude signal strength accelerometer data barometric pressure browsing history altitude data battery level time and other device generated information.

User generated or inputted data can include but is not limited to data that is generated or processed in response to a user action. Thus as an example user generated or inputted data can include but is not limited to answers to forms or queries automatic settings such as in or out of the office settings keystrokes user typed characters user commands user macros and other user generated or input information.

In one specific embodiment a user can take a global position or other location reading with their mobile device and indicate to the device or a remote peer that the relevant coordinates correspond to their office. Once this initial spatial marker has been set in the system the mobile device and any remote peers will know when the user is out of the office and can generate appropriate metadata reflecting the same.

In turn derived data includes data that uses other data to generate a result or retrieve information. As a general example derived data can use a meta tag which cross references the tag to another database to generate other data of interest to a user. Thus as an example device data can include but is not limited to generating a street address or directions in response to location data determining weather conditions based on device positional data generating user identification through their phone number and types of information that can be derived using data available via the mobile device. In general all of these types of data whether derived user generated or device created are types of metadata relative to particular mobile device event.

Metadata can describe the context source the value the structure or other properties of certain raw data. In one embodiment a peer to peer application on the mobile device or a module on a processing peer associates metadata with each element in a change set such that each element can be linked to and searched with respect to the metadata. This can be used to enable user tracking of activities based on the positional metadata and temporal metadata.

In the case of one embodiment of the invention useful metadata with respect to which the invention can create identify or otherwise process includes but is not limited to source information such from where from whom and when did a message originate. In the example provided above with respect to text message control and routing the project messages to John Smith metadata is used to conduct the search and to perform other features of that selective searching and routing.

In general the types of data that the systems and methods of the invention can process and otherwise use generally metadata are infinite. Examples of metadata that can be stored routed processed displayed and otherwise used by the embodiments disclosed and claimed herein include but are not limited to user name change set data event data local data contextual data spatial data calendar data seasonal data temporal data user identifiers IMEI numbers derived data GPS data location data directional data sensor data temperature data accelerometer data pressure data weather data job specific data insurance adjuster data law enforcement data organizational data picture data message data remote control instructional data routing data form captured data survey data user modified data pricing data and all other types of data that can exist on a mobile device or a remote peer.

As a related example the system and methods described herein can specify that although a text message was sent from a phone having phone number 1 415 555 5555 whether the sender was in San Francisco which is the 415 area code or whether the sender was traveling when in New York. This can be accomplished by using cell tower identification and triangulation as discussed below and various types of stored metadata. Thus the remote message archive that is assembled based on change sets and message transmissions to and from a mobile device typically includes various types of metadata.

The metadata serves as the basis for identifying where the text message originates from and the time that the text message sent. This metadata can be mined using the client application or the processing server or other peers in various embodiments. For example a user can search on all of the messages that contain the word experiment that were received from the user s company s research group in Phoenix Ariz. Coupled with these data mining features are various alerts that can be integrated in all of the systems and methods disclosed herein as appropriate for a given embodiment. Alerts can be by any mode such as e mail a text message a pop up initiated by the client application or a phone call. In addition alerts can be generated in response to various triggers or trigger events. For example a specific alert can be triggered by keywords location ID of the recipient voice stress or which Internet web page is accessed using the device or any other suitable mobile device performable event.

In one example the mobile device can be used in any field where messages or photos are beneficial or desired as part of a user s job function. For example the system and methods disclosed herein can be used by appraisers insurance claims adjusters inspectors law enforcement personnel suppliers bidders and various other professionals. In each instance a user of the device can generate local data by taking pictures dictating messages sending text messages and performing other device related activities. This local data can be combined with the querying and fillable form functionality described above to prepare reports relating to a particular project such as a crime scene review by a law enforcement officer or an inspection of fire by an insurance claim adjuster to generate an electronic project specific route. The routing and data collection features of the methods and systems described herein allow for this information to be sent to a supervisor or for a supervisor to have direct access to and track the mobile devices of their employees in the field.

Thus in one specific embodiment if an employee has a supervisor and the employee is taking pictures in the field the preferences in the device can be such that the pictures are automatically routed to the supervisor. Thus the fact that the data type is picture and that it was taken during working hours is sufficient to affect automatic routing in some embodiments. In another embodiment when a picture is taken such as of a wrecked car the mobile device queries e.g. via a pop up window the user as to the amount of the damage the name of the object or the name of the owner of the object and relays that information to the supervisor or a server at the employer s computer facility. The relevant information associated with a given employee s project can also be sent via text message for remote processing into a project report.

In addition certain information can also be applied to data generated or routed using the mobile device retrospectively at a later time at the archive or processing peer. For example a user can inform a processing peer or server such as a photo archive by stating via text message or fillable form that on a particular day and or between specified hours the user was on vacation at a particular vacation destination such as Spain. Thus the system can retroactively associate metadata with pictures that were created in this data range and identify them as vacation pictures taken in Spain or the relevant location of interest.

As shown in a peer to peer or client server based system illustrated suitable for use with a mobile device and a message archive or a message processor . Consistent with the other embodiments discussed above the mobile device is in communication with a plurality of peers Peer 1 . . . Peer n.

In addition shows that the message archive is in bidirectional communication with various modules. These modules include a text to speech module a metadata processing module a search module a location data module and a mobile device interface and translation module . Prior to discussing each module in detail it is informative to consider the message processor that uses them.

In one embodiment the message processor is peer connected to one or more networks. The message processor typically accesses messages that have been archived from the mobile device and performs various processes relative to the message using different modules to produce new valued added content derived from the archived messages.

In one embodiment the message processor can be implemented using a push or a pull based data delivery system. For example the message processor can receive a request from a mobile device a pull request to perform a certain function and connect with the relevant module to perform that function and route the value added content. Alternatively as an example a supervisor user can set an alert that requests that when an employee user of the system completes a business trip all of the employees phone logs and text message are pushed to the supervisor s mobile device.

Various modules suitable for processing and adding value to the message archive and processor based system are shown in . The control module responds to user commands and client application interface controls to access other modules and initiate different types of message processing. Thus in the example provided above wherein a text message is sent to the processing server to run a remote search the control module processes the text message starts the related processing and routes the result.

In turn the text to speech module enables archived messages to be converted to audio files that can then be routed and listened to when speech is preferable to reading. Thus if a user of the mobile device wants one or more archived text messages to be converted to speech and sent to a colleague the mobile device via the client application either directly or indirectly connects with the message processor or the text to speech module to have this task performed and the resultant files formatted and sent via the appropriate network or peer collection.

As discussed above the message archives described herein stored metadata as well as the actual messages. Numerous examples of the role of metadata in searching and location based information gathering have been provided. In one embodiment it is the metadata processing module that handles tasks of this nature in response to requests from the client application the control module or the processor .

Similarly various local and remote searching can be performed relative to the message contents and their associated metadata. For these operations the search module can be used in conjunction with other modules and system components as appropriate. The importance of GPS and cellular tower triangulation to generate location information and metadata about where events take place is discussed throughout and in more detail below with respect to . The location data module handles many of these location data specific tasks in conjunction with other modules and system components.

Finally as shown in a mobile device interface and translation module is shown. This module coordinates with other mobile devices and various stored pieces of metadata to properly communicate with other mobile devices that include client applications as well as to ensure that when data is sent to other devices it is presented in a suitable format for viewing on any such device.

For example if a text message has just been sent to a first user of the system and the first user wants to have this text message sent to a second user the interface and translation module handles this task. The module is configured to handle this message exchange such the text messages appears in the second user s Blackberry as though it was sent to him directly while still referencing metadata that tells the second user that the text was forwarded by the first user.

These specific modules are not intended to limit the functionality of the invention. For each possible application described herein and any others that can be implemented using a client application and a processing peer as discussed above corresponding modules can be implemented on various peers that connect to the processor .

As suggested throughout the document for various embodiments of the invention location based data can be used to filter metadata and identify the source of a given message mobile device event or to track the location of the user of the mobile device. The metadata processing module and the location data module can communicate together via the message processor to implement these features.

A high level diagram illustrating examples of these location specific features and specific modules relating to location event and tracking features are shown in respectively. These features can also be used to monitor a device user such as a child by a third party such as a parent on a real time or periodic basis according to the method of . In one embodiment the inclusion of tracking and monitoring features allows various mobile devices used with remote peers to possess an internal temporal and spatial memory.

Since certain mobile devices include global positioning system chipsets those types of devices can be tracked using a GPS satellite system . For devices that lack a GPS chipset or for circumstances when the level of resolution provided by GPS systems is unnecessary cell tower identification triangulation and related cell tower based location tracking techniques can be employed. As shown in three cellular towers and are shown that are suitable for triangulating the position of the mobile device using techniques known in the location based services industry.

In addition to providing a mechanism to generate location specific metadata for event tracking and to track a user s position location information is also used to enhance the operation of change set and data flows between the client application and the relevant peers.

Thus if a user wants to remotely process a photo using a processing server with respect to the system of location data can be used to select between differently located peers. Thus if someone is in Europe and wants to process a photo or create a portfolio of text message remotely the location data helps the system operate more efficiently by directing the change set data and the underlying to be processed data portions to a European peer or server rather than one in the United States.

Returning to at each location in the examples shown in the figure different events occur with respect to different points in time that occur with respect to the mobile device. For example at location L at time T the mobile device experiences a first event E. The first event Eshown is an outgoing event. The second event E occurring at time T shown is an incoming event. Thus in one embodiment the first event Emay be the sending of a text message from the mobile device to a user contact. Similarly the second event Emay be the receiving of a responsive text message from a colleague in response to E. In general an event can be incoming or outgoing. Certain events may be classified as bi directional such a voice phone call. However the underlying metadata will indicated who initiated the call.

Alternatively some events such as taking a picture or forwarding a text message may be classified only based on the metadata that explains all of the parties and events involved in the transaction along with where and when it happened. Further an event can include but is not limited to sending or receiving a message initiating or answering a call or otherwise performing any action available using the operating system of a given mobile device.

In addition as shown in at new location L starting at time T and three events E E E are performed or generated using the mobile device . Although the first event Emay commence at time T the other events may happen later with their own time stamped metadata or all three events may happen simultaneously. Further still at the third location L and the fourth location L at times Tand T respectively separate events Eand Eoccur. The system discussed in more detail with respect to allows all of the events to be tracked and reported.

In each case for each location time and event whether by triangulating between the cellular towers or via the GPS satellite generated positional information metadata corresponding to the user location and each mobile device specific event is generated and associated with the underlying files and logs that are ultimately sent to a processing server or application such as that shown in .

Specifically shows a peer to peer or client server based system suitable for use with a mobile device and a location data processing server . In addition the system includes various modules as shown that can be implemented as individual peers or as software resident within the server . In one embodiment the system includes but is not limited to including a user tracking module an event tracking module a reporting module a location data metadata module and a control module . The location data processing server can be any of the peers or servers discussed above that are suitable for storing and exchanging data with a client application resident on the mobile device .

As was the case with the embodiment of the control module responds to user commands and client application interface controls to access other modules and initiate different types of location based services including user and event tracking. In one embodiment the control module is the main interface point of the server or peer for the client application resident on the mobile device .

In turn the location data metadata module receives the relevant GPS information or other location related metadata or assists in obtaining the position of the mobile device given information about the position of the cellular towers in the surrounding area. In one embodiment the mobile device captures various signals from surrounding cell towers and uploads the cell tower ID for each tower to which it connects to the location data module . Since the positions of the cell towers are known the module can collect any ancillary information that it needs and directly or indirectly calculate the location of the mobile device . When the local messages or other data is sent from the mobile device to the server the associated metadata includes positional information that was determined on the phone such as GPS data or by using the location data module and sending location information back to the device .

In one embodiment since the process of triangulation can be time and processor demanding in one embodiment multiple peers are used to assist in the process to make the location available to the end user in a reasonable time period. Thus in one embodiment the cell tower information that is collected using the mobile device is routed to a plurality of peers that are programmed to obtain longitude and latitude from their cell towers. This plurality of peers performs a triangulation and sends it back to the device and or the server . This process can be performed using any of the systems herein and is not limited to message processing embodiments.

In addition to the general location data module the location data processing server can also connect to or have installed within it a user tracking module and event tracking module . The user tracking module uses the location information made available to track the mobile device and thus its user. The user tracking module may interact with the reporting module to facilitate the generation of alerts real time tracking and periodic user report generation. Similarly the event tracking module performs similar tracking functions with events such as phone calls message sending message receiving and other functions performed using the mobile device such that location data can be associated with all events as appropriate for a given tracking application.

With respect to all of the event times and locations shown can be broadcast in real time to a tracking party such as a parent of the mobile device user. In one embodiment the tracking party provides the mobile device with an undetectable version of the client application that sends alerts and other information to the tracking party. Alternatively all of the events movements and the named parties can be compiled into one report that highlights information of greater interest such as the highlighting of drug references other illegal activities or certain key textual words or auditory sounds. Any real time or periodic reporting is handled by the reporting module or other peers.

In addition specific details regarding operating in real time mode or in periodic mode are discussed in more detail below. The reporting module also handles alerts such as sending a message to an end user that a particular key word or that voice distress was detected on a phone call. Thus in one embodiment a voice stress analyzer module or routine and a voice recognizer operates to filter stress signals from phone conversions conducted over the mobile device and trigger alerts as appropriate based on stress or various key words.

In general the tracking system and can be implemented to support numerous commercial and personal tracking objectives. As smart phones and other mobile devices become the principal mode of communication among adults it is also the case that for many young adults and children mobile devices are an integral part of their lives. Another important application of the methods principles hardware software and systems described herein is to help implement various child protection features such as tracking and monitoring. An exemplary system suitable for implementing certain child protection features and child tracking features was discussed above with respect to a specific implementation of a related method is shown in . In addition also show specific message archiving metadata specific and child tracking methods.

Specifically certain child protection features includes location monitoring alert generation in response to key words or voice stress determining with whom the child communicates and by what mode text email calls etc. and reporting the same to the mobile devices or other peer devices under the control of parents or guardians.

As shown in the first step in the process is for the user of interest that is the mobile device user that is being tracked or monitored by a third party to activate or initialize their mobile device step . In one embodiment the mobile device has been configured to include a version of the client application that runs transparently in the background such that the user of the device is not aware they are being monitored. For certain business purposes or where deterrence from certain activities is encouraged such as excessive text messaging the monitoring program can be made visible to the user of the mobile device.

The following steps are typically performed by a remote peer device or by the client application on a mobile device of interest for tracking purposes. The next step is to determine if a remote tracker is active application step . The tracking party such as a parent that is interested in the movements and activities of the mobile device user such as a child can toggle between whether or not remote tracking is engaged. If remote tracking is not active the mobile device is in normal operation mode step . In contrast if the tracking party wants real time or periodic reports about the activities of the mobile device the tracker is determined to be active and the next step is a selection step.

At this point in the process the client application or a remote peer such as a parent controlled device makes a determination as to whether real time monitoring tracking or periodic monitoring tracking is active step . If real time monitoring is active the client application establishes a communication channel between mobile device and tracking party step . This follows because the tracking party needs to receive alerts status reports or a mirror window into the events occurring on the mobile device of the tracked party.

Once the channel has been established the steps for periodic tracking and real time tracking are the same except with respect to the frequency of the report generation event reporting and location reporting. With respect to the real time tracking this type of monitoring allows tracking with respect to every call in and out every text message in and out effectively in one embodiment the tracking part can see everything the tracked party is doing while knowing where they are doing it.

The next step in the process for both real time and periodic embodiments is to initiate location and event tracking step . Next as change sets vary over time and new activities or location data are generated by the client application the application captures location data and event data step . In turn the client application or remote peer or processing server processes the location data and event data step and report events and data to tracking party step as a periodic report or as real time information and alerts.

Using the systems and the other modules methods and systems discussed herein mobile device based monitoring can be achieved that allows a third party such as a parent in a preferred embodiment to see everything the mobile device user of interest typically the relevant parent s child is doing on their cell phone.

In addition with the searching and data mining functionality of the systems described herein when certain preselected words come up in a voicemail or a text message in one real time embodiment an alert in the form of a text message can be instantly sent to a parent s cell phone. This is typically achieved by a reporting module such as reporting module in .

In one embodiment given the change set and data stream architecture of data exchange between a processing service and the memory resident client application it is also possible to record conversations and send them to the third party that is monitoring the activities of the mobile device user.

In one embodiment since the client application can already access voicemails and other media files that include audio content the processing application can be configured to convert a user s voicemail or other audio files such as dictated memos to text and archive the resultant text at the application server.

In one embodiment the mobile device includes a location based service that includes GPS functionality. In this embodiment the client application can access a call log a GPS tag and a mapping functionality and use these in conjunction with the processing application to generate different products such as automatically GPS tagged picture archives.

In another embodiment the client application and related services can be used to monitor mobile device activity. Further if the mobile device includes location based services such as services that use GPS data mobile device position can also be monitored. Thus it is possible to correlate where a user was located when the client application or related service made or received a call or performed another action such as archiving data using the client application.

As discussed above with respect to various specific embodiments the invention provides in part systems and methods that simplify and automate mobile device based activities. In some embodiments actions and processing steps occur without a device user needing to click through a menu or even touch the device. Thus the invention offers zero touch or zero click functionality in various embodiments.

The device software methods and systems described herein can incorporate various network based technologies. In various embodiments suitable network based technologies for transmitting and receiving local data and processed versions in thereof include but are not limited to cellular infrared IR satellite Bluetooth wide area network WAN and WLAN Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi such as 802.x standardized systems and are to be used generically when referring of any type of 802.11 network whether IEEE 802.11b 802.11a 802.16 802.20 dual band GPRS CDMA EDGE WCDMA CDMA2000 TD SCDMA network UWB W USB ZigBee NFC and WiMax.

Embodiments may operate over current mobile communication networks based on either Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or Global Systems Mobile GSM standards or other systems. The device network and the internet can be accessed using various protocols and auxiliary networks including the suitable network based technologies discussed above.

In addition to the client application resident on the mobile device an overall service including certain hardware components such as servers that act as peers or processing elements can also be established to facilitate to the transfer and processing of local data. Servers suitable for performing the processing routing transmission and archiving of local data can use a windows based operating system a Mac based a Linux based operating system or any other suitable open source or proprierarty operating system.

The servers may have traditional hardware configurations each having about two megabytes of RAM disk space ranging from 120 up to 360 gigabytes of storage. The servers may be wireless or LAN based. Blade servers can be used in one embodiment.

Computers and computer systems described herein may include operatively associated computer readable media such as memory for storing software applications used in obtaining processing storing and or communicating data. It can be appreciated that such memory can be internal external remote or local with respect to its operatively associated computer or computer system.

Memory may also include any means for storing software or other instructions including for example and without limitation a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk DVD digital versatile disc CD compact disc memory stick ROM read only memory RAM random access memory DRAM dynamic random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM extended erasable PROM and or other like computer readable media.

In general computer readable memory media applied in association with embodiments of the invention described herein may include any memory medium capable of storing instructions executed by a programmable apparatus. Where applicable method steps described herein may be embodied or executed as instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or memory media. These instructions may be software embodied in various programming languages such as C C Java and or a variety of other kinds of software programming languages that may be applied to create instructions in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these and other elements may be desirable. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein. It should be appreciated that the figures are presented for illustrative purposes and not as construction drawings. Omitted details and modifications or alternative embodiments are within the purview of persons of ordinary skill in the art.

It can be appreciated that in certain aspects of the invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to provide an element or structure or to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice certain embodiments of the invention such substitution is considered within the scope of the invention.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. There may be variations to these diagrams or the operations described herein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance in certain cases method steps or operations may be performed or executed in differing order or operations may be added deleted or modified.

Furthermore whereas particular embodiments of the invention have been described herein for the purpose of illustrating the invention and not for the purpose of limiting the same it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous variations of the details materials and arrangement of elements steps structures and or parts may be made within the principle and scope of the invention without departing from the invention as described in the claims.

