---

title: Mobile core client architecture
abstract: Multiple types of applications, electronic forms, electronic forms data instances, network services and, network services are automatically managed by methods and systems. The methods and systems allow organizations with a mobile workforce that relies on established business processes to execute timely and secure exchange of information while providing easy to use, fast, accurate and flexible information capture capability in the field. These organizations and/or third-party providers may optimize the design of mobile applications to better match existing corporate processes and forms in order to reflect existing business needs, preferred graphical user interfaces, processes and experiences on the mobile devices. Organizations and/or third-party providers may also build mobile applications that allow information to be automatically created and updated both online and offline and synchronized or routed to another mobile device, an application server, web service, software-as-a-service (SaaS), database or website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113282&OS=09113282&RS=09113282
owner: TrueContext Corporation
number: 09113282
owner_city: Kanata, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20080111
---
This application is a U.S. national stage filing of International Application No. PCT IB2008 000055 filed Jan. 11 2008 and this application claims priority to the International Application No. PCT IB2008 000055 filed Jan. 11 2008 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 884 785 filed Jan. 12 2007 to the same inventors and hereby incorporates by reference those applications in their entirety.

The present invention is directed to mobile devices and applications therefor. More particularly the invention is directed to methods and systems for managing multiple types of applications in such mobile devices.

The increasing popularity of handheld mobile devices such as mobile phones personal digital assistants PDA and the like coupled with advances in wireless networking technologies is enabling new classes of mobile applications. For example field force industries that heretofore captured information on paper based forms may now record the information manually and or automatically in electronic forms using applications on their mobile devices. It is also possible for organizations to define and deploy their own mobile device applications and forms as well as any business processes associated therewith. An example of a method and system for defining and deploying mobile device forms applications business processes and the like is described in U.S. Published Patent Application No. US2006161646 entitled POLICY DRIVEN MOBILE FORMS APPLICATIONS filed Jan. 18 2006 assigned to TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada. The forms applications business processes and so forth may then be provided to the mobile device users through a managed service provider MSP hosted environment.

In existing mobile devices however management of the various mobile applications electronic forms and data therein and corresponding business processes is largely a manual process. Typically mobile users must personally monitor the status of any instance of electronic forms data e.g. completed ready to be sent etc. track the different applications being used perform any maintenance on such applications and the like. Uploading the instances of electronic forms data and the information therein for example to a centralized database or sharing the electronic form data with other mobile devices via the World Wide Web the web also must be done manually. Similarly there is currently no way to automatically track updates to mobile applications electronic forms and business processes and to synchronize them with a back end server. To the extent any of the above tasks may be automated each software developer or software provider presently provides its own automation component that is applicable only to that software provider s applications electronic forms and business processes. The result is an uncoordinated set of applications electronic forms and business processes on the mobile device that is inconvenient and burdensome to manage and contributes to inefficient use of time and mobile device computing resources.

Thus despite recent advances there is a need in mobile devices for a unified way to automatically manage multiple applications multiple types of electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services from different software providers. More particularly there is a need in mobile devices to be able to allow mobile applications to automatically detect monitor and process electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services from different software providers according to each provider s business processes and the like.

The present invention is directed to methods and systems for managing multiple types of applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services from different software providers. The methods and systems of the invention allow organizations with a mobile workforce that relies on established business processes to automatically execute timely and secure exchange of information while providing easy to use fast accurate and flexible information capture capability in the field. As a result these organizations and or third party providers may more easily optimize the design of mobile applications to better match existing corporate processes and forms in order to reflect existing business needs preferred graphical user interfaces GUI processes and experiences on the mobile devices. Organizations and or third party providers may also build mobile applications that allow information to be automatically created and updated online and offline as well as synchronized or routed to another mobile device an application server web service Software as a Service SaaS database or website.

In general in one aspect the invention is directed to a method for managing mobile applications electronic forms data instances business processes and network services from multiple software providers in a mobile device. The method comprises executing a plurality of mobile applications on the mobile device each mobile application operable with a different electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service. The method also comprises storing context information for each mobile application electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service on the mobile device the context information being stored by a unified mobile resource contextualization engine. The method further comprises allowing the mobile applications to access the context information wherein each mobile application is configured to automatically process a respective electronic form and electronic forms data instance according to a respective business process and network service using the context information.

In general in another aspect the invention is directed to a system for managing mobile applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and network services from multiple software providers in a mobile device. The system comprises at least one subsystem configured to execute a plurality of mobile applications on the mobile device each mobile application operable with a different electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service. The system also comprises at least one subsystem configured to store context information for each mobile application electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service on the mobile device the at least one subsystem including a unified mobile resource contextualization engine configured to store the context information. The system further comprises at least one subsystem configured to allow the mobile applications to access the context information wherein each mobile application is configured to automatically process a respective electronic form and electronic forms data instance according to a respective business process and network service using the context information.

In general in yet another aspect the invention is directed to a computer readable storage medium encoded with computer readable instructions for managing mobile applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and network services from multiple software providers in a mobile device. The computer readable instructions comprise instructions for causing the mobile device to execute a plurality of mobile applications on the mobile device each mobile application operable with a different electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service. The computer readable instructions also comprise instructions for causing the mobile device to store context information for each mobile application electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service on the mobile device using a unified mobile resource contextualization engine. The computer readable instructions further comprise instructions for causing the mobile device to allow the mobile applications to access the context information wherein each mobile application is configured to automatically process a respective electronic form and electronic forms data instance according to a respective business process and network service using the context information.

In general in still another aspect the invention is directed to method for managing mobile applications in a mobile device the method comprising executing a plurality of mobile applications on the mobile device each mobile application operable with a different electronic form. The method also comprises storing context information for each mobile application and electronic form on the mobile device the context information being stored by a unified mobile resource contextualization engine. The method further comprises allowing the mobile applications to access the context information wherein each mobile application is configured to automatically process a respective electronic form using the context information.

In general in yet another aspect the invention is directed to a method for managing mobile applications electronic forms data instances business processes and network services from multiple software providers in a mobile device. The method comprises storing context information for one or more of a mobile application an electronic form an electronic forms data instance a business process and a network service or any combination thereof on the mobile device the context information being stored by a unified mobile resource contextualization engine. The method also comprises executing the mobile applications on the mobile device each mobile application operable with a different electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service. The method further comprises allowing the mobile applications to access the context information wherein each mobile application is configured to automatically process one or more of a respective electronic form and electronic forms data instance according to a respective business process and network service using the context information.

In general in still another aspect the invention is directed to a method for managing mobile applications electronic forms data instances business processes and network services from multiple software providers in a mobile device. The method comprises storing context information for one or more of a mobile application an electronic form an electronic forms data instance a business process or a network service or any combination thereof on the mobile device the context information being stored by a unified mobile resource contextualization engine. The method also comprises executing the mobile applications on the mobile device each mobile application operable with a different electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and network service. The method further comprises allowing the mobile applications to access the context information wherein each mobile application is configured to automatically process one or more of a respective electronic form and electronic forms data instance according to a respective business process and network service using the context information.

In general in yet another aspect the invention is directed to a method for managing mobile applications electronic forms data instances business processes and network services from multiple software providers in a mobile device. The method comprises storing context information on the mobile device the context information being stored by a unified mobile resource contextualization engine and executing a mobile application on the mobile device. The method further comprises allowing the mobile application to access the context information wherein the mobile application is configured to automatically process one or more of a respective electronic form and electronic forms data instance according to a respective business process and network service using the context information.

In the following detailed description of preferred embodiments and other embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings. Those of ordinary skill in the art will readily see that other embodiments and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

As alluded to previously mobile device applications are increasingly supporting multiple means of manually and automatically capturing or updating information through different interfaces and methods. Managing this information and providing a flexible secure framework for working with online and offline content in a mobile device is important to improving the productivity and effectiveness of mobile field personnel and mobile application solutions. Embodiments of the invention satisfy the above needs by providing field personnel or their mobile devices with a way to securely synchronize and connect with corresponding business systems such as application servers web services SaaS databases and websites both online and offline. Thus captured information may be shared with other mobile devices exposed over the web orchestrated and or organized for integration to legacy back end systems databases applications and other hosted services and applications. This includes tracking the state of the business processes in which the information is being shared.

In some embodiments the invention accomplishes the above by allowing mobile devices to be aware of and use context information for various mobile applications electronic forms and business processes running thereon. As used herein the term context information refers to information that characterizes the capabilities and requirements of each application electronic form data instance and business process. Such context information may include for example which electronic forms are to be used with which software applications and or which network services and whether the applications and services reside in the mobile device and or on an application server web service SaaS database and website both online and offline. Context information may also include the status of each electronic forms instance and its business process for example whether and when the form is to be sent back to the application server web service database and so forth. Context information may additionally include supporting files for applications electronic forms and business processes e.g. company logos and other image files help files business policies and rules configuration files etc. . Furthermore configurations of an application electronic form or business process that have been applied by a user to make the forms solution more suitable to the user s requirements may also be included in context information. Other examples of context information may include times dates schedules and or conditions for synchronizing each electronic form data instance with the application server web service database and so forth where applicable. In some embodiments the context information may also include a listing of any errors that may have occurred during execution of the mobile applications.

Referring now to a system for automatically managing applications electronic forms and business processes from multiple software providers according to embodiments of the invention is shown. The term business process is used herein to refer to a sequence of events or transitions from one business state to another where the state is characterized by the information captured context information and any business process policies and or rules that govern sharing of data between users or with network services. The term network service refers to a service that can provide information capture or that can be a source of information.

As can be seen in the system comprises at least one mobile device capable of executing a plurality of mobile applications thereon i.e. start stop and or suspend the applications using any process available on the mobile device . In general such mobile applications may include any application capable of using one or more forms to automatically and or manually capture information via the mobile device . Examples of such applications may include LeadGenesys from LeadGenesys Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Outlook from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. and other similar applications. A single instance of data collected by these mobile applications in an electronic form is generally referred to as an electronic forms data instance or simply data instance. Such an electronic forms data instance is generally defined as any electronic data produced by a process that may be shared with other applications users and enterprise applications. Examples of electronic forms data instances that may be captured by applications running on a mobile device or enterprise system may include data files e.g. XML document image capture binary content etc. streaming binary data e.g. audio video etc. and the like.

In the illustrative embodiment of the applications are shown to include by way of example a health inspection application an inventory control application and a lead generation application . These applications typically but not necessarily have one or more electronic forms e.g. a checklist manifest contact sheet etc. on which information may be captured and stored as an electronic forms data instance. The state e.g. completed ready to be sent etc. of the electronic forms data instances usually dictate when they are shared or sent to other users or to back end services available through the managed service provider.

A managed service provider provides the mobile device with the various electronic forms and supporting services and files and in some instances the mobile applications corresponding to the electronic forms. The managed service provider typically provides the electronic forms and or mobile applications to the mobile device over a network e.g. the Internet via a suitable wireless connection e.g. a cellular link . Examples of services that may be provided by the managed service provider include mXForms mXDocs and or mExperience available from TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada and other similar services.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the managed service provider may also provide the mobile device with context information for the electronic forms. Such context information may then be used by the mobile applications and related network services to automatically detect monitor and process the electronic forms. This arrangement offers a unified way in the mobile device to manage multiple types of electronic forms from different organizations and or third party providers without having to deploy a separate automation component for each provider on the mobile device . Furthermore the organizations and or third party providers may be confident that any business processes they have defined will be complied with based on the application of the context information.

In general the controller is responsible for the overall operation of the mobile device including execution of various software programs thereon such as the mobile device operating system OS and mobile applications. The display unit is generally responsible for rendering all images and text on the mobile device including any electronic forms used on the mobile device . The input output unit is responsible for receiving and translating information received by the mobile device into electrical signals that can be stored in or otherwise associated with the electronic forms. The memory unit which may include any temporary and or long term computer readable storage medium provides storage for software programs and information or the computer readable equivalent thereof that may be used by the mobile device . The transceiver unit is responsible for sending and receiving signals to from the mobile device from to the network see . To this end the transceiver unit performs all tasks known to those having ordinary skill in the art for communicating with the network such as adjusting the strength of transmitted signals frequency up down conversion modulation demodulation encoding decoding and other related tasks where applicable.

As for the wireless connection represented in any suitable wireless network may be used. For example the wireless connection may be a cellular network such as GSM CDMA EDGE GPRS UMTS and the like. The wireless connection may also include a direct wireless network such as WiFi 802.11a b g Bluetooth wireless LAN and so forth. In the latter case two or more mobile devices may be connected directly to each other over the wireless connection .

In accordance with embodiments of the invention a unified mobile resource contextualization engine may be stored in the memory for automatically managing mobile applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services from multiple software providers on the mobile device . The mobile resource contextualization engine allows the mobile device to be aware of and use context information for each application electronic form electronic forms data instance business process and or network service. Specifically the mobile resource contextualization engine allows mobile applications to automatically detect monitor and process each electronic form using the context information for that electronic form and enables data sharing and network services as dictated by the business processes. Such an arrangement helps ensure that the mobile applications running on the mobile device and the various electronic forms therefor comply with established business processes and the like.

In the embodiment of the functional components of the mobile resource contextualization engine include a device context engine a network context engine a mobile context registry an extensible application programming interface API and extensible context information and a subscription and call notification interface . A secure framework allows network operators and or enterprise administrators to control access to any context information exposed to mobile applications running on the mobile device . As mentioned above each functional component may operate in conjunction with one or more other functional components to allow the mobile device and the applications running thereon to utilize context information for the electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services. For example the network context engine and or the device context engine may communicate with the mobile context registry and the extensible context information . A mobile device operating system including drivers therefor as well as a kernel assembler and firmware are shown generally at .

In general the device context engine is responsible for accessing or discovering and communicating i.e. exchanging information with all information capture resources available on the mobile device . Such information capture resources may include but are not limited to mobile device integrated and non integrated information capture and input peripherals e.g. camera GPS scanner magnetic card reader RFID readers etc. . The device context engine thereafter makes these information capture resources available as needed to the various mobile applications running on the mobile device .

The network context engine is responsible for accessing or discovering and communicating with network services that are available to the mobile device over the network . Such network services may comprise subscription based services as well as usage base services and may include for example SIP SMTP SMS location mapping call conferencing and the like depending on the information capture resources available on the mobile device . These network services preferably have a mobile service contextualization component that generates and provides context information to the mobile device for the various mobile applications and network services . Preferably each network service also has a security component for controlling access to the network services . Such access control may be implemented for example via a password protection scheme an encryption scheme biometric input and the like. A network awareness component of the network services facilitates discovery of the network services by the mobile device .

The mobile context registry maintains a registry or listing of all electronic forms electronic forms data instances the mobile applications associated with each electronic form and data instance business processes and or the network services to be used with each mobile application electronic form and data instance. Such a mobile context registry may reside locally on the mobile device or it may be available remotely over the network e.g. from the manage service provider . As new information capture resources electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services become available to the mobile device they may also be registered or listed on the mobile context registry .

The extensible API allows mobile applications and network services to access use modify and or add to the extensible context information on the mobile device . This extensible context information is a historical store of all context information and events linked to the registry of applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances and network services. The extensible API may also allow the mobile applications and network services to access the integrated and non integrated resources of the mobile device including any information capture resources that may be available on the mobile device .

Finally the subscription and call notification interface allows the mobile applications running on the mobile device to receive updates for the mobile applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services and to subscribe to changes in context information for such mobile applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services .

Referring now to another view of the mobile resource contextualization engine is shown where the various functions of the engine described above are illustrated in more detail. From this view it can be seen that the mobile resource contextualization engine comprises a plurality of individual modules that together enable the context information awareness and usage capability of the mobile device . As before although multiple individual modules are shown in those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that two or more of these modules may be combined into a single module and that a single module may be divided into several constituent modules without departing from the scope of the invention. Moreover one or more modules may be added to or removed from the mobile resource contextualization engine as needed without departing from the scope of the invention.

In the embodiment of the mobile resource contextualization engine comprises a security framework that includes an authentication module for limiting access to the mobile device to authorized users only and a cryptography module for ensuring secure persistent storage of any information captured on the mobile device and also interfacing with standard security libraries available on the operating system in some cases. An illustrative example of such a security framework is mXSecure available from TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada. An authorization module is also included in the security framework for managing authorization of collected information to be shared with other mobile applications as well as a license management component for managing mobile application access and application information capture access. An open or extensible programming interface provides access to the various services of the mobile resource contextualization engine for any authorized mobile applications.

Also present is a network connectivity module that comprises a gateway communication module for managing communication for the mobile device over any suitable network e.g. TCP dual IPv4 v6 UDP HTTP WAP etc. . The network connectivity module further comprises a notification module and a server messaging module that together serve to notify any mobile application running on the mobile device whenever new captured information is available for a given mobile application. A data compression module provides information compression and decompression services for the mobile applications including compressing captured information prior to transmitting the information to its destination e.g. database web service SaaS etc. . Finally a network awareness module discovers which network services see are available and determines when and which network services may be used to transmit the captured information to its destination.

Other modules that may be included in the mobile resource contextualization engine comprise a mobile forms management module and a mobile device management module . The mobile forms management module may in turn comprise an application manager AppManager for managing the various electronic forms used by the mobile device a forms record manager DI Manager that tracks the information captured as electronic forms data instances and a validation component DI Validation that validates the structure and format of the captured information according to business process rules and policies. One illustrative example of such a mobile forms management module is mXForms developed by TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada. The mobile device management module may comprise a configuration module that manages configuration settings for the mobile device individual applications electronic forms data instances and or business processes that can be configured by the user of the mobile device or be pre configured by the managed service provider see or software provider. A diagnostic module may also be included that displays and analyzes information related to the running of the mobile device mobile applications electronic forms data instances and or business processes on the mobile device . Such analysis may be useful for debugging or supporting the mobile device when problems arise. Also present are a device module that tracks the characteristics and capabilities of the mobile device a scheduling module that schedules transmission of the information captured in the electronic forms as needed in order to comply with established business processes a discovery module that functions to discover available network services and a context module that stores and manages context information for the various applications electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services . An illustrative example of the mobile device management module is mXManage available from TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada.

A logging business activity monitoring BAM and auditing module provides a framework for capturing a historical log of all activities and events on the mobile device that can be used to capture information used by the diagnostic module as well as to provide an audit trail captured by the logging business activity monitoring BAM and auditing module and log business process events and state changes in order to compile statistics about business activity on the mobile device . A bootstrap engine may be used to provision e.g. Over the Air cradle etc. and remotely upgrade any component of the mobile resource contextualization engine either in real time or according to a predetermined schedule. A content broker may be used as persistent storage for J2ME MIDP based devices that allows large content size and several different record sizes in order to scale multiple record management system RMS .

Thus far embodiments of the invention have been described in terms of specific functional components and modules. Following now is a description of a method or guide for providing context information awareness and usage in a mobile device. As with the functional components and modules it should be noted that while the method comprises a series of individual steps two or more steps may be combined into a single step and any step may be divided into several sub steps without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition one or more steps may be added to or removed from the method as needed without departing from the scope of the invention. Moreover although the steps of the method are shown in a particular order those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that the invention is not to be limited thereto and that alternative sequences for the steps may certainly be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring to a method for providing context information awareness and usage in a mobile device is shown. The method begins at step where information capture resources available on the mobile device are discovered and communicated with. Such information capture resources may include but are not limited to mobile device integrated and non integrated information capture and input peripherals e.g. camera GPS scanner magnetic card reader RFID readers etc. . At step network services that are available to the mobile device are also discovered and communicated with. Such network services may comprise subscription based services as well as usage base services and may include for example SIP SMTP SMS location mapping call conferencing and the like depending on the information capture resources available on the mobile device. These network services may then be registered in the mobile device at step along with electronic forms mobile applications associated therewith electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services. New applications services processes and or forms may also be registered in the mobile device as they become available.

If not done so already at step a user has the option of subscribing to one or more of the available network services. Context information for the mobile applications electronic forms data instances business processes and or network services may then be received from the network services and stored in the mobile device at step . Thereafter the mobile device allows the mobile applications to use the context information at step to automatically detect monitor and process the electronic forms and electronic forms data instances according to the business processes defined by the software provider using one of the network services. At step updates to the applications electronic forms electronic forms data instances business processes network services and or context information are received by the mobile device from the network services. In some embodiments access to the context information may be limited to authorize mobile applications only at optional step .

This application expressly incorporates by reference in their entirety the following U.S. patent applications Method and System for Customizing a Mobile Application Using a Web Based Interface by Mitch A. Brisebois Brant Drummond Arjun Mehta Marc Ch n and Mark Flannigan assigned 60 880 170 Methods and System for Orchestrating Services and Data Sharing on Mobile Devices by Marc Ch n Liam Peyton Kevin McGuire and Brant Drummond assigned 60 880 328 and Real Time Reports and Dashboards from Aggregated Mobile Data by Mitch A. Brisebois Arjun Mehta Kevin McGuire and Cyril Soga assigned 60 880 176 each of which is being filed concurrently herewith on Jan. 12 2007 and each of which is assigned to or under obligation of assignment to TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada.

This application also expressly incorporates herein by reference in their entirety the following published U.S. patent applications U.S. Published Patent Application No. US2006161646 entitled Policy Driven Mobile Forms Applications filed Jan. 18 2006 U.S. Published Patent Application No. US20060080397 entitled Content Management Across Shared Mobile File Systems filed Apr. 13 2006 and U.S. Published Patent Application No. US20060089938 entitled Distributed Scalable Policy Based Content Management filed Oct. 8 2004 all of which are assigned to TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada.

This application further expressly incorporates herein by reference in its entirety International Publication No. WO2004013782A1 entitled Contextual Computing System published Feb. 12 2004 and assigned to TrueContext Corp. of Ottawa Canada.

While the presently disclosed concepts have been described with reference to one or more particular embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that many changes may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the presently disclosed concepts. Any combination and or sub combination of the examples embodiments aspects claims methods acts processes claim elements or components disclosed herein however termed are expressly contemplated as falling within the present concepts. For example although various aspects of the present concepts are set forth in the appended claims wherein the dependent claims relate back to selected preceding claims including the independent claim it is to be understood that each of the dependent claims may properly depend from any of the preceding claims to the extent not logically excluded in accord with aspects of the present concepts. Thus for example the present concepts expressly include every possible combination of dependent claims with their respective independent claim regardless of stated dependency. Further the presently disclosed concepts are considered to include without limitation any combination and or sub combination of the disclosed examples embodiments aspects claims methods acts processes claim elements or components disclosed herein with the examples embodiments aspects claims methods acts processes claim elements or components disclosed in the references and applications incorporated by reference herein.

