---

title: Performing a check transaction using add-in modules
abstract: A point-of-sale (POS) module and associated methods are described for performing a transaction involving a check. The POS module interacts with one or more add-in modules. Each add-in module is associated with a particular method for processing a payment using a check. Accordingly, the POS module can accommodate multiple different workflows by plugging in appropriate add-in modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412632&OS=08412632&RS=08412632
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08412632
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
Many businesses commonly allow customers to submit checks as a form of payment. In a traditional scenario a business may ask a customer who offers a check to present one or more forms of identification. Based on this information the business may decide to accept or decline the check as payment. Some time later the business provides a collection of accepted checks to a bank for processing and settlement.

The traditional mode of check payment has drawbacks. First the business has no assurance that the customer s check is a valid instrument that will be honored by the bank. Second it may be inconvenient and inefficient for the business to physically transport the checks to the bank for processing.

In view of these shortcomings some businesses use more advanced methods of processing checks. One such method is referred to herein as a verification method. In the verification method at the time of transaction the business may make an electronic inquiry to a service provider. The inquiry asks the service provider to verify whether the customer s account is valid and in good standing. The service provider may also optionally verify that the customer has sufficient funds to make the payment. As in the traditional method the verification method requires the business to retain checks for later physical settlement at the bank. Further despite the safeguards provided by advance verification there remains a chance that the bank may not honor a customer s check.

Another proposed method for processing checks is referred to herein as an electronic transaction method. In the electronic transaction method the business converts the customer s check to an electronic transaction. Using this method a service provider can transfer appropriate funds from the customer s account to the business s account. To authorize such a transaction the business may ask the customer to sign a printed receipt. The business also may void the customer s paper check to prevent it from being used again. The electronic transaction method dispenses with the need for the business to physically submit checks for settlement at the bank.

Currently a service provider may provide specialized single use functionality to process a check in accordance with a particular kind of check processing method. A business which desires to use such a check processing method may purchase or otherwise acquire the specialized functionality. This approach may have drawbacks. For instance it may be a time consuming disruptive and potentially expensive task for the business to replace existing payment functionality with new payment functionality.

In one illustrative implementation a point of sale POS module is provided for performing a transaction involving a check. The POS module interacts with at least one add in module. Each add in module performs specialized processing associated with a particular method of payment using a check. Accordingly when a particular method of check payment is selected at the time of a transaction the POS module performs the transaction in cooperation with an add in module associated with the selected method of payment. For example the POS module may submit an authorization request to an appropriate add in module the add in module may perform specialized authorization processing and return an authorization response to the POS module indicating whether the transaction is approved.

By virtue of the above summarized features the POS module may accommodate the use of different transaction workflows associated with different payment methods. A business can implement a new check payment method by plugging in a new add in module associated with the new method. This aspect of the POS module allows a business to efficiently and flexibly incorporate new payment tools. Further this approach readily accommodates a business which may wish to offer multiple forms of payment to its customers.

In one illustrative case the POS module can accommodate at least three methods of payment using a check. A verification method involves electronically verifying that the check may be used as payment. An electronic transaction method involves converting the check into an electronic transaction. A traditional method involves neither verifying the check nor converting the check into electronic form.

According to another illustrative feature the POS module includes a POS to add in interface module which couples the POS module to each add in module. The POS to add in interface module handles the interaction between the POS module and each add in module using an appropriate protocol. A service provider can design a new add in module to interact with the POS module by ensuring that the add in module conforms to the appropriate protocol.

According to another illustrative feature the POS module may include a configuration module for allowing a user to configure the POS module to operate using one or more transaction workflows. One or more transaction workflows may involve the use of one or more respective add in modules. The configuration operation may involve configuring such add in modules. In the course of the configuration operation an add in module itself may invoke its own configuration procedure which may involve presenting one or more user interface pages.

According to another illustrative feature the POS module may include a settlement module. The settlement module handles settlement of one or more transactions performed by the POS module. The settlement operation may entail interaction with one or more appropriate add in modules. The add in modules perform specialized settlement operations appropriate to respective methods of payment.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form these concepts are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The same numbers are used throughout the disclosure and figures to reference like components and features. Series numbers refer to features originally found in series numbers refer to features originally found in series numbers refer to features originally found in and so on.

This disclosure describes an approach for performing a transaction involving a check. In this approach a point of sale POS module interacts with one or more add in modules via an interface protocol. The add in modules are associated with different respective methods for check processing. Accordingly the POS module can efficiently and flexibly accommodate multiple different workflows by plugging in appropriate add in modules.

The term user as used herein refers to any entity for interacting with the POS module. In a set up configuration stage the user may correspond to an administrative type user. In a transaction stage the user may correspond to a cashier or the like. If a self check out model is used the user may correspond to the customer herself.

This disclosure is organized as follows. Section A describes illustrative systems and devices that use the above summarized add in approach for performing a check transaction. Section B describes illustrative methods associated with the add in approach. Section C describes illustrative processing functionality that can be used to implement any aspect of the features described in Sections A and B.

As a preliminary matter the various components shown in the figures can be implemented in any manner for example by software hardware firmware manual processing operations and so on or any combination of these implementations. In one case the illustrated separation of various components in the figures into distinct units may reflect the use of corresponding distinct physical components. Alternatively or in addition the depiction of any two or more separate components in the figures may reflect different functions performed by a single physical component. Alternatively or in addition any single component illustrated in the figures can be implemented by plural physical components. to be discussed in turn provides additional details regarding one illustrative implementation of the functions shown in the figures.

In one case the transaction device is placed in a business such as a retail store . In this setting the transaction device enables a customer to pay for goods and or services provided by the business. However the transaction device is not limited to retail environments and indeed is not limited to business environments. In another case the transaction device can be used by a funds transfer entity. In this context the transaction device is used to accept payment from a customer for the purpose of transferring funds from the customer s account to any target account where such a transaction is not necessarily associated with a purchase of goods and or services . However to facilitate explanation the remaining description will set forth the features of the transaction device in the illustrative context of the purchase of goods and or services.

In one case the transaction device can correspond to a general purpose computing device that is programmed to handle transactions. In another case the transaction device may correspond to a special purpose device for performing transactions. In any event the transaction device can interact with typical transaction related periphery devices. The periphery devices can include one or more input devices such as key pad a touch screen input device a bar code scanner a check reader such as a conventional magnetic ink character reader device and so forth. The periphery devices can also include or more output devices such as a display a check printer for printing information on checks one or more receipt printers a coupon printer and so on.

The transaction device can include transaction functionality for performing transactions. The transaction functionality can be implemented using software hardware firmware etc. or any combination thereof. The transaction functionality in turn includes a point of sale POS module and at least one of add in module henceforth referred to in the plural as a group of add in modules . The POS module provides base functionality for performing transactions using a plurality of selectable transaction flows associated with different methods of payment using a check. Each of the add in modules provides specialized functionality for performing a transaction according to a particular method of check payment. At the time of a transaction a user selects a method to make a payment using a check. Based on this selection the POS module cooperates with an appropriate add in module to perform the transaction according to the selected method.

Each of the add in modules may interact with respective service providers to provide specialized respective processing of check transactions. For example representative add in module A interacts with service provider A . Representative add in module B interacts with service provider B . Representative add in module n interacts with service provider n .

In one case a service provider may correspond to a financial institution which sponsors a particular type of payment using a check. For example service provider A may sponsor an electronic transaction method for check processing. In this method the check is converted to an electronic transaction whereupon the funds are transferred from the customer s account to the business s account without requiring the business to manually deposit the check for settlement. Other service providers can also implement the electronic transaction method of processing a check but potentially in different ways than service provider A . At configuration time a user may configure the transaction functionality to interact with a particular type of service provider that implements the electronic transaction method of check processing if this method is to be used by a particular business .

Service provider B may sponsor a verification method for check processing. In this method at the time of transaction the business contacts the service provider to determine whether the customer s account is in good standing and optionally whether the customer s account has sufficient funds to pay for the purchased items. Other service providers can also implement the verification method of processing a check but potentially in different ways than service provider B . At configuration time a user may configure the transaction functionality to interact with a particular type of service provider that implements the verification method of check processing if this method is to be used by a particular business .

The service providers may design the add in modules to implement the check payment methods that they respectively sponsor. For example supposing that the service provider A provides an electronic transaction method of payment it may design the add in module A so that it implements the electronic transaction method of payment. Supposing that the service provider B provides the verification method of payment it may design the add in module B so that it implements the verification method of payment. Each service provider may use an associated protocol to interact with its add in module. Thus add in module A may use a first protocol to communicate with service provider A while add in module B uses a second protocol to communicate with its own service provider B where the first protocol differs from the second protocol.

Two methods of check payment were identified above the electronic check method of payment and the verification method of payment. These methods were mentioned by way of example not limitation. For example as will be described the POS module provides generic processing functionality for performing transactions using many different workflows. This enables the POS module to interact with many different add in modules associated with many different respective methods of payment. Indeed the POS module is generically designed so that it can accommodate new check payment methods that were not specifically contemplated at the time of the design of the POS module itself. Moreover the transaction functionality need not implement the electronic transaction method of payment or the verification method of payment that is it can omit either or these methods or both of these methods.

The universality of the POS module ensues in part from the use of a POS to add in interface module . As the name suggests the POS to add in interface module allows the POS module to interact with the add in modules . The POS to add in interface module governs this interaction using a protocol or contract. The protocol specifies that certain message exchanges take place between the POS module and the add in modules . One implementation of these message exchanges is described in detail below with respect to . Thus a new service provider can ensure compatibility of its services with the POS module by designing an add in module that conforms to the appropriate protocol. In one illustrative but non limiting case the POS to add in interface module can be implemented using a collection of application programming interfaces APIs . The APIs can make calls into the add in modules and receive responses from the add in modules.

The POS module includes or can be conceptualized to include multiple component modules for performing different respective functions. One such component module is a POS transaction module . The POS transaction module governs the overall flow of a transaction depending on the method of payment selected by the user e.g. the cashier . Because there may be multiple methods of payment to choose from the POS transaction module is designed to accommodate multiple transaction flows.

A POS configuration module configures the POS module in a set up stage of operation. For example the POS configuration module identifies workflows that may be selected. A subset of the workflows may ask the user to select one or more add in modules . When enumerating the workflow choices the POS configuration module can look for the available add in modules within a predetermined folder . Each of the add in modules is uniquely identified by the POS module . The result of the configuration operation is configuration information that is specific to the add in modules . The transaction functionality can store the configuration information at any location or at a plurality of locations such as in the affected add in module s within the POS configuration module and so on. As will be discussed below with reference to the POS configuration module can also coordinate the dissemination of the configuration information to other transaction devices.

The set up operation involves configuring the POS module itself e.g. by dictating one or more transaction flows to be used by the POS transaction module . The set up operation may also involve configuring one or more add in modules . The add in modules that are being configured may themselves contribute to the configuration process. For example the add in modules may invoke their own user interface UI pages to interact with the user during the set up process.

The POS module can also include a POS settlement module . The POS settlement module can perform settlement with respect to one or more transactions that have been performed by the POS transaction module . For example the POS settlement module can perform settlement at fixed intervals of time e.g. at the end of each day based on transactions that have occurred within that interval. Alternatively or in addition settlement can occur generally at the time that one or more transactions are authorized. Settlement represents the consummation of a transaction which may involve the transfer of funds between accounts and so on. The POS settlement module can operate on batches of transactions of predetermined maximum size. The settlement module can store details regarding these transactions in a transaction store . As in the case of the POS configuration module the POS settlement module can perform its functions in cooperation with settlement functionality provided by one or more add in modules to be described below . Alternatively or in addition a relevant add in module can also store transaction details for later settlement.

As indicated in the contextual setting of the add in module A interacts with the service provider A . The add in module A in cooperation with the service provider A can provide a particular method of check processing such as the electronic transaction method the verification method or some other method. The add in module A also interacts with POS module which provides base functionality for performing transactions using multiple different workflows.

The add in module A includes a provider interface module for interacting with the service provider A . The provider interface module can use any kind of protocol for communicating with the service provider A e.g. as dictated by the service provider A . In one case for instance the provider interface module communicates with the service provider A over a wide area network e.g. the Internet using for example a web services protocol. The add in module A also include a POS interface module for communicating with the POS module . The POS interface module communicates with the POS module based on the general protocol specified by the POS to add in interface module shown in .

The add in module A includes a number of component modules which complement the component modules of the POS module . For instance the add in module A can include an add in specific transaction module . The add in specific transaction module performs specific processing associated with a selected method of check payment. For instance in the case of the electronic transaction method the add in specific transaction module can interact with the user through one or more appropriate user interface pages to request specific information such as driver s license number if that information is used in that specific method of check payment. Further the add in specific transaction module can interact with the service provider A to determine whether the customer is approved for an electronic transaction method of check payment. The add in specific transaction module can communicate an authorization response to the POS transaction module .

The add in module A also includes an add in specific configuration module . This module performs specialized configuration of the add in module A in cooperation with the POS configuration module . In so doing the add in specific configuration module may launch its own UI pages.

The add in module A also includes an add in specific settlement module . The add in specific settlement module performs specific settlement processing associated with a particular method of check processing. The add in specific settlement module works in conjunction with the POS settlement module .

Starting with this figure shows an ID inquiry message exchange that is used for soliciting identification data from the add in module A . This message exchange includes an identification request sent from the POS module to the add in module A followed by an identification response from the add in module A to the POS module . The identification data provided in the response may comprises a global unique identifier i.e. a GUID associated with the add in module A or some other type of identification information. The POS module uses this identification data to uniquely identify the add in module A allowing the POS module for instance to enumerate the available add in modules to the user during a set up stage of operation. The details described here pertain only to one illustrative protocol other protocols may differ in any respect from the details provided here.

An authorization message may be preceded or followed by a batch size message exchange. This message exchange solicits batch size information from the add in module A identifying the maximum batch size used by the add in module A to settle transactions. The batch size message exchange includes a batch seize request sent from the POS module to the add in module A followed by a batch size response sent from the add in module A to the POS module . The batch size response identifies the maximum batch size used by the add in module A .

Any kind of network may be used to communicatively connect the transaction devices . The network for instance can comprise a point to point connection mechanism a local area network LAN of any type a wide area network WAN of any type and so on. The network can be physically implemented using any combination of hardwired links wireless links name servers gateways routers and so on not shown . The network can be governed by any protocol or combination of protocols.

In one case the transaction devices can communicate with each other without a separate coordinating module. In this case one of the transaction devices can be selected to serve a host function thereby coordinating the communication among the transaction devices . In another case the system can include one or more central modules . For example the central module can be implemented by a server type computer that is provided in a manager s office of the business or at some other administrative location.

Starting with this figure shows an overview procedure that encompasses setting up the system performing one or more transactions using the system and settling one or more transactions using the system . To make the discussion more concrete but at the same time illustrative and non limiting the procedure will be described in the context of the interaction between the POS module and the representative add in module A and associated service provider A . The operations described in can be extended to the case where other add in modules are used or any combination of add in modules is used.

Block entails receiving the add in module A from the service provider A . The service provider A designs the add in module A to conform to the protocol specified by the POS to add in interface module . Other add in modules can be received from other respective service providers.

Block corresponds to a set up operation that is described in greater detail below in the context of . By way of overview the set up operation entails presenting configuration options to the user and receiving the user s selection from among these options. The set up operation in block may specifically entail receiving the user s selection of one or more workflows to be used to process check transactions where the workflows in turn may be associated with one or more corresponding add in modules . The set up operation may also entail receiving the user s configuration of one or more of the selected add in modules.

Block corresponds to a transaction operation that is described in greater detail in the context of . By way of overview the transaction operation may involve collecting transaction data e.g. data regarding the customer s check data regarding the transaction amount etc. submitting the collected data to the add in module A for authorization receiving an authorization response from the add in module A printing various receipts voiding the customer s check if the electronic transaction method is used and so forth.

Block corresponds to a settlement operation that is performed to settle one or more transactions performed in block . The settlement operation can be performed at regular intervals of time such as at the end of every day. The settlement operation can proceed in bundles of transactions having a prescribed batch size specified by the add in module A . The settlement operation itself is performed by the POS module in conjunction with the add in module A . Namely when called by the POS module the add in module A performs settlement operations that are specific to a particular type of check payment method. In another implementation the settlement operation can take place generally at the same time as the authorization operation.

Block involves receiving one or more add in modules from one or more respective service providers . The add in modules can be stored in a prescribed location such as the folder shown in .

Block present check payment method configuration to user entails presenting the configuration page or some other configuration page to the user to allow the user to configure the transaction functionality . Block may include an operation of determining the add ins modules that are available for use. Operation can perform this task by using the ID inquiry message exchange see to identify the GUIDs of the available add in modules stored in the folder . Block may then include an operation of presenting workflow choices to a user. One or more workflow choices may be associated with one or more respective add in modules that were determined to be available in operation . The configuration page invites the user to select one or more workflow options and associated add in modules .

More specifically as shown in the configuration page includes a portion which enumerates different transaction workflows that can be used to process a customer check. One method is the traditional manual method. In this method the user e.g. cashier may optionally request the customer to present one or more forms of ID to ensure that the customer is who she claims to be and to provide contact information in case that check is later dishonored at which time the customer may be charged a prescribed fee . This method does not make use of a complementary add in module. Another method is the verification method described above . Another method is the electronic transaction method described above . The portion provides three choices as enumerated above but can include more than three choice or fewer than three choices. A user can select any one or more of these choices e.g. by placing a mark in check boxes associated with the choices. Selecting a workflow choice means that this workflow will be an available option for payment at the time of transaction.

As indicated in the verification method may entail the use of an add in module however in other cases the verification method may not involve the use of an add in module . Assume in the illustrative case of that more than one add in module exists to perform the verification method e.g. a first add in module provided by institution X a second add in module provided by institution X and so on. A drop down menu or other selection mechanism can be used to select the add in module that the business wishes to use to perform the verification method in this case the user has selected the add in module provided by institution X.

Similarity the electronic transaction method may entail the use of an add in module. Assume that more than one add in module exists to perform the electronic transaction method e.g. a first add in module provided by institution Y a second add in module provided by institution Y and so on. A drop down menu or other selection mechanism can be used to select the add in module that is to be used to perform the electronic transaction method in this case the user is in the process of selecting the add in module provided by institution Y.

Block entails receiving the user s selections described above. Namely in the case shown in the use has specified that check processing can use any one of the traditional method the verification method and the electronic transaction method. The user has selected that that the verification method is to use the add in module provided by institution X while the electronic transaction method is to use the add in module provided by institution Y. The user e.g. on behalf of the business can make these selections based on any criterion or combination of criteria. For example a business may want to select an institution that offers the lowest service fees or the institution that provides the most useful features or the institution that provides the most reliable service and so on or any combination of such factors.

Block entails configuring the individual add in modules that have been selected as per block . This operation can be invoked for the verification method by clicking on a set up command button adjacent to the verification option. This operation can be invoked for the electronic transaction method by clicking on a set up command button adjacent to the electronic transaction option. Consider in further detail the case in which the user clicks on the set up button . This action will prompt the presentation of one or more additional UI pages . The additional UI pages may solicit institution specific information appropriate to the electronic transaction method provided by institution Y. For example these pages may ask the user to input bank account information associated with the business subscription ID information associated with the business and so on. In one case the add in module that is being configured can invoke the additional configuration pages .

Finally the configuration page includes an OK command button to save all the entered configuration information and a cancel command button to abort the set up operation without saving the configuration information.

Returning to in block if the user activates the OK command button the POS configuration module stores the configuration information in its configuration store see .

Block optionally entails disseminating the configuration information from transaction device A to other transaction devices in the system as was described in the context of .

Block entails presenting a payment selection page to the user e.g. the cashier . shows one such payment selection page . The payment selection page provides a list of illustrative and non limiting payment options in portion . In this portion the user is invited to specify whether payment is to be handled using the traditional check processing method the verification check processing method or the electronic transaction check processing method. The options may also invite the user to select one or more non check modes of payment such as cash payment credit card payment debit card payment voucher payment and so on. The payment selection page may optionally display the amount of the transaction in portion .

Block entails receiving the user s selection of a payment method. In the merely illustrative case of the user has selected the electronic transaction method of payment as is indicated by the highlighted option which involves converting a paper check into an electronic transaction. Each payment method is associated with a different transaction workflow. Hence by selecting a payment method the user implicitly invokes a transaction workflow to be used by the transaction functionality .

Block entails performing the transaction using the selected payment method and associated transaction workflow. Depending on the selection the transaction may involve interaction between the POS module and one or more add in modules. The transaction for instance may call on the add in module A to authorize an electronic transaction payment in cooperation with the service provider A . The add in module A sends an authorization response back to the POS module which indicates whether or not the transaction has been approved.

If a transaction is not approved using the selected check payment processing method the POS module may revert to handling the check payment using a different check payment processing method. For example if the check cannot be processed as an electronic payment the POS module may attempt to process the check using the check verification method using an add in configured for check verification . Or the POS module may attempt to process the check using traditional check processing. The selection of a new check payment processing method can be performed manually by asking the user to explicitly select a different method of processing the check payment. In addition or alternatively the POS module can automatically invoke the new check payment processing method. If the new check payment processing method is automatically selected by the POS module the POS module may inform the user accordingly through an appropriate user interface presentation.

Block entails storing details of the transaction for later settlement. Various reports may also be compiled based on stored transaction information.

To repeat the above described procedure is representative other procedure flows are possible. In another case for instance the transaction flow that is selected can depend on one or more factors. For example the POS module can adopt a first check payment processing method if a transaction amount is above a defined threshold and a second check payment processing method if the transaction amount is equal to or below the defined threshold.

Beginning with block entails presenting the payment selection page to the user. This process was described in the context of . shows one such illustrative payment selection page .

Block entails receiving the user s selection of a payment method. In the case of the user has selected the electronic transaction method of payment.

Block determines whether the user has selected the tradition mode of payment. If so block is invoked which determines whether a print validation protocol is to be followed. If this block is answered in the affirmative then block is invoked which involves printing deposit information on the back of the check.

Assuming that traditional check processing has not been selected as per block the flow proceeds to block in which it is determined whether the magnetic ink character recognition MICR device is set up and ready to use. If so the flow proceeds to block in which it is determined whether a printer is set up and ready to use e.g. for printing receipts etc. .

If block is answered in the affirmative the flow proceeds to block where the user is invited to insert the check into the MICR device so that check information can be read from the check. shows an illustrative UI page that can be used to convey this instruction to the user. The UI page gives the user the option to alternatively enter the check information via a manual method e.g. by clicking on the Manual Entry command button . A cancel command button may return the user back to the payment selection page e.g. page of . The check information that is read from the check can include account data and transaction data which is information that is printed at the bottom of the check .

Block determines whether the MICR reader is successful in reading the information from the check. If the MICR reader cannot recognize all the characters the transaction device may ask the user to retry the reading operation.

Block entails the manual entry of check information. This block is invoked if the MICR device or printer is not setup and ready or if the MICR device is not able to successfully read the check information. shows one illustrative UI page that can be used to solicit check information from the user in a manual manner. Portion allows the user to input account data from the check. Portion allows the user to enter check number data from the check.

Block entails commencing the authorization process for the electronic transaction method of payment. As part of the this operation the POS transaction module can first verify that the add in module A is present and ready for use by making appropriate calls into the add in module A e.g. using the POS to add in interface module . Then the POS transaction module sends an authorization request to the add in module A using the POS to add in interface module . The authorization message exchange was described in the context of . In this process the POS transaction module can send transaction information and check information to the add in module A .

Continuing on to block optionally entails prompting the user for additional information as part of the authorization process. The add in module A itself rather than the POS transaction module may optionally perform this function. That is the add in module A itself may deliver one or more additional UI pages that solicit information from the user. In one case an additional UI page may ask the user to check the customer s driver s license. In another case an additional UI page may ask the user to explicitly approve an electronic transfer for the transaction and so on.

At this point the add in module A may forward all of the information that it has received to the service provider A . The service provider A may answer the add in module A by indicating whether the transaction is approved or denied. In block if the transaction is approved the add in module A in turn sends an approval response back to the POS transaction module . The authorization response may indicate whether the transaction is approved together with an associated approval code. The authorization response may also include text to be printed on a receipt. The authorization response may also include settlement data to be used for later settlement of the transaction.

Block asks whether the electronic transaction has been approved. If so block is performed this operation entails printing void information on the check. shows an illustrative UI page which instructs the user to insert the check for voiding. This printing operation ensures that the customer will not attempt to reuse the check and that the business will not attempt to manually deposit the check.

Block entails saving payment information in a database. This payment information indicates that payment has been approved authorized and that such payment is awaiting settlement.

Block entails posting the transaction and saving transaction data in the database. This action may entail informing the user that the transaction has been completed and storing data in the database regarding the transaction as a whole.

Returning to block assume that the add in module A denies the electronic transaction. In this case the procedure attempts to authorize the check using the verification method. This conditional flow of operations is merely illustrative other implementations may rely on a different flow of operations.

Block asks whether the verification method is available. If so in block the POS transaction module in optional cooperation with an appropriate add in module performs authorization using the verification method. As part of this method the POS transaction module can instruct the user to retain the check for manual deposit since the check has not been converted to an electronic form . shows an illustrative UI page for conveying this instruction to the user.

In block assuming that the check verification method is not available the POS transaction module sends a decline message to the user. The transaction flow can then return to the payment selection UI page of block which invites the user to select another mode of payment.

Now advancing to assume that the transaction has been posted representing the successful outcome of the electronic transaction method or the verification method or the traditional method. Block then entails printing a transaction receipt for the customer to memorialize the transaction for the customer. The transaction receipt may include the approval code returned in the authorization response for the case of the electronic transaction method along with the check number.

Block asks whether the transaction that has taken place corresponds to an electronic transaction method or some other payment method. If the electronic transaction method has been used in block the POS transaction module prints both a customer receipt and a merchant receipt. In one case the customer receipt may be identical to the merchant receipt. The user may ask the customer to sign the merchant receipt giving the business the authority to convert the check into an electronic transaction and automatically transfer funds from the customer s account to the business s account.

Alternatively if the electronic transaction is not approved the POS transaction module may print a denial receipt that indicates the denial of the transaction.

Assuming that the transaction has not settled as per block the POS transaction module creates void status information and adds this void status information the settlement data. The void status information includes an instruction to void the transaction together with enough detail to identify the transaction itself. The POS transaction module sends the void status information to the add in module A at the time of settlement. The service provider A processes the void status information by voiding the transaction in question.

Block indicates that the POS transaction module may print a receipt for the customer to indicate that the transaction has been voided.

Returning to block assume next that the transaction has settled. If so the funds may have already been transferred from the customer s account to the business s account. In this case block may be invoked in this operation the transaction is voided by processing it as a return. That is block entails creating a new transaction in which the business is presumed to have received back the purchased goods and provides a credit to the customer.

As another ancillary issue printer failures may occur in the course of a transaction. In one case an electronic transaction method of check payment cannot proceed if the following information cannot be printed a transaction receipt a customer receipt a merchant receipt and or void information to be printed on the check. Accordingly before processing commences the POS transaction module may ensure that the relevant printers are defined and ready for operation.

As another ancillary issue the process flow may permit a split tender payment. A split tender payment occurs when the customer uses multiple forms of payment to complete a single transaction. For example the customer may make a 100 purchase by splitting the payment into a 30 cash payment a 50 credit card payment and a 20 check payment.

The POS transaction module may perform a split tender transaction in a hierarchy of operations. In one non limiting case the POS transaction module processes credit card payments first followed by check payments followed by debit card and voucher payments etc.

If a problem is discovered in the course of processing the check payment component of a split transaction the POS transaction module will change the status of the previous credit card authorization to void that payment further the overall transaction will not proceed. The check payment can be voided and the resultant void information can be stored in the relevant batch for processing at the time of settlement. The user e.g. cashier will then be presented with the payment selection UI page inviting the customer to select another mode of payment if possible.

As another ancillary issue the POS module can print various reports. The reports can be used to identify and track various kinds of check payments. The reports can provide any type and combination of information relevant to the transactions. For instance the reports can focus on the business as a whole a particular transaction device or devices within the business checks processed using the electronic transaction methods checks processed using the verification method checks processed using the traditional method and so on.

The processing functionality can include volatile and non volatile memory such as RAM and ROM as well as one or more processing devices . The processing functionality also optionally includes various media devices such as a hard disk module an optical disk module and so forth. The processing functionality can perform various operations identified above when the processing device s executes instructions that are maintained by memory e.g. RAM ROM or elsewhere . More generally instructions and other information can be stored on any computer readable medium including but not limited to static memory storage devices magnetic storage devices optical storage devices and so on. The term computer readable medium also encompasses plural storage devices. The term computer readable medium also encompasses signals transmitted from a first location to a second location e.g. via wire cable wireless transmission etc.

The processing functionality also includes an input output module for receiving various inputs from a user via input modules and for providing various outputs to the user via output modules . One particular output mechanism may include a presentation module and an associated graphical user interface GUI . The processing functionality can also include one or more network interfaces for exchanging data with other devices via one or more communication conduits . One or more communication buses communicatively couple the above described components together.

In closing the description may have described various concepts in the context of illustrative challenges or problems. This manner of explication does not constitute an admission that others have appreciated and or articulated the challenges or problems in the manner specified herein.

More generally although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

