---

title: Analyzing return on investment of advertising campaigns by matching multiple data sources
abstract: In various embodiments, strategies, tools and techniques are provided for processing and analyzing data in an advertising measurement system accessible through a software-as-a-service model or a client-downloaded computer program. The system may be configured to receive and process household media exposure data, product purchase data, advertising data, program data, and demographic data, wherein the data may be obtained from various sources, including from a program delivery source (e.g., a television set-top box) located in a household of a consumer. The data may be matched and cross-correlated for calculating return on advertising investment measurements and other metrics. The data may be used to optimize media placement generally or to address advertising content to specific households. Methods for storing data in the advertising measurement system by distributing the data across multiple shards are also provided. In addition, methods for protecting privacy of communicated data are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07729940&OS=07729940&RS=07729940
owner: TRA, Inc.
number: 07729940
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
The invention generally relates to systems processes tools and strategies for processing data and executing programs services and other applications in a computer based environment. In various embodiments the invention more particularly relates to processing analyzing and cross correlating data associated with media programming advertising product or service purchases voting results for political advertising and demographic data.

Commercial enterprises need accountability for the significant financial resources they spend on advertising products and services. Industries such as television have seen an erosion of advertising resources spent relative to other media e.g. the Internet in large part because of the perception of a lack of return on investment ROI accountability. The marketplace requires a solution to a significant challenge in marketing accurately measuring each of the media in which a product is advertised to determine each medium s relative contribution to ROI with respect to advertisement expense. Advertisers need to know not only which consumers potentially viewed their commercials but also how many of the consumers exposed to the advertising actually made purchases or acted in response to the advertising content.

To measure advertising effectiveness in television media for example the viewing behavior of millions of households must be monitored and analyzed across an increasingly complex array of different television channels and program offerings. The problem has been exacerbated by the fragmentation of television programming options available to consumers through digital cable channels video on demand VOD digital video recorder DVR interactive television iTV and other diverse programming options. This problem has caused many advertisers to question the adequacy of current media accountability methodologies.

It is important to find ways to measure television advertisement exposure that are cost effective for a relatively large sample size of consumer households. A large sample is needed because the number of channels has become so great that the ratings for the channels themselves and especially the breakdowns of the audiences of specific programs by demographic groups typically become unstable and unreliable with smaller sample sizes employed with prior analysis methods. This means that the sample size must be sufficiently large to facilitate dissection of the results by exposure to media and marketing communications. In order for statistically significant results to emerge from analysis for a typical brand sample sizes in the hundreds of thousands of households may be deemed to be required. However such sample sizes are typically not cost effective in systems that require installation of new data collection hardware in the home. For example one important analysis negatively impacted by the unavailability of an appropriate sample size is a comparison of how the composition of marketing communications reaching consumers who switched to a subject product brand differs from the composition of other users within the product category who did not switch to the subject brand. Because of the importance of ROI of making marketing investments more predictable and of integrating marketing into a company s financial model most companies have engaged in econometric modeling to try to solve this problem. Many agree that such modeling lacks granularity and has numerous validity gaps leading to little or no impact on finding ways to understand and increase ROI.

In addition privacy has become one of the most salient concerns of consumers and legislatures since the arrival of the Internet. There is a sensitivity to the potential for privacy to be compromised by modern technology including marketing and advertising systems that acquire personally identifiable information about consumers. Accordingly the ways in which advertising data and consumer information are collected processed and analyzed must address the need for consumer privacy.

In view of the issues described above more effective and efficient systems processes tools and strategies are needed to provide advertisers and other users with accurate measurements of the efficacy of their media advertising campaigns while promoting and protecting consumer privacy and for purposes of media optimization targeting and addressability.

In various embodiments the present invention allows users to measure the sales effects of advertising among various return on investment metrics while utilizing household level data e.g. as opposed to market level averages . Embodiments of the invention can facilitate cost effective data collection and analysis for relatively large sample sizes. In addition embodiments of the invention can be implemented without the need to install or employ supplemental data collection devices in the household. Examples of such supplemental data collection devices include people meters bar code scanning equipment pager devices and any other device or hardware that can be considered an item introduced into a household in addition to or to supplement a program delivery source as described below and which is externally operatively associated with the program delivery source. Items specifically not included within the definition of supplemental data collection devices include software or other computer readable instructions for example that may be downloaded for internal use by a program delivery source and whose primary purpose is collection of viewership data or purchase data. Also a store discount card may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention to collect purchase data for example but such cards are not considered within the scope of the term supplemental data collection device as applied herein.

In various embodiments the present invention provides an advertising measurement system with the ability to cross correlate advertising audience data collected via television distribution systems from television digital set top boxes DSTBs for example and other program delivery sources e.g. Internet radio mobile devices others in multiple households with television program data with other market or media touchpoints e.g. print outdoor web pages radio and with product purchase data derived from those same households so that the purchase of a product or service can be viewed with regard to the stimuli that occurred prior to that purchase to the household making that purchase. Analyses conducted in accordance with embodiments of the invention benefit from being based on both individual household level data. Also such analyses are not necessarily dependent on supplemental data collection devices installed in the household i.e. devices supplemental to equipment already installed in the household such as DSTB . As applied herein the term household may include a single residential address for example or other like locations to which programming and or advertising content is communicated for viewing by consumers. The processing system may be configured to collect television tuning data from DSTBs validate the quality of clickstreams and combine the data with additional sources of information such as purchasing data demographic data advertising data and programming data. As applied herein a clickstream may be defined as a time stamped minute second record of media exposure events e.g. channel changes volume changes start stop pause etc. generated by media or program delivery sources a consumer controls with buttons or keys such as television digital video recorder DVR Internet or wireless devices e.g. mobile phones or digitized records produced by passive or active people metering technology. In certain embodiments clickstream may also encompass digitized data for media input from digital or non digital records such as subscription records newsstand sales or purchase records survey data diaries observational ethnographic research or many other types of records. A clickstream may also include all data that represent media exposure and that can be attached at a household level. It can be appreciated that embodiments of the invention may be expanded to measure other advertising media or program delivery sources such as the Internet radio handheld devices wireless devices e.g. mobile phones television distribution systems cable satellite programs delivered through telephone networks TiVo type systems DirectTV type systems or many others.

Through use of the advertising measurement system and associated calculations metrics data processing and other methods and strategies described herein advertisers and other users can be offered real time online access to web based dashboard research reports of the processed cross correlated data. This can facilitate reallocation of advertising resources perhaps shifting money from advertising with lower sales per dollar to advertising producing higher sales per dollar thereby increasing the ROI of the advertising content. Users can generate media research reports from diverse databases of the processing system which employs specialized data analysis metrics.

In certain embodiments the invention offers a software platform which allows advertising professionals agencies media researchers and other users to successfully measure and maximize advertisement campaign effectiveness and associated ROI. The invention can provide advertising customers with a portal to analyze the direct impact of marketing stimuli on ROI. Also advertisers may be permitted to supplement existing data in the advertising measurement system with their own advertising campaign information to facilitate analyses of information from various households including media viewing habits advertisement exposure levels and subsequent consumer purchasing behavior as a result of the advertisement exposure.

For example and by way of illustration embodiments of the invention may employ data collected directly from cable and satellite television DSTBs a known television industry term for devices used by television distribution system providers to convert and process video signals received from a content provider for presentation on a consumer s television screen. DSTBs are typically microprocessor based and generally also contain substantial memory and in an increasing proportion of cases return data communication paths. Downloadable software or other computer readable instructions are also available which can be transmitted into the DSTBs from a head end of the television distribution system for example to empower the DSTBs with functional capabilities to track tuning behavior comparable to other types of meters previously used to monitor television usage by marketing media research companies. The return data communication path capabilities can also be used to draw data originating from the DSTBs upstream to collectors and other data aggregators who can process and report the data. The technique may involve downloading a compact module of software into the DSTB over the satellite or cable transmission facilities. This module then acts like a hardware based meter in date stamping time stamping and logging the channel changes and other commands from the viewer to the DSTB e.g. turn on turn off sound up sound down etc. . Uploading such logs daily or periodically can capture with a certain degree of granular precision the television exposure patterns of each television set so measured.

The inventors have discovered however that it is often insufficient to use the raw viewing data generated by DSTBs. Embodiments of the invention therefore can be configured to apply one or more cleansing and editing algorithms to the viewing data to remove inconsistencies and account for potential limitations of the DSTB data collection software for example. Examples of such cleansing or editing algorithms include false positive editing to correct for the phenomenon of DSTB powered up when the television connected to the DSTB is powered down intab determination to remove data derived from households whose tuning records are insufficiently complete due to network outages DSTB crashes cable malfunctions and other like factors multi set top box editing to reflect multiple DSTBs within the same household outage surfing determination to adjust for DSTB record filtering performed by television distribution system providers or their software vendors and or geographic and demographic weighting to project the intab sample to the population of which it is a sample . More detailed discussion of examples of such cleansing and editing algorithms is provided hereinbelow.

However advertisers are often concerned not only with measuring what consumers potentially see their advertising content but also with how many of those consumers act e.g. make purchases in response to the advertisements. Therefore in addition to the economic challenge of measuring television exposure for a relatively large sample size of households it is also a challenge to measure the purchase behavior or purchase history of that same population of households. In various embodiments the invention may employ matching of name address lists obtained from the television distribution system providers with name address lists of those who possess product purchase records e.g. grocery stores or supermarket chains . For example many stores offer discounts to customers who agree to use frequent shopper cards or other discount cards at the point of purchase. Data derived from such discount cards allows the store to maintain a record of purchases made by consumers. In addition to products or services sold through supermarkets many other types of products can be tracked efficiently to name address lists associated with advertiser records. For example car companies airlines hotels car rental companies financial service providers and other types of business entities and advertisers may maintain records of the names and addresses of consumers who bought their products. For example in consumer electronics and appliance categories customers may register with the advertiser by completing a product warranty card.

By matching what programming each household has viewed or tuned to on a television for example with products the household has purchased the advertiser can know which advertising has worked and which has not worked. Media other than television can also be measured by means of the list matching approach. For example magazines and newspapers typically have subscriber lists on a name address basis which can be cross correlated with matching households that have been measured for television programming and purchase data. Also consumer Internet usage can be measured in these households by downloading tracking software into the computer systems of cooperating households to monitor Internet traffic and or by uploading Internet service provider ISP server records in a manner which protects privacy. Records of the household e.g. name address telephone number etc. can be cross correlated with matching households by adding the advertiser s direct mail telemarketing and other campaigns to the sphere of measurable marketing touchpoints. As applied herein a touchpoint is a term understood by those skilled in the art and is intended to encompass all means or media by which consumers may be influenced by marketing or advertising including but not limited to television radio magazines newspapers Internet outdoor media transit media direct mail telemarketing event sponsorships matchbook covers skywriting point of purchase materials in store marketing display mobile press releases and many others. In certain embodiments household interviews or surveys may also be conducted to complement results obtained from the list matching strategy.

In various embodiments the invention addresses problems with prior market analysis approaches by making data collection cost effective for a variety of media and marketing communication channels at the household level with enhanced precision and within comparatively larger household sample sizes. B and schematically illustrate an overview of an exemplary architecture and associated processes for collecting analyzing and processing clickstream data originating from a household in which one or more content delivery sources e.g. television A Internet B e.g. web pages via an Internet connection through a modem cable system wireless connection or other communication media wireless device C print subscriptions D etc. display or communicate programming content and advertising content to consumers within the household . In the example shown a DSTB is operatively associated with the television A and a digital video recorder DVR E. The DSTB may be provided to the household by a television distribution system provider for example.

At step program viewing data or clickstream data from the television A for example may be communicated from the DSTB to an advertising measurement system configured to receive and process such program data. It can be appreciated that clickstream data from the other content delivery sources B C D may also likewise be communicated to the system at step . In addition program data associated with content displayed or communicated by the content delivery sources may also be communicated to the system at step . Such program data may include actually aired program data scheduled programming data or other like program data. After edited data are uploaded to the advertising measurement system the data can be parsed into a searchable database by automatic electronic conversion into a relational database format wherein attributes such as date time channel viewing content e.g. program or commercial code household characteristics DSTB data and or other characteristics can be stored. Also one or more cleansing and editing algorithms may be applied to the uploaded data see discussion below .

At step product purchase data associated with the consumers in the household can be acquired. This product purchase data can be combined with the data uploaded to the advertising measurement system from the household . It can be appreciated that different product categories may employ different best methods to obtain or collect purchasing data within households . For example for automobiles the best method may be a name address match between the car manufacturer s sales database e.g. by VIN or Vehicle Identification Number . For major appliances warranty registrations provide a similar approach. For airline use individual airline travel records by household provide similar accuracy of purchasing data via name address match. For prescription pharmaceuticals the marketers themselves have access to household level data that can be matched directly to the households in a given sample. For financial services financial institutions often have household level information about their customers. Retailers analyzing their own ROI also have access to household level data that can be matched. For packaged goods RFID codes printed into packaging may be read by sensors attached to all doorway entries for example. In certain embodiments product purchases may also be self reported by households via Internet questionnaires for example. It can be appreciated that ROI measurements based on such product data can be based on changes in attitude toward product brands that drive purchase behavior changes and marketers generally accept that when their brand has increased its standing in the consumer s mind that fact can be measured by self reporting methods.

At step exposure of the household to other marketing influences or market touchpoints such as Internet surfing magazines newspapers radio etc. can be obtained or measured based on activity of the household . In certain embodiments measuring household exposure to market touchpoints can be facilitated by use of software modules downloaded into the computer systems of the household . Marketers are generally willing to accept that ROI patterns among the households with a DSTB are representative of ROI patterns among all households . In certain embodiments a relatively small sample of DSTBs may be placed in non DSTB households such that the artificially placed DSTBs are constrained to not increase the number of channels made available to the household and the non DSTB sample can be used as a check to ensure that broad ROI patterns observed in non DSTB households do not differ significantly from those measured in DSTB households . If ROI patterns do differ in such households then the artificial non DSTB household sample can be enlarged to allow more granular ROI analysis and the two samples can be weighted and applied together to represent their respective population proportions.

At step advertising data may be communicated and received by the advertising measurement system . In general such advertising data may reflect advertising content displayed on the television A of the consumer in the household such as when ads were aired at what times on what channels on what networks and other like details described below . The advertising data may also be derived from other content delivery sources B C D within the household . The advertising data may also be supplied by users such as advertisers who interact directly with the system to enter data into the system . In addition at step demographics data may be communicated to the system and proprietary data from advertisers or other users may be communicated at step .

At step each of the different sets of data described above i.e. clickstream data program data product purchase data market touchpoint or media exposure data and advertising data can be aggregated matched and or cross correlated and then stored in a suitable data storage medium or database within the advertising measurement system . At step this cross correlated data can be made accessible in real time to interested parties such as advertisers agencies programming networks and other users. Embodiments of the invention offer advertisers agencies networks and other users with household level data and report generators that can be employed to analyze the subjects of their respective interests. Among other functionality and features the report generators may include standard tables multiple regression analyses implemented at the household level statistical comparisons of households that switched to a given product brand versus the rest of the product category and model based projections of what the findings suggest should be the optimal reallocation of the marketing mix for a given product brand. Report generators can be configured to process and present a range of data and calculations of data including for example and without limitation ratings shares households using television or HUT calculations demographics of product users reach frequency frequency distribution trend and many others. It can be seen that embodiments of the invention can facilitate more accurate analyses of ROI on marketing investments on a more granular medium by medium basis. It can be appreciated that this tends to make marketing spending more cost effective and accountable. In the language of company management marketing investment may cease to be a black box within the financial spreadsheet of the company.

In certain embodiments data may be stored in the advertising measurement system without any personally identifiable information PII such that users of the system will have no way of knowing the identity of consumers in a given household . Most business entities selling products or services maintain customer lists. These customers may be identified not only in terms of PII such as by name or address but also by use of abstract identification numbers meaningless to anyone outside of the business entity that assigns the company assigning that identification number or account number.

To protect privacy of consumer information embodiments of the invention may be associated with a marketing research company and or a list matcher . Both of these entities may be involved in the process of compiling data on an individual household basis such as information supplied by supermarket chains and other holders of product purchase data information supplied by television distribution system providers and other suppliers of media data or other data sources or data suppliers . Such data suppliers may communicate their purchase data or media data for example to the marketing research company without PII grouping data instead by account number e.g. a TRA KEY number . Thus the data of each individual household can be identified by an account number associated with that household when the data is communicated from the data suppliers to the marketing research company .

In parallel the data suppliers may send to the list matcher only the PII and the account number associated with each household . The list matcher then creates a table or thesaurus which relates on a company by company basis each account number to other account numbers associated with the same household . The resulting table indicates for example that the household which cable company A calls account number ABC1234 is the same household that supermarket chain B calls account Number DEF5678. After the list matcher communicates the thesaurus to the marketing research company the thesaurus can be used to cross correlate media exposure data and product purchase data received from the data suppliers so that all data relating to a unique household can be anonymously associated with the records for that household . Thus embodiments of the invention overcome privacy issues by separating PII from other data and information e.g. media purchase etc. no single party has access to both household identity and household purchase or viewing behavior. A party that knows a household identity for example will not know the behavior of that household likewise a party that knows the behavior of a household will not know the identity of that household . The anonymized data can then be accessed and used by a variety of users such as advertisers A agencies B media C or other users D.

In certain embodiments of the invention methods and systems for identifying the value of specific households and DSTBs in those households in terms of likelihood that a household or consumer will respond favorably to advertisements for a brand e.g. whom does the advertiser want to be exposed to a given ad and likelihood that a household or consumer will be exposed to airings of advertisements for a brand e.g. how does the advertiser best deliver advertisements for the brand . Such methods and systems may serve as a guidance system for targeting television A commercials or other advertising content which can be delivered selectively by DSTB . Such commercials may be considered addressable commercials as known to those skilled in the art and may be communicated to each household by an advertiser A as shown in for example. Addressable commercials can be implemented using commercials stored on adjacent feeder channels on servers e.g. as in IPTV switched digital video VOD or network DVR on hard drives in set top boxes or television appliances TiVo etc. . In the context of addressable commercials various embodiments of the invention can be used to a determine which households should receive a specific commercial how often when and in what type of program environment based upon the correlation between the same type of household e.g. heavy purchaser of X product occasional purchaser of Y brand etc. receipt of such messages and its increased purchase of the advertised brand and b track the purchase behavior inducing success of such placements so as to further correct or refine placement strategies and tactics to improve purchase behavior production rates. By providing a means for more closely aligning feasible placement of advertisements with ideal unrestricted placement according to empirical purchase behavior correlation addressable commercials can increase return on investment yield for advertisers and other users.

In certain embodiments the invention may use digital video recorder or DVR E clickstream data coupled with purchase data to measure and analyze ROI and to drive addressable advertising such as addressable commercials . For example the system may be configured to analyze the effects of DVR E usage on advertising effectiveness in situations in which the DVR E is or is not used as a means of delivering addressable commercials . If DVR based addressable commercials are used the system can be configured to determine the degree to which use of the DVR E as a playback mechanism contributes to consumers fast forwarding or skipping commercials and the degree to which such consumer behavior reduces sales response to such advertising. If the DVR E is used as a means of delivering addressable to DSTB commercials either by insertion into normal pods or by means of showing self selected advertising as an option on the list of content available on the DVR E the system can be configured to determine the degree to which that addressable advertising of each type is not skipped or fast forwarded over and to compare sales rates produced by addressable commercials of both types versus non addressable advertising.

The middle tier of the system may be programmed with business logic and may provide various application services such as caching distributing computing resources distributing transactions data transformation authentication security and may serve as a coordinator of other application components. The middle tier may be configured with one or more web servers A and or application servers B configured for receiving input from the presentation tier interacting with the data access tier services to retrieve or update application persistent data and or sending processed results to the presentation tier potentially merging dynamic content with static pages presented to various users. The middle tier may be hosted on a set of clustered application servers B providing a robust and scalable environment for many different potential users. The middle tier may be configured to support multiple roles involved in the system including administrator functions session management processing credentials and security functions. The middle tier may also be configured to coordinate the use of server resources e.g. database servers C and communication among various application components via messaging services as well as managing itself in terms of memory and CPU utilization requirements.

In various embodiments caching performed by the middle tier allows the system to store recently used persistent data in middle tier memory for example which potentially minimizes time spent on repeated data retrieves and reduces the load on the data access tier . Authentication performed by the middle tier may be used to check and track user credentials in the system and manage user rights and privileges to view or modify certain application data as well as executing certain application services. The middle tier may also record various operational events such as dispatching database queries and their completion users logging in and out starting and ending data ingestion tasks performed by a data ingestion utility monitoring database node failures. By using distributed computing techniques the middle tier allows faster computation by splitting complex computational tasks into multiple subtasks and executing each of the subtasks in parallel on multiple processors. The middle tier also coordinates transaction management and distributing transactions to allow certain functions to be executed across multiple data storage media thereby promoting consistent performance of the function across all transaction participants. The middle tier may also perform various data transformation functions such as transforming data between among multiple formats such as HTML XML XSLT binary formats and many others.

The middle tier may be operatively associated with the data ingestion utility which can be embodied as a data feed control process configured to initiate acquisition of data from various external applications or data sources e.g. data suppliers or third party data vendors to make internal system calls to data cleansing and validation algorithms as described in more detail below and or perform other middle tier services. Functions of the data ingestion utility can be configured to execute automatically by scheduling data ingestion processes or can be manually initiated. The data ingestion process can be developed to clean validate transform and aggregate clickstream demographic programming and purchasing data received by or communicated from the advertising measurement system . The data ingestion utility can be used to upload clickstream data program data demographic data purchasing data product data and other types of data to the system . The utility may also be responsible for data aggregation index creation data correlation or cross correlation and may coordinate the execution of various editing or cleansing algorithms e.g. intab false positive outage surfing viewers per viewing household VPVH weighting failure etc. .

In certain embodiments the middle tier may include various services configured to interface with the data access tier and the presentation tier of the advertising measurement system such as through a Web Services interface as shown in . These services may be embodied as application programming interfaces APIs or other types of computer executable applications or software instructions embodied in various modules that execute various functions within the system and enable integration into one or more computer systems or legacy systems of an advertiser media agency creative agency or other users . In certain embodiments the system may be configured for direct data communication and or direct user interface e.g. through application program interface or API calls with one or more advertisers to facilitate tasks or activities such as report generation data collection e.g. collecting supplemental household data data analysis and or many other functions. For example an advertiser may establish a predetermined report or group of reports to be automatically generated for the advertiser by accessing a direct data connection with the system .

A statistics service module may be configured to encapsulate typical extraction calculations performed on clickstream data which can be used in reports and in macro functionality at the report level such that a request from a user to generate a report may only require making a single call or a single Web Service method. The module may be configured to correlate transparently clickstream data with other data sources programming purchases demographics etc. . An API in the statistics module may be configured to invoke supported reports e.g. return on investment or ROI reports true target index or TTI reports audience retention or AR reports advertising media exposure or AME reports reach frequency reports and others see below for detailed examples of such reports with their corresponding parameters. Additional API calls may allow users to set up report selection criteria and filtering common to all reports e.g. date time demographics etc. . Another API subset of the statistics module may be configured to allow browsing campaigns named demographic profiles products purchases and other data sources. The statistics module may function in connection with a database grid management service module to launch parallel queries on relevant grid nodes collect results aggregate the results perform calculations and produce a final output. Working together these modules may also monitor query execution on various database nodes in the data access tier and potentially retry failed queries on alternative nodes on which duplicate clickstream data is stored for example.

The database grid management service module may be embodied as an intelligent component configured to route queries to appropriate servers for parallel execution for example. The database grid management module may manage data storage media A B partitioned across a plurality of database servers route queries to appropriate servers for parallel execution keep track of data mapping and data distribution track communications with database servers track processing of the queries track combining and calculating data aggregation results duplicate clickstream data on additional database servers provide failover support if a server fails a query still could be executed on an operative server track availability of the database servers and schedule queries to available servers. The database grid management module may also track availability of the database servers on the data access tier and schedule queries only to available servers.

For example in certain embodiments to enhance system availability data ingestion can be implemented by failing an active database shard see discussion of shards below in the data access tier or taking it out of service so that queries can proceed on duplicate partitions while the failed shard is updated with new information. Once updating is completed the shard can be brought back online while duplicate shards can likewise be taken out of service and updated with the same data. This sequence of tasks can be implemented automatically by the database grid management module . As described below embodiments of the invention that employ shard architecture can be used to make a computer system and its storage media scalable and potentially massively scalable.

A report archiving service module may be configured to archive reports results into tables in a dedicated database A rather than in their final output format HTML PDF etc. making archived results searchable and more compact. Reports can be archived with all selected criteria. When needed the archived data may be extracted and a report produced in the desired output format. Because reports are archived in database tables they may also be used to produce trend reports over periods of time which could be longer than the retention time for raw clickstream data for example. Archived reports may also be used as a cache mechanism as long as a report exists with the same selection criteria as currently requested report there is no need to generate a new report and an archived version can be used instead. Generating a report may also be treated in the system as an auditable event.

An entitlement service module may be configured with an interface to a user management application which provides access to a database A of users of the system and their associated entitlements. This module provides functions for provisioning identifying and authenticating users of the system . The module may be configured to allow administrators to define user entitlement e.g. which reports they are allowed to generate which campaigns can be accessed which demographics can be accessed etc. . The module may also be configured to allow system administrators to create multiple tenants client companies and add end users belonging to each of them or to create a single tenant environment. Users belonging to a tenant will only be able to access the resources associated with that tenant resources and may not be made aware of the existence of other tenants.

A demographic service module supports creation and maintenance of named demographic profiles which can be used as reports filters. Named demographic profiles may be stored in a dedicated database A. As applied herein the term demographic as used in connection with data and other information includes for example and without limitation data that can be used to classify households into types such as when available income ethnicity psychological characteristics geographic data household composition data as well as product ownership product purchase data media exposure data and or any other segmentation approach.

A campaign service module may be configured to support creation and maintenance of advertisement campaigns which can be used in certain report functions. Campaigns can be assigned to individual end users and stored in a dedicated database A. As applied herein a campaign may be defined as a set of advertisements specified by a user of the advertising measurement system to represent a cohesive advertising plan component executed during a time frame media and or geography as specified by the user.

In various embodiments advertisers and other users may be permitted to supplement or revise data stored in the advertising measurement system with supplemental household data of various types e.g. purchase data demographics data advertising data market exposure or market touchpoint data and many other types . For example such advertiser supplemental household data may be derived from customer newsletters direct mail lists coupon redemption records special service or warranty contracts with consumers a custom segmentation strategy of the advertiser and or from many other like sources of supplemental household data. The supplemental household data may be used in connection with data in the system to enhance report generation or the performance of various data analyses for example.

A monitoring service module can be configured to provide visibility into the application state such as by displaying logged in users or showing currently running application tasks e.g. queries data uploads etc. . This module may also be configured to collect and make available performance statistics e.g. response times queue length etc. generate recommendations to rebalance shards or if to add additional components to improve system performance.

An auditing service module can be configured to preserve auditing events by documenting additions deletions and other modifications to data or information within the system by various entities or users . Such auditing events may be stored by author or user time stamp action taken or by other attributes of the event.

In various embodiments a clickstream data injection module may be configured to correlate clickstream data with other data sources e.g. programming purchases demographics and others . Also a product module may be configured to manage or process product related data and information stored in a database A and a purchases module may be configured to manage or process purchase related data and information stored in a database A such as purchases made by consumers in a household .

In various embodiments the advertising measurement system may provide users such as advertisers and agencies with tools to perform multivariate regression type analyses for example as well as marketing mix modeling. The system can be configured to perform multivariate analyses using data stored in the system such as granular and attribute encoded observations of ad exposure and purchase events within specific households over time for example. Such analyses can facilitate the allocation of weights to certain components or variables for generating predictive estimates of the contribution of each such component to the combined sales effect of all of a given brand s advertising and promotion. For example percentage ROI weights can be applied as a result of regression analyses which can be associated with specific creative media targeting frequency and recency attributes of a brand and its advertising strategy.

In operation the middle tier may undertake various data cleansing editing and format validation algorithms for data from television distribution system providers such as identifying duplicate records inconsistent records and or confirming that variables are within the range of allowed values and that data patterns match within predetermined parameters.

A multi DSTB editing algorithm may be employed to ensure that multiple DSTBs in a household tuned to the same television A network or other program delivery source count only once for the household such as for purposes of calculating rating and cumulative reach metrics. In the event that multiple DSTBs in the household are tuned to different networks then the household can be credited with tuning once to each different network. The multi DSTB editing algorithm functions to ensure that a household is not counted more than once toward calculation of households using television HUT among other calculations.

A DSTB may not be able to tell when the television A itself is off even though the DSTB is on. This can lead to erroneous measurements if the household is treated as if it were continuing to view the television A when it actually is not. A false positives editing algorithm may be applied to identify when the DSTB or television A is powered off and hence no viewing is in process. The false positives editing algorithm can use defined heuristics or rules to eliminate the false positive viewing periods when it is most likely that no one in the household is tuning to any station. The false positives editing algorithm yields edited tuning data that closely track the expected HUT Household Using Television as reported by other sources. In various embodiments the false positives editing algorithm can apply a rule that assumes that a household not making any clicks after X minutes means that the household is no longer tuning then after that specified time interval all further apparent tuning can be edited out. The inventors have discovered that optimal values for X can be between one and four hours. Additionally the value of X can be modified by demographics program type or genre specific program and or by permutations of these values and or can integrate information about signs for searching for weather or acceptable program choices prior to a period of extended inactive remote control usage for example. The false positive editing algorithm can be further refined by truncating the tuning at the next half hour hour or other daypart boundary beyond the X minutes duration parameter. The false positive editing algorithm may also be adjusted by allowing the value for X to vary by hour of the day or other daypart. Also this technique can be further refined by varying the parameter X in response to number of children in a household for example or age of household members among other demographic distinctions. The inventors have discovered that such adjustments can account for the nature of programs by daypart and by other variations in tuning behavior program duration retention rate etc. .

Alternatively another solution to the false positives problem include detecting changes in the input impedance of the television set A as a proxy to determine that one or both of the television set A or the DSTB have been powered down. Also this technique may be refined by identifying a turn off signature for each household by investigating the behavior of the household prior to powering down the television for the night e.g. certain households may check for interesting programs across channels before giving up or the household may habitually check the Weather Channel before turning off the television etc. . In certain embodiments home entertainment networks that allow different devices to communicate together and query the status of other devices on the network can be used to assist with solutions for addressing false positive tuning and other measurement challenges.

A weighting algorithm may be applied to match a panel i.e. a sample size of consumers in different households to census or demographics information. When using a sample or panel of households a subset of the total television population the households can be weighted so that the sample represents the same basic demographic statistics as United States census data for example. United States census data extracts can be obtained from external data sources . A data weighting algorithm can also be applied for outages such as when a geographical area suffers outages over a significant part of the measured households then the remaining in service households should be weighted so that the total demographic profile and the area s weight within the total measure universe matches what would have been the case had the outage not occurred. Factors to consider in applying the outage weighting algorithm may include the percentage of households affected or the duration e.g. time of the outage.

An algorithm may be applied to distinguish between lost data and data derived from channel surfing or other repeated changing of channels by the consumer to identify programming available for viewing. This algorithm addresses the issue of when tuning duration less than X seconds is invisible due to decisions made by data suppliers for minimizing the amounts of data they need to transport over bandwidth and it cannot be determined whether the invisible tuning is due to short duration surfing or to a lost data condition. In certain embodiments the algorithm may consider any invisible interval less than 60 seconds parameterized and could be set to values up to about 5 minutes for example as short duration surfing. Times longer than this predetermined interval are considered lost data. The inventors have found such an interval sufficient because it implies that the user continuously surfed for 60 contiguous seconds while never pausing more than X seconds on a channel. In various embodiments a minimum dwell time filter may be applied to data received by the advertising measurement system to identify and distinguish data derived from actual program viewing versus data derived from mere channel surfing.

An intab editing algorithm may be applied to address households that cannot tune to a television A e.g. because of cable service disruptions and which should be excluded from reporting statistics and data supplied to the advertising measurement system . In certain embodiments to be considered intab for a report period a DSTB must be intab a minimum of 75 of days by day of week for example. For instance if the report period is four weeks then the DSTB must be intab for at least three Mondays three Tuesdays and so on. After applying the 75 rule the number of days can be rounded up. Thus for example a one week report requires DSTBs to be intab every day of the week. If reports are run on daily weekly and monthly periods then interim versions of these reports may have been based on households that were intab when first run but became not intab for a later report period. Thus for example interim reports may not be identical to the same report run at the end of a month. A DSTB can be considered not intab for any day in which the DSTB was inoperable or could not return the status of the DSTB for more than 10 minutes or another predetermined time interval during the day. A household explicitly turning off the DSTB does not necessarily make the DSTB not intab. Conditions that could cause not intab periods include wide area failures affecting many DSTBs such as general system failures in the cable plant hardware or software a major weather event that impairs a significant portion of the system off line or area wide utility or power failures. Individual failure may also be a reason to make a DSTB not intab which can be caused by buffer overflow that causes lost data application software aborts and resets that cause buffered data to be lost or days when service was not provided to the DSTB e.g. service new or not yet been established or service disconnected . Any report period during which a DSTB cannot be unambiguously associated with a single household may be a reason for applying the not intab designation. For example a not intab designation may apply if the DSTB was moved to a different household but the DSTB still reported using the same ID as when it was in the previous household . Also any day for which the household opted out of allowing its tuning to be measured may be considered not intab. The actual tuning of these rules based on empirical results and validation methods allows the finalization of rules upon which media investment decisions may be made.

In the event that there is an absence of any positive indication that a DSTB is intab or not intab the following heuristics may guide intab decisions a household that shows no activity because the decision is made not to view television e.g. vacation may still be considered intab a DSTB that does not submit data for more than four consecutive weeks may be considered not intab for each of those weeks it failed to submit data this heuristic assumes that few households will be on vacation for more than one month therefore the failure to return any data is assumed to be due to a system or DSTB problem data integrity errors such as the DSTB was not associated with a valid household or no associated demographics with the household may produce a not intab designation not all data sources provide explicit information when DSTBs may have errors so a rule can be applied to require the DSTB to have at least one tuning record in the clickstream for the report period.

A viewership to purchase correlation algorithm may be applied to assist with measuring the effect of advertising on subsequent buying or product purchase behavior the terms viewership viewing and viewer can be defined as television A usage as measured by household and DSTB tuning records . In certain embodiments this algorithm can be executed to determine correlation coefficients relating advertisement effectiveness advertisement creative quality and related effectiveness advertisement scheduling parameters including specific creative execution commercial length pod position competitive protection distance from commercials for competing brands target segment day of week reach frequency recency network daypart program environment sponsorship versus commercial versus product placement etc. to changes in buying behavior. Such a measure could guide the decisions of an advertiser in deriving the most benefit from an advertising budget and advertising campaign. An ROI index report can be generated that includes two measures of the relationship increasers as percentage of targets reached and percentage increase in purchase revenue among targets. These measurements allow comparing ROI and ROI Index values among different advertising strategies under the assumption that advertising effectiveness differs by characteristics such as daypart and network hosting the advertisement airing. Such metrics can be divided by different product categories and their typical lead lag time to purchase. Non limiting examples of lag times between advertising and buying include weekly food monthly cleaning supplies seasonally clothing or multi yearly automobiles . The analysis of such dose response relationships may be further aided by the use of fitting to alternative shaped curves diminishing returns sigmoid etc. which have been found in marketing and in epidemiology in detecting predicting and explaining the response of populations to stimuli.

A data fusion algorithm can be employed to ascribe marketing demographics media exposure or other data from a marketing database to a second database or other databases. For example product usage data from a marketing database may be fused to household data that does not itself include that product usage data. Data fusion works on a statistical basis the data in common between the multiple databases is used to group households . For example if X percent of the group of households in a first database uses a given product then X percent of the households in a second database can be ascribed as users of the product.

Within the data access tier of the advertising measurement system data may be stored and partitioned in association with multiple database management system DBMS servers or shards as shown in the system architecture example of for sake of convenience of disclosure only four shards are displayed but those skilled in the art will appreciate that more or less such shards are possible within the scope of the invention . Every shard can be configured to maintain the same data structure or data tables while storing different data. The amount of data stored on a single shard can be determined by the smaller of the following two factors the largest cost effective disk storage size and the largest amount of data still allowing a desired query response time e.g. five seconds or less . As shown the shards may be configured to communicate with the middle tier of the advertising measurement system .

The inventors appreciate that the way data is partitioned in the data access tier affects the efficiency of queries. For example the number of distinct households tuned at least once over a report period to the identified time interval source or content can be used to calculate a reach measurement. However calculating this measurement becomes difficult if the same household is exposed to identified time interval source or content multiple times over the report period and records of those events are dispersed among different shards . To validate that each household is distinct the ID of each household could instead be aggregated and compared at a level higher than the data access tier . But such a data aggregation level would be external to the shards and this could cause potentially excessive data traffic between the shards and the middle tier thus adding more time to query processing. Therefore in embodiments of the present invention all information pertaining to a specific household may be confined to a single shard . In addition certain information may be spread evenly across the shards to avoid the situation in which some shards work harder than others. A hash function may be used to determine a location of a specific household on the shards such as when household related data needs to be accessed or updated.

As the amount of information within the advertising measurement system grows more shards may be needed to sustain a desired data processing response time. After a new shard is added to the system existing data can be rebalanced between the shards with a hash function taking into account any new shards now available. A similar technique may be used to constantly monitor performance of the shards and rebalance data between among them according to the actual average response time achieved over a period of time for example. This can be achieved by accounting for shard capacity which would be limited by the shard physical capacity but could be comparatively smaller for active shards and comparatively larger for less active shards . As a result of monitoring the capacity of each shard can be changed over time in response to its activity thus distributing the data processing load between shards more evenly. Such performance analyses load balancing tuning and optimization can be configured to be automated within the advertising measurement system to provide the system with a self balancing quality.

As shown in an example of an architecture having multiple copies of different partitions in multiple shards is shown. This arrangement allows for the event that if any one of the shards fails then the remaining shards would still possess copies of every single partition available and the system thus remains fully available. shows a redundant configuration with eight shards each holding one of four duplicated partitions . In this example a failure of any one of the shards would still leave the system fully available but eight servers would be needed instead of three as shown in the example of . However the additional servers could be used to load balance concurrent queries and improve the overall system responsiveness.

As noted previously query response time depends on data size. The fact that the data is partitioned into shards makes the shard data size not the overall database size a determining factor affecting the query response time. That data size should be small enough to sustain a suitable query response time which in turn may determine the number of shards needed if and to the degree that the data storage is sufficient. To further improve response time the existence of duplicate partitions could be utilized by load balancing queries between the partitions. For example if a query was scheduled against the first instance of partition A the next concurrent query could be scheduled against the second instance of the same partition A instead of running both queries on the same shard. The existence of duplicate partitions could be also leveraged during data updates. A partition instance could be taken off line and updated without significantly affecting system responsiveness in comparison to having the partition instance remain online still responding to queries. Similarly data staging cleansing and transformation can be performed on off line partitions to avoid affecting system responsiveness. The system can be continuously monitored measuring and tracking partition response time and generating rebalancing recommendations to move household data from one partition to another less loaded one. This can also help to improve the overall response time of the system by limiting the situations in which individual partitions become too slow. Also in addition to rebalancing the system can be configured to recommend adding components e.g. data storage media shards etc. to achieve an improvement.

The need to rebalance partitions may arise because some shards become overloaded or because additional partitions are created. In both cases the sequence performed by a partition to be rebalanced can be conducted as follows obtain a new hash algorithm from the middle tier accounting for additional partitions generate a list of households to be moved to different partitions and output them into multiple files one for every destination partition when households are added to new target partition obtain a signal from the middle tier and delete the moved household from the source partition. This algorithm may be applied to all existing partitions.

With reference to multiple data feeds may flow into the advertising measurement system from various business partners vendors and other external applications or data sources on a continuous basis. The system may acquire data stream feeds on a predefined frequency and timeframe from the external applications and data sources including the following types of data for example and without limitation clickstream data e.g. in the context of television programming this may be data generated by the DSTB which provides detailed information about a clicking event such as changing the television channel it may specify a cable box ID time of the event active channels or other data program data including scheduled program data and actual program data a program or programming may be defined as a specific piece of content such as Friends episode 100 for example which is a television program advertising data such as ad schedules purchase data such as purchase type data purchase information data or product category data demographics data and or other data such as marketing or markets data zones MSO data or many other types of data.

Upon receiving the data the system may execute various algorithms as previously described herein for initial data cleaning editing quality assurance and formatting purposes. Also data and other information obtained from the data feeds can be loaded into and stored in the data access tier for ready access to perform various measurements calculations report generation and other uses within the system such as various user interface applications of the presentation tier .

In the process of receiving and processing data the advertising measurement system may preserve the original raw data while making a copy of the original raw data set. The algorithms may be applied to the data set to format or prepare the prior to system data load and data within each feed may be validated prior to system data load. Initially data extraction may be performed to store the data in a landing area of the system . Once the data is extracted to the landing area there are numerous transformations that may be performed such as cleansing the data combining data from multiple sources filtering out duplicates and or assigning database keys. A staging area of the system may be configured with various database tables to contain the data in an intermediate form where it can be readily manipulated. At this stage applicable algorithms e.g. intab false positive outage surfing failure or others can be applied to the data and derived tables can be built. In a further step loading of data into the data access tier can be performed. This step may be implemented as part of the middle tier processing in order to partition the new data for example in association with storing the data in the data access tier .

In certain embodiments clickstream data originating from DSTBs of televisions A for example may be supplied in data feeds by television distribution system providers working in conjunction with DSTB technology providers. Program data supplied to the advertising measurement system may originate from cable operators advertising media firms and other third party data providers who communicate daily or periodic data feeds of scheduled television program data for example. Such data may identify what was scheduled to air on each television channel. In addition files containing replacement data for actual programs aired as ran logs can be communicated after e.g. three weeks after the scheduled program data is communicated. This data can be combined with other data streams to calculate ad campaign efficiency and ROI impact among other measurements.

Advertising data supplied to the advertising measurement system may originate from periodic raw data files received directly from television networks e.g. CBS which may be sent via electronic mail as a flat file with post programming data actual program data and ad data or may be derived from user input. Unless available from the television network ad schedule data can be provided by advertising customers along with advertising campaign definitions as entered through the user interface functionality of the presentation tier of the system for example. A sample of an ad schedule as entered by a user through the presentation tier is shown in . Campaign definitions may be used for advertising based analyses and campaigns may include one or more ads.

Purchase data supplied to the advertising measurement system may be provided by consumer goods data scanning and data vendors. The purchase data may include purchase data types and product categories which can be used to cross correlate consumer buying patterns with data such as household and program and channel viewing patterns obtained from DSTB clickstream data to measure marketing and ROI impact. In certain embodiments category product selections may be presented to users to identify which universal product codes UPCs have associated data and which UPC codes to assign to different product brands. Purchase type data may represent static data used to designate the data grouping as CPG consumer packaged goods durable goods or Auto for example. Purchase type data classification can be used to group data from other streams to allow raw tuning and program viewing data to be analyzed in terms of marketing and ROI impact for example. Examples of purchase data are shown in illustrates a mapping between UPC and product category illustrates a mapping between UPC and brand of product and illustrates a sample purchase category format .

Data feeds including demographic data can be provided by multiple sources including cable operators the United States Census Bureau credit agencies advertising customers and other third party data providers. The demographic data can be combined with other data streams to allow the raw tuning and program viewing data to be analyzed in terms of marketing and ROI impact. In certain embodiments the same demographic data per household may be used and stored for the entire report period being measured even when the demographic data may have changed during that period. The demographic data used are those that applied for the mid day of the report for example. Demographic data profiles can be preserved within the system to create the ability to view old reports using the then current demographic data profiles. In certain embodiments if the demographic data has changed during a reporting interval then the system may use the most recent demographic data available for reporting purposes. The demographic data can be applied at any geographic level and may include data such as for example and without limitation state county ZIP Code ZIP code 4 precinct voting district city block group block census block census tract markets or other like data.

Other data communicated to the advertising measurement system may include market data. For example there are different designated television market areas across the United States typically defined by county. Zone data may also be communicated to the system . Zone data is an MSO specific definition of markets within the customer base of the MSO and can be supplied by each individual MSO. Users may be permitted to specify zone data when defining the target group for any report.

In various embodiments of the advertising measurement system data stored in the system may be organized into various table structures for ready access and processing of the stored data such as for generating reports through the presentation tier for example. Many reports offered and generated through the system require ad hoc demographic geographic and consumer specific data filtering making it challenging to aggregate data or pre calculate certain results. For example relevant target households matching numerous demographic criteria comprising many different demographic elements may need to be selected and processed in real time. Even if a general population is the basis of a query households may be limited by geographic criteria. Subsequently many queries may be centered on ad viewing or program viewing fact tables which reflect instances of a DSTB viewing of advertising content such as commercials and program airings. As shown in the ad viewing table contains basic facts about a program viewing event e.g. viewing start time household ID and DSTB ID ad airing ID and the associated program ID foreign keys viewing duration jump in second and number of stay away seconds . The viewing start field can be calculated as a number of seconds. The household ID and the DSTB ID can be combined into a single four byte field leaving one byte for the DSTB ID within a household. Viewing start and jump in second data can be used to calculate the ad airing start. The viewing duration and stay away second data complete the data set. The program viewing table has similar structure and its relationships are shown on the sample table illustrated in .

An example of a purchases table is shown in which contains purchases made by household . Also an example of a households table is shown in . The households table may be used to maintain information about individual households and household specific demographics. For compactness demographic elements may be preserved in the table as individual bits in a demographic bitmap.

In another example a geographic area table may be provided to define geographic areas their names and types. A sample geographic area table is shown in . Also a geographic area ZIP codes table may be used to determine which ZIP codes belong to certain geographic areas. This table may be used in connection with queries and reports that require geographic filtering. A sample of a geographic ZIP codes table is shown in .

In certain embodiments a clickstream table may be provided to contain raw clickstream data. The raw clickstream data may be completely decomposed into the ad viewing and program viewing tables during extraction transformation and loading processes performed by the middle tier of the system . An example of a clickstream table is shown in .

In various embodiments the ad viewing program viewing and purchases tables can be subject to partitioning and placed into shards. The remaining tables may or may not be partitioned and may be maintained either only in the middle tier database such as in the case of the geographic area table or may be replicated to every partition such as in the case of the households table and the geographic area ZIP codes. Certain fully replicated tables may be designed sufficiently small to be loaded into and maintained in fast access memory rather than on a slower data storage medium such as a disk based file system. This approach may be employed to improve the performance of queries and report generation by the system .

Additional table structures which may be employed in the advertising measurement system include for example and without limitation the following sample tables an ads table see an ad airings table see a campaigns table see a channels table see a clients table see a dayparts table see a networks table see a product categories table see a products table see a purchases table see a program airing table see a programs table see a report selection criteria table which shows various report characteristics that can be selected or uses for generating reports see an audience retention report table for use with generating an audience retention report see an ROI report table for use with generating ROI reports see an AME report table for use with generating advertising media exposure or AME reports see a DSTB intab table for use with making intab calculations for example see a DSTB false positive table for use with making false positive algorithms for example see and a users table for use with maintaining information for various users of the system for example see . It can be appreciated that these are merely samples of table layouts format and content and many aspects of these tables may be varied or expanded within the scope of the invention.

In various embodiments the presentation tier may be web based and configured to respond to many different kinds of user interaction such as gathering information from the user sending the user information to business services of the middle tier for processing receiving results from the middle tier and presenting those results to the user . The presentation tier may employ a number of web applications which involve the middle tier receiving processing storing and communicating data with the presentation tier . In certain embodiments the presentation tier may be used to receive requests from users collect input from user interfaces provision and administer end users and manage their entitlements create and manage demographic profiles create and manage advertisement campaigns execute on demand and scheduled reports or return results for display at the presentation tier . The data presentation tier may be configured to allow users to manipulate report result sets add columns hide columns sort columns change report layouts add charts and pivot tables or filter data without requiring additional access to the storage media of the data access tier for example. Also other administrative and reporting functions may be performed through access to the presentation tier such as provisioning and administrating client organizations provisioning and administrating end users and managing their entitlements creating and managing demographic profiles and creating and managing advertisement campaigns.

All or part of the following information may be displayed on a given report generated by the advertising measurement system market this will display the geographical area type and specific geographical area that the user selected to generate the report target group this will display the demographic options selected time frame this will display whether a broadcasting day week month or other period was selected name of schedule the name of the schedule used to generate the report intab sample size this will display the sample size of the target group date report run date and time that the report was generated and or user name the user name of the current user of the system .

In certain embodiments an audience retention report may be generated by the advertising measurement system for access and display through the presentation tier for example. The audience retention or AR report measures how well an ad maintains its audience without switching away based on when and how the ad is delivered and the ad creative itself. Several examples of audience retention reports are displayed in FIGS. A C. The audience retention report may use the following data as inputs for example campaign data if applicable time selection report date range geography demographics column selection weighted or unweighted statistics ad airing selection included excluded media list ratings threshold and desired report groupings e.g. by daypart network or channel program half hour or target total . A daypart is a segregation of a broadcasting week into different hour and day parts. Examples of potential daypart options are shown in the tabulation of these dayparts may be applicable to a variety of different reports generated by the system . The system may then process the input data and return audience retention report calculations. This processing may include matching clickstream data and or applying one or more algorithms e.g. false positive outage vs. surfing multiset edit MSE census weighting projection to population lead lag time optimization conformance to existing statistics or others .

For example in generating the audience retention report in a specified format a first column may include selection criteria of the user e.g. by daypart network program etc. . For each instance of a selection a target record and a general record can be created and an audience column can identify which record is the target record labeled as Target and which record is the general record labeled as Total . The Target group and the Total group each may have their own calculated statistics. A sample size column includes the number of households who watched at least part of the advertisement defined by the advertising campaign selected by the user . A program rating column includes the rating for the television program associated with the advertisement. A rating column includes the percentage of households in the population tuned to the row identified time interval source or content averaged over the report period. A commercial rating includes a rating for the commercial. The rating can be calculated in the same manner as a program rating. A program cost per impression CPM column includes the cost per one thousand impressions on a program basis. CPM may be calculated as follows Media Cost Number of Impressions 1000 wherein a value for Media Cost may be supplied by the user . A commercial CPM column includes a cost per one thousand impressions for a campaign and can be calculated in a manner similar to the program CPM value. The user may supply the cost per advertisement which is a subset of a campaign. A perfect play percentage column includes the percentage of viewers that watched a commercial in its entirety. A switch away percentage column includes the percentage of viewers that switched away from the advertisement while it was playing. A jump in percentage column includes the percentage of viewers that switched to the channel while the advertisement was playing. A modal switch away second column includes the number of seconds after the commercial started playing when viewers switched away from the commercial most often.

In certain embodiments the audience retention report may also include a stay away column indicating the percentage of viewers that switched away from the advertisement while it was playing and did not return to the channel the advertisement was playing on for at least an hour or another predetermined time period . Also a stay away seconds column may provide an indication of the average number of seconds that the viewer user stayed away for those viewers who switched away from the advertisement while it was playing and returned to the channel on which the advertisement was playing within an hour.

The audience retention report may also take into account a ratings threshold so that if the report output is to be grouped by program or network or both programs and networks that are infrequently watched can be filtered out of the report. Also if the report output is to be grouped by program or network and a ratings threshold is selected then the user may be able to add programs to an included media list if grouping by program or networks to an included media list if grouping by network . Adding a program network to an included media list causes that program network to always appear on the report regardless of the ratings threshold. Likewise if the report output is to be grouped by program or network and a ratings threshold is selected then the user may be permitted to add programs to an excluded media list if grouping by program or networks to an excluded media list if grouping by network . This is similar to the concept of an included media list except that adding a program network to an excluded list will cause that program network to never appear on the report regardless of the ratings threshold. Campaigns and advertisements used in various reports may be entered by the user in advance including times and channels advertisements were aired for example. Also specific measurements may be limited to the amount and scope of data correlated to the DSTB data or demographic data for example.

In the audience retention report sample size may be determined by selecting all of the DSTBs that fall under the given selection of input data e.g. matching geographic demographic and or consumer specific inputs . The system may then count the DSTBs that meet the selected criteria and the number of matching target DSTBs can be displayed on the report. If the total grouping feature is also enabled then the total DSTBs can be displayed on the total row of the report.

In certain embodiments a reach frequency report may be generated by the advertising measurement system . A reach frequency or RF report may be designed to measure how many times an ad is exposed in a household and how many households are reached by that exposure. Examples of reach frequency reports are displayed in . The reach frequency report may use the following data as inputs for example campaign data if applicable time selection report date range geography demographics column selection weighted or unweighted statistics ad airing selection included excluded media list ratings threshold frequency grouping and selection and desired report groupings e.g. by daypart network or channel program half hour or target total .

The system may generate the reach frequency report in a specified format including columns for audience noting which record is the target record and which record is the general or total record cost this is the reported cost of the advertisements that were aired during the given time period rating points this is the sum of all ratings for the advertisement over the report period cost per impression CPM this is the cost to the advertiser for one thousand impressions impressions the total number of impressions received by a population average frequency this statistic is the average number of times that the target households viewed the selected advertisement out of those who saw the advertisement at least once and frequency of the all the selected households who saw at least one ad airing this is the percentage of households who were exposed to between Y and Z airings .

In certain embodiments a return on investment or ROI report may be generated by the advertising measurement system . The ROI report can be created on demand and allow users to determine how purchasing habits of a target group of consumers changed as the result of viewing an advertisement. The ROI report can be configured to compare the ROI achieved under different scenarios of target household demographics and ad delivery. This will allow users such as advertisers to see which parts of the day on which channels during which programs airing advertisements aimed at a target group or other demographics data yielded the best returns on investment. Examples of ROI reports are displayed in .

The ROI report may use the following data as inputs for example time selection current and base period report date range purchase data user type heavy medium or light category purchase rate user loyalty and or report groupings e.g. by daypart network or channel or frequency . The system may generate the ROI report in a specified format including one or more of the following columns or data fields first grouping criteria second grouping criteria if applicable percentage target reach the percentage of households of the selected demographic who tuned at least once over the base report period to the specified advertisement target average frequency out of the households that viewed the advertisement at least once this is the average number of times that a household within the selected demographic viewed the advertisement within the base report period target rating points the sum of ratings for the advertisement over the base report period cost per thousand impressions CPM targets the cost to the advertiser for one thousand impressions from households in the target demographic increasers as percentage of targets reached the percentage of households in the target group that increased their level of purchasing of the product advertised between the base period and the current period percentage increase in purchase revenue among targets of the target population that increased spending the percentage increase of money spent on a certain brand between the base period and the current period ROI return on investment on the specified advertising and or ROI Index ROI for the specific media vehicle or type versus the average ROI for all media employed by the brand during the time period specified and within other report filters the user has specified . The user can be provided with additional parameters to manipulate to allow the user to calculate an ROI measurement consistent with a specific approach of the user to calculating ROI e.g. based on total retail sales dollars versus incremental retail sales dollars gross or net revenue with or without long term advertising effects multiplier with or without consumer lifetime value CLV and many others .

In certain embodiments an advertising media exposure report or AME report may be generated by the advertising measurement system . The AME report may be designed to measure how well an ad delivery schedule reaches the desired target audience. Examples of AME reports are displayed in . The AME report may use the following data as inputs for example time selection report date range geography demographics column selection weighted or unweighted statistics included excluded media list ratings threshold minimum tuning parameter and or grouping e.g. by daypart network or channel or frequency . The system may generate the AME report in a specified format including one or more of the following columns or data fields selection the first column includes the user selection criteria listing the dayparts half hours or programs that are applicable to the analysis household rating the percentage of households using DSTBs during a specific daypart half hour or were watching a specific program divided by the total households household rating index a measurement of the rating of the target group with respect to the rating of the entire population households using television HUT is the percentage of all households tuned into any channel during a time period household share is the percentage of households tuned to a particular channel during a daypart divided by the total households tuned to any channel during the same daypart reach is the percentage of households tuned to the identified time interval source or content of households using television cumulative reach CUME is the number of distinct households tuned sometime during the daypart to the specified channel divided by the total number of households . Ratings and share calculations described herein may also be made per average second or in response to another suitable time period.

In certain embodiments a true target index or TTI report may be generated by the advertising measurement system . The TTI report analyzes the target composition of alternative media environments across large number of different target groups in a single report. The TTI report may be configured to compare the efficiency of reaching the true target audience e.g. defined by demographics purchase history etc. by different ad delivery means e.g. channel program time of day etc. . The TTI report may allow users to compare the effectiveness of defined advertising campaigns against each other when shown during specific shows via a rating index described below . Advertisers can use this information to reallocate advertising dollars to television programs with increased exposure to a target audience. Examples of TTI reports are displayed in .

The TTI report may use the following data as inputs for example campaign data time selection current and base period report date range consumer purchase data user type e.g. heavy medium light category purchase user loyalty may be measured as SOR or share of requirements meaning the percentage share that the household spends in a given product category or on a given product brand report groupings e.g. daypart network or channel frequency . The TTI report may be generated in a specified format including columns or data fields for program the first column may be an enumeration of the programs that are shown during the selected time period and a campaign rating index for each advertising campaign that is set up by the user executing the report .

A number of pre calculations system processing algorithms and post user input processing may occur throughout the generation of the reports. In generating the reports various data may be appended to a household which can then be distributed across analyzed segments according to the report parameters. For example some parameter values specify analysis of the viewership of discrete household populations while others split a single household viewership across multiple dimensions.

In association with various embodiments of the invention illustrates an example of a login screen that may be presented to users upon first accessing the presentation tier of the advertising measurement system . illustrates an example of a demographic selections screen display that permits the user to make various selections associated with the kind of reports or calculations that the user wants to generate in connection with using the system . illustrates an example of a campaigns screen display that permits the user to manage various advertising campaigns which the user is permitted to access through the system . includes an example of an included media screen display that allows users to specify which programming content or television shows should be included or excluded from analyses or reports generated in connection with the system . shows an example of a purchaser targets screen display that can be used to make certain selections regarding the purchasing behavior for example of households involved in a given analysis. includes an example of a targets screen display which may be used in connection with generating a true target index TTI report. include examples of screen displays which may be used for generating ROI reports in connection with the system . includes an example of a filter screen display that can be employed in generating various reports or conducting various analysis win connection with the system .

Various metrics or formulas may be calculated in connection with various embodiments of the invention. Non limiting examples of these metrics include perfect play percentage of DSTBs that also tuned unbrokenly to the first and to the last second of an ad airing compared to the number of DSTBs that tuned to any part of the ad airing switch away percentage of DSTBs that tuned to the first second of an ad but switched away before the last second compared to the number of DSTBs that tuned to any part of the ad airing jump in percentage of DSTBs that tuned to the last second of the ad airing but not to the first second compared to the number of DSTBs that tuned to any part of the ad airing average stay away seconds average number of seconds the DSTBs stayed away from a channel after switching away from the given ad airing stayed away percentage of those DSTBs that switched away from a channel and did not return to that channel for X hours wherein X can be a settable parameter such as one hour no play for a given ad that aired in a given program the percentage of DSTBs that tuned to that program for at least X seconds X being a settable parameter such as 600 seconds but that missed being tuned to that ad partial play percentage of DSTBs that were tuned to any part of an ad airing but did not tune to either the first or the last second of the ad compared to the number of DSTBs that tuned to any part of the ad airing and program partial play seconds average number of total seconds tuned by DSTBs to a program airing versus the length of the program .

Program metrics for program switch away program jump in program perfect play program no play program partial play program stay away seconds and program stayed away may be provided which correspond analogously to metrics defined for ad airings. In the context of programs equivalent behavior can be readily modified to metrics such as average percentage of total program tuned average percentage of ad time tuned average percentage of ads tuned missed and average number of switch aways among others.

One example of a metric is a rating. A rating defines what percentage of the total possible audience tunes to a time period of interest. Time period can be defined by one or more program airings commercial airings dayparts or arbitrary time intervals. Ratings can be based on a single channel or multiple channels. Ratings can be by DSTB by household or by households having applied a multi STB edit algorithm for example. The ratings can be aggregated as the rating per average second per average minute etc. The generalized formula below describes the idea of average second household ratings 

A program network CPM can be calculated by determining the number of ad airings from the selected campaign that were aired during a given program or network during the selected time interval. This can be done by examining the households that have been selected in accordance with the input data. Next these households may be filtered to determine which households watched at least part of an ad airing during a particular program or on a certain network. This can be calculated by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate households and determining if a household was tuned into a given program network. Using the cost ratio of ad airings belonging to a selected campaign and the number of impressions gained during a program or network the system can calculate the program network CPM as follows 

A perfect play percentage may calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. These DSTBs may be filtered to determine which DSTBs watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs to determine if a DSTB was tuned into a channel that an ad airing was playing on at the same time that an ad airing was playing. Next the DSTB may be further examined to determine if the time span that the DSTB was watching the channel started before and ended after the time of the given ad airing. The perfect play percentage can be calculated as the number of DSTBs that watched an entire ad airing determined by comparing the time spans of the DSTB viewing versus the playing time of an ad airing divided by the number of DSTBs that watched at least part of an ad airing as follows 

A switch away percentage can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. These DSTBs may be filtered to determine which DSTBs watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs and determining if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which an ad airing was playing at the same time the ad airing was playing. Next the DSTB may be further examined to determine if the time span that the DSTB was watching the channel started before the given ad airing started and ended before the given ad airing ended. This signifies that the consumer switched the channel before the ad airing was over. The switch away percentage is the number of DSTBs that started watching an ad airing but did not finish determined by comparing the time spans of the DSTB viewing versus the playing time of an ad airing divided by the number of DSTBs that watched at least part of an ad airing as follows 

A jump in percentage can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. These DSTBs may be filtered to determine which DSTBs watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs and determining if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which an ad airing was playing on at the same time that the ad airing was playing. The DSTB can be further examined to determine if the time span that the DSTB was watching the channel started after the given ad airing started. This signifies that the consumer switched onto the channel that the ad airing was on television during the ad airing. The jump in percentage can be calculated as the number of DSTBs that started watching an ad airing starting in the middle of the ad airing determined by comparing the time spans of the DSTB viewing versus the playing time of an ad airing divided by the number of DSTBs that watched at least part of an ad airing as follows 

A modal switch away second can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. These DSTBs may be filtered to determine which DSTBs watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs and determining if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which an ad airing was playing on at the same time that the ad airing was playing. The DSTB can be further examined to determine if the time span that the DSTB was watching the channel ended before the given ad airing ended. This signifies that the consumer switched the channel during the ad airing. Furthermore how far into the ad airing the switch occurred can be determined. Then after examining all DSTBs determine at which second most DSTB users switched the channel. The modal switch away second can be calculated as the number of seconds after the commercial started that most DSTBs switched away from the ad airing which is equal to the kth second that is used to maximize the following function 

A stay away value can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. These DSTBs may be filtered to determine which DSTBs watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs and determining if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which an ad airing was playing on at the same time that the ad airing was playing. The DSTB can be further examined to determine if the time span that the DSTB was watching the channel ended before the given ad airing ended. This signifies that the consumer switched away from the channel during the ad airing. If this is the case how long it was until the DSTB tuned back to the channel that the ad airing was on can be determined. The stay away percentage can be calculated as the number of DSTBs that started watching an ad airing at some point during the ad airing and then switched away for at least an hour before returning determined by comparing the time spans of the DSTB viewing versus the playing time of an ad airing divided by the number of DSTBs that watched at least part of an ad airing as follows 

A stay away seconds value can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. These DSTBs may be filtered to determine which DSTBs watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs and determining if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which an ad airing was playing on at the same time that the ad airing was playing. After this has been determined the DSTB can be further examined to determine if the time span when the DSTB was watching the channel ended before the given ad airing ended. This signifies that the consumer switched away from the channel during the ad airing. If this is the case how long it was until the DSTB tuned back to the channel that the ad airing was on can be determined. The stayed away seconds can be calculated as the average number of seconds that it took for a DSTB to return to a channel after it switched away during a given ad airing out of the DSTBs that returned within an hour of the switch away as follows 

Cost can be calculated by determining the number of ad airings from the selected campaign that were aired during the selected time interval. Using the expected number of impressions the expected CPM and determining the fraction of ad airings in a campaign that are selected by the inputted time frame and grouping the system can calculate the cost of the given ad airings as follows 

Ratings points can be calculated by determining the number of ad airings from the selected campaign that were aired during the selected time interval and determining the rating of each applicable ad airing which can be calculated as 

Next grouping and summing the rating for all ad airings for specific time intervals and channels as specified by user input can be calculated as follows 

Percentage target reach can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data. Next those DSTBs tuned to the identified time interval source or content can be determined. Then multi DSTB household algorithms can be used to determine and count overlap of DSTBs within a household . Dividing this result by the total number of DSTBs that were selected in accordance with the input data then yields reach as follows 

Cost per impression CPM can be calculated by determining the number of ad airings from the selected campaign that were aired during the selected time interval. Next the DSTBs selected in accordance with the input data can be examined by filtering these DSTBs to determine which were watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs to determine if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which a given ad airing was being played. Using the cost ratio of ad airings belonging to a selected campaign and the number of impressions gained during an ad airing the system can calculate the CPM as follows 

Impressions can be calculated as the number of impressions for a group of ad airings. An impression can be defined as a consumer interacting with an advertisement once for some period of time. Viewing the entire advertisement is an impression while viewing a small segment of the advertisement is also an impression. For example a DSTB consumer may yield one impression per ad airing. This is determined by analyzing clickstream data and determining which DSTBs from a selected population were able to view which selected ad airings.

Average frequency can be calculated by determining the number of ad airings from the selected campaign that were aired during the selected time interval. Next the DSTBs selected in accordance with the input data can be examined by filtering the DSTBs to determine which were watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs to determine if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which a given ad airing was being played. The system can calculate how many times each DSTB was tuned into one of the selected ad airings as follows 

The definition of the frequency Y Z column of the report may depend on input received from the user . It enumerates the number of households who viewed at least a part of Y airings Y 1 airings . . . Z 1 airings or Z airings. As many as X of these columns may exist depending on the input data. Finally if this is the last of these X airings the column is defined as Frequency Y which represents the number of households who saw an ad airing Y or more times. It can be calculated by determining the number of ad airings from the selected campaign that were aired during the selected time interval. Next the DSTBs selected in accordance with the input data can be examined by filtering the DSTBs to determine which were watched at least part of an ad airing. This can be done by taking the ad airings times and overlaying them onto clickstream data from the appropriate DSTBs to determine if a DSTB was tuned to a channel on which a given ad airing was being played. The system can calculate how many times each DSTB was tuned into one of the selected ad airings ad airing or how many DSTBs viewed an ad airing between Y and Z times as follows 

In certain embodiments users may be able to view implications of moving cut off points using a slider e.g. by moving the slider the user would be able to see that moving the predetermined limit for a heavy category designation from 144 ounces per week to 120 ounces per week causes the heavy category to account for 40 of sales dollars versus 33 of sales dollars .

In generating the reports described herein analysis of matchable clickstream data may be performed including identifying DSTBs that were watching a given advertisement during a base period determining the number of times that a DSTB user viewed part of or the entire given advertisement during a base period and counting each instance of an advertisement at most once per DSTB user and determining what channel what program and at what time the DSTB user viewed the advertisement during a base period. Analysis of purchase data may be performed by determining if a DSTB user increased consumption of the advertised brand between a base period and a subsequent analysis period. If consumption was increased the amount by which the DSTB user increased consumption can be calculated.

Additional statistics that may be calculated by the system include for example and without limitation the percentage of the population that viewed the advertisement at least once over the base period the number of households that viewed advertisement at least once the average number of times that households saw at least part of the advertisement the sum of the ratings achieved by each instance of the advertisement over the base period the cost of the advertisement per viewing given the cost of the advertisement by the user the percentage increase in the spending of the population that increased their consumption of a given product the percentage ROI on the advertisements aired during the base period with respect to spending in the analysis period and a normalized index of the ROI measurement.

Also an ROI matched weighting algorithm may be executed wherein the report can be run on an ROI matched subset of an intab sample with geographic or demographic weighting applied to cause the weighted sample to reflect external data sources. A projection to population algorithm may permit a user to input a number that represents a total population and the system can convert ratings and percentages into numbers in thousands for example. A lead lag time optimization algorithm may be executed to optimize the lead lag time interval between causal exposure and sales effect based on a least squares or alternative mathematical model to determine best fit with results i.e. to explain a maximum percentage of variance . Example lag times between advertising and buying include weekly food beverage monthly cleaning supplies seasonally clothing and annually multi yearly automobiles .

The household rating index can be calculated by calculating the rating for the target group selected with the demographic consumer specific and geographic input data and then calculating the rating for the total group selected with only the geographic input . The household rating index can then be calculated by dividing the rating for the target group by the rating for the total group and multiplying by 100.

Households using television or HUT can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data and determining how many seconds each DSTB was using television during the selected period of time. Next the total amount of time that each DSTB could have been using television if they continuously were watching television can be calculated. HUT is then calculated as the quotient of these two values as follows 

Household share can be calculated by calculating the rating for a given channel daypart and time interval calculating the households using television for a given daypart and time interval and share is the quotient of these two values as follows 

Reach can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data and determining how many of those DSTBs were tuned to the identified time interval source or content. Reach can be calculated as follows 

Cumulative reach or CUME can be calculated by examining the DSTBs that have been selected in accordance with the input data and determining how many of those DSTBs were tuned to the specified channel during a given daypart. The minimum tuning daypart parameter may be used as a criterion for determining whether a given household should count towards CUME or not. If the household tunes into a channel less than the amount specified by minimum tuning daypart then it should not be counted toward CUME. CUME can be calculated as follows 

As described above data such as clickstream data can be partitioned within the data access tier such that all information related to a single household is located in a single data partition. In order to calculate the reach or reach ratio across multiple partitions both counts distinct target HH tuned and total num target HH can be summarized for every partition and the results divided into each other as follows 

In connection with certain reach calculations the data access tier can be configured to be responsible for choosing a sequence of partitions A B C . . . n out of all duplicate partitions and shards load balancing scheduling queries e.g. count distinct target HH tuned and total num target HH waiting for and collecting responses from individual shards calculating the final result and communicating the final result to a service or module of the middle tier .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that both of the reach and CUME calculations described above can be performed for any selected set of target households .

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures table layouts or report formats described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused discussions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Any element expressed herein as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a combination of elements that performs that function. Furthermore the invention as may be defined by such means plus function claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in a manner as defined by the appended claims. Therefore any means that can provide such functionalities may be considered equivalents to the means shown herein.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer software language type such as for example C C .NET SQL MySQL HTML or C using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site .

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A propagation medium may include one or more data signals transmitted on one or more carrier waves. Such a medium may include any of the forms listed above with respect to storage devices and may further include for example a carrier wave modulated or otherwise manipulated to convey instructions that may be read demodulated decoded and executed by a computer.

A computer or computer system may be for example a wireless or wire line variety of a microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device e.g. BlackBerry trade designated devices phone smart phone cellular phone cable box pager processor fax machine scanner or any programmable device configured to transmit and receive data over a network. Computer devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating data. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external to the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and other computer readable media.

In various embodiments of the present invention disclosed herein a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

