---

title: Method and apparatus for establishing individualized subscription plans in a switched digital video system
abstract: A content delivery system headend is provided which includes a Switched Digital Video (SDV) manager for coordinating SDV sessions requested by subscribers over an access network. The headend also includes an input for receiving content to be broadcast during the SDV sessions and a subscriber control unit. The subscriber control unit is configured to compare channel change requests received by the SDV manager from subscribers to a current subscription plan that specifies a pre-established set of channels to which the subscriber has previously subscribed. In this way tuning information for accessing channels specified in the channel change requests is only supplied if the channel change requests request channels included in the current subscription plan.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407733&OS=08407733&RS=08407733
owner: General Instrument Corporation
number: 08407733
owner_city: Horsham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 943 301 filed Nov. 20 2007 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Limiting Access to Programming in a Switched Digital Video System. 

The present invention relates generally to content delivery systems that deliver broadcast channels and switched digital video SDV channels to subscribers and more particularly to techniques for implementing ala carte pricing that allows subscribers to customize their subscription plans by picking and choosing individual channels to include in their plans.

The popularity of cable television has grown rapidly over the past two decades. This popularity has been driven in part by the improved reception quality offered by cable systems and by the increased variety of programming available to consumers.

The cable television industry has traditionally marketed and sold its programs to consumers in bulk such as continuous feed broadcast and long term subscriptions to movie channels. For instance cable television may be sold as a basic package of channels which may then be augmented by additional channels or sub packages of channels e.g. premium packages containing one or more additional channels. The television industry generally does not sell its programming on a unit per unit basis such as the ordering of one channel. That is consumers are generally not able to pick and choose which cable channels they want and incur charges on a per channel basis a feature which is often referred to as ala carte pricing. Thus consumers are forced to subscribe to packages that may include one hundred or more channels only a few of which may be of interest to individual consumers.

Consumers however may in some cases prefer ala carte pricing because it may reduce costs and allow consumers to be more selective in their viewing.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a content delivery system headend is provided which includes a Switched Digital Video SDV manager for coordinating SDV sessions requested by subscribers over an access network. The headend also includes an input for receiving content to be broadcast during the SDV sessions and a subscriber control unit. The subscriber control unit is configured to compare channel change requests received by the SDV manager from subscribers to a current subscription plan that specifies a pre established set of channels to which the subscriber has previously subscribed. In this way tuning information for accessing channels specified in the channel change requests is only supplied if the channel change requests request channels included in the current subscription plan.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a method is provided for delivering programming over a content delivery system. The method includes receiving over an access network a channel change request from a subscriber to supply a channel available from an SDV system. Tuning information for accessing the channel is supplied to the subscriber only if the channel is included in a subscription plan associated with the subscriber.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention a method is provided for accessing channels over an SDV system. In response to user input a channel change request is sent over an access network requesting the SDV system to supply a selected channel. A control message is received over the access network in response to the channel change request. The control message includes tuning information for tuning to a channel different from the selected channel if the user has not previously subscribed to the selected channel. The method also includes tuning to the different channel as directed by the control message.

As detailed below ala carte pricing can be implemented in a relatively simple manner in Switched Digital Video SDV systems. SDV refers to an arrangement in which broadcast channels are only switched onto the network when they are requested by one or more subscribers thereby allowing system operators to save bandwidth over their distribution network. In conventional cable or satellite broadcast systems every broadcast channel is always available to all authorized subscribers. In contrast a switched digital video channel is only available when requested by one or more authorized subscribers or consumers. Also unlike video on demand which switches a singlecast interactive program to a user switched digital video switches broadcast streams making each stream available to one or more subscribers or consumers who simply join the broadcast stream just as they would with normal broadcast services. That is once a switched service is streamed to a subscriber subsequent subscribers associated with the same service group as the first subscriber can tune to the same broadcast stream. The switched digital video will often share the same resource managers and underlying resources with other on demand services.

SDV systems can simplify implementation of ala carte pricing because each time a user changes from one channel to another a channel change request is sent from the user s subscriber device e.g. a set top terminal to a session manager in the network s headend. Channel change requests are one type of message that is communicated between the session manager and the subscriber using an SDV Channel Change Message CCM protocol which can be implemented as a proprietary protocol or as an open standard. After a channel change request is passed from the subscriber to the session manager the session manager would normally respond by sending a message that requests the subscriber device to tune to a channel on which the SDV channel will be made available. The message also includes the necessary tuning information for tuning to that SDV channel. In the present case the messages may direct the subscriber device to tune to an alternative channel typically a channel that presents a message to the subscriber that the desired channel is unavailable under his or her current pricing plan. That is the correct tuning information for the desired channel will be sent from the session manager to the subscriber device only if the channel change request is requesting a channel to which the customer has previously subscribed.

Some or even all of the hubs are connected to multiple users typically via distribution networks such as local cable access networks e.g. HFC networks . For simplicity of explanation only each hub is shown as being connected to a distinct HFC network which in turn communicates with end user equipment as illustrated. In particular hubs and in communicate with access networks and respectively. Each access network and in turn communicates with multiple end user devices such as set top or subscriber terminals. In the example of access network communicates with set top terminals and access network communicates with set top terminals and and access network communicates with set top terminals and .

In addition to the switch or router each hub can include an array of radio frequency transmitter edge devices such as edge QAM modulators . The number of edge devices in each hub may vary as needs dictate. For instance as previously noted the number of edge devices needed to implement SDV channels is generally much greater than the number of edge devices needed to implement broadcast channels. As used herein the term QAM refers to modulation schemes used for sending signals over cable access networks. Such modulation schemes might use any constellation level e.g. QAM 16 QAM 64 QAM 256 etc. depending on the details of a cable access network. A QAM may also refer to a physical channel modulated according to such schemes. Typically a single QAM modulator can output a multiplex of ten or twelve programs although the actual number will be dictated by a number of factors including the communication standard that is employed. The edge QAM modulators usually are adapted to i receive Ethernet frames that encapsulate the transport packets ii de capsulate these frames and remove network jitter and iii transmit radio frequency signals representative of the transport stream packets to end users over the HFC network. Each transport stream is mapped to a downstream QAM channel. Each QAM channel has a carrier frequency that differs from the carrier frequency of the other channels. The transport streams are mapped according to a channel plan designed by the MSO that operates the network.

Each hub and also includes an edge resource manager for allocating and managing the resources of the edge devices . The edge resource manager communicates with and receives instructions from the session manager located in the headend . In some cases the edge resource manager and or session manager can be located in the headend.

Headend may also include a network DVR . The network DVR stores content that can be transmitted to set top terminal via a hub and access network in response to a user request to play a program stored on the DVR . Other user input requests are also serviced by network DVR including for example requests to accelerate the playing of a program in the forward direction e.g. cueing and in the reverse direction e.g. reviewing . The content is stored by the network DVR upon a user request. The content may be provided to the network DVR from any available content source including for example content source .

Headend may also include a variety of other components for offering additional services. For example in a video on demand VOD server is shown for storing programs or other content for distribution to subscribers on an on demand basis. Although not shown one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that other components and arrangements for achieving the various functionalities of headend are possible. For example the headend may comprise typical headend components and services including a billing module an advertising insertion module a subscriber management system SMS a conditional access system and a LAN s for placing the various components in data communication with one another. Headend also includes a customer subscription server which will be discussed below. It will also be appreciated that the headend configuration depicted in is a high level conceptual architecture and that each network may have multiple head ends deployed using different architectures.

It should be noted that in some cases the functionality of some or all of the headend components shown in may be transferred in whole or in part to each of the hubs and . For example Channel Change Messages may be communicated between the set top terminals and the hubs instead of between the set top terminals and the headend. In addition some or all of the functionality of the SDV manager and or the customer subscription server may be distributed among other components such as an SDV operations manager SDVOM which is sometimes used to configure and monitor SDV systems.

The edge devices provide programming to the set top terminals using the downstream in band channels. To communicate control information and the like with the headend and or the relevant hub the set top terminals may use out of band OOB or DOCSIS channels or an IP tunnel or an IP connection and associated protocols. However in some cases communication of control information and the like can be performed using in band channels as well.

Control information that may be communicated over the out of band channels includes the aforementioned SDV channel change messages CCM which are used to pass channel change requests from the subscriber to the SDV manager in the headend . In particular the SDV manager receives channel change requests for switched digital content from a set top terminal to bind that content to a session on one of edge devices serving that set top terminal s service group. The channel change request message is generated by the SDV application or its designated proxy resident in the set top terminal in response to the subscriber s program channel request that is entered by the set top terminal s user interface. The SDV manager responds to the set top terminal with the frequency and program number where that content may be found. The SDV manager requests the set top terminal to tune to the channel corresponding to this frequency and program number. The SDV manager also receives channel change request messages for non SDV e.g. broadcast channels in order to gather statistics that can be used to better understand subscriber activity and to provide information that can be used for targeted advertising and the like. Another reason to receive non SDV channel changes is so that the SDV Manager knows when the set top terminals are no longer tuned to an SDV channel thus allowing the SDV Manager to remove the SDV channel from the network to save bandwidth.

As previously mentioned since the SDV manager receives channel change requests for SDV and non SDV channels the SDV manager can be configured so that the necessary tuning information is only passed along to the subscriber in an in band or out of band control message if the channel change request is requesting a channel to which the customer has previously subscribed. If the request is not for a channel to which the consumer has subscribed the control message from the SDV manager will direct the subscriber to tune to an alternative channel typically a channel that presents a message to the subscriber that the desired channel is unavailable because the consumer has not purchased access to it. The message may also provide instructions to the consumer concerning how to receive the channel in the future. It should be noted that the message will generally be delivered in the form of an MPEG 2 encoded still frame that is maintained at the headend so that it can be used whenever necessary. The set top terminal will tune to still frame when it is directed to do so. In some cases it may be necessary to prevent the set top terminal from acquiring the tuning information for the blocked channel from an alternative source such as the active services list that is often transmitted using the mini carousel protocol MCP . This can be accomplished by sending a control message to the set top terminal instructing it to only tune to channels provided through the SDV manager.

The consumer s subscription preferences may be communicated to the SDV manager in any appropriate manner. For instance in one example the user may supply the preferences via an Internet enabled client device that accesses a user account database in a server associated with or in communication with the SDV manager such as customer subscription server depicted in . The client device may be the user s own set top terminal or another device such as a personal computer PDA networked appliance cellphone or the like. The user account database in the server may be accessed through an application level interface residing on the client device such as a web browser.

The customer subscription screen of may be presented to the user if the user has more than one set top terminal in his or residence and if the service provider offers subscriptions that distinguish between channels that are available on a single set top terminal or multiple set top terminals in the same residence. For instance the service provider may charge an incrementally greater fee for each additional set top terminal in a single residence on which a channel is to be viewed. The screen provides the user with a pulldown menu that presents the user with the option to establish a common package of channels for all the set top terminals or to establish different packages of available channels on a room by room basis.

Once the desired selection has been made from the customer subscription screen the channel selection screen shown in may be presented. The screen presents a channel select button which is highlighted or otherwise made visually distinguishable in to indicate that it is the selected screen. The channel subscription screen includes a field of channel cells . In each channel cell there is a channel identifying field and a channel number field . The channel identifying field contains channel identifying indicia such as one or more of the channel number channel call letters channel name and the like. In other examples the channel logo may be depicted in the channel identifying field for example as each channel cell s sole channel identifying indicium or in addition to one or more of channel number channel call letters channel name and so forth. In the channel selection screen a user may select particular channels to which to subscribe for example wherein clicking on a particular channel cell toggles that channel between a subscribed and unsubscribed state. The indicia within the cells of subscribed channels generally will be distinguishable from unsubscribed channels. In the event that the number of channels available is greater than the number of channel cells that may be displayed within the interface screen a scroll bar may be provided to allow a user to bring additional channels into view in field . A button is provided to activate the selections after a user s selections have been made using the channels cells . Actuation of the button may take the customer to one or more additional screens that may used to perform billing and other administrative tasks that may be necessary before the ala carte subscription process is complete. A user s previous settings may be saved in memory and an undo button may be provided that allows a user to discard any channel selections made and to reinstate earlier selections. If a password was not required to access the channel selection interface itself a dialog box requiring entry of a password may be provided when the user selects buttons or .

With some cable systems offering upwards of 300 or more channels customers may sometimes find the number of individual channels from which to choose bewildering. To assist customers in selecting channels of interest the service provider may offer packages of programs for a variety of programming categories that may be desirable to subscribers. For example selection of packages button brings up the menu of packages shown in . In this example a variety of package categories are offered including movies sports children s documentary and so on. One advantage to providing program packages using an SDV arrangement is that the service provider may be able to conveniently offer a greater variety of packages than the 2 or 3 tiers of subscription levels that are typically offered by service providers.

In the examples described above either channel cells or package cells may be selected directly from the interface by a user. In other examples however a more interactive interface and method for obtaining input from a user may be employed. For instance some users may prefer an interface which is even simpler and more automated. In this case a human oriented set of questions may be provided that asks the individuals about the types of programming in which they are interested. In some cases the questions can be posed in an interactive or wizard format wherein a series of questions are asked and wherein the answers to the questions dictate the subsequent questions. For example such a questionnaire or wizard interface might begin by asking if any of the users of the SDV system are children. If all of the users are adults the program might then avoid recommending any child oriented channels. On the other hand if the user indicates that a child or children will be viewing programming the wizard may then query as to the children s ages. After the children s ages are entered by the user the wizard may then recommend certain channels appropriate for those ages.

Some users may prefer to make their channel selections in an even simpler and more interactive manner than can be accomplished using the preceding interactive wizard interface. For these users the service provider may provide telephone support in which an operator obtains the input from the user and enters it on his or her behalf. In this way the user never even needs to directly input any information through a set top terminal PC or other client device.

In operation the SDV system will provision the customer s channel selections each and every time the SDV manager in receives a channel change request by accessing the customer subscription server . This can be accomplished by comparing the content of the channel change request to the customer s selected channels located in the customer s account in the database associated with server . If the channel request matches one of the previously selected channels the request to supply the SDV program will be fulfilled. That is the SDV manager will provide the customer with the necessary tuning information for the SDV program. If on the other hand the channel request does not match one of the previously selected channels the request to supply the SDV program will be denied. That is the SDV manager will not provide the subscriber with the necessary tuning information for the SDV program if such a match is not found. Rather a message will direct the subscriber device to tune to an alternative channel typically a channel that presents a message to the subscriber that the desired channel is one that has not been purchased by the customer.

The message that is sent when the subscriber device is forced to tune to an alternative channel may also inform the customer as to how the desired SDV program or channel may be acquired. Even if the customer had originally communicated his or her subscription preferences over a personal computer or telephone the message would ideally instruct the customer how to subscribe to the channel using his or her set top terminal. In this way the customer can subscribe to the channel in real time with minimal delay. For example if the subscriber is attempting to tune to a program such as a sporting event or news show that is to be delivered in real time the subscriber can quickly subscribe to the channel without missing much or any of the program.

Referring to the top of an OCAP software stack includes a Monitor Application Electronic Program Guide EPG SDV application and any other applications that may be deployed in a particular network. These applications are run on top of a software layer called the Execution Engine and interface to the Execution Engine using the well known OCAP APIs . The client device may also include certain software applications or Native Applications that do not run within the Execution Engine but directly run on top of the Operating System Middleware for the client device. Native Applications are typically written for e.g. a particular hardware configuration of the set top terminal. Examples of such Native Applications may include management of front panel functionality remote control interaction games and the like. The objects downloaded to the client device in accordance with the techniques described herein may include any of the aforementioned applications and programs as well as additional applications programs or other objects. However during an upgrade many of the objects that need to be downloaded may be directed to applications located above the OCAP application programming interface .

When acquiring viewership information in accordance with the techniques described herein the SDV application is loaded onto the set top terminals. Once installed the set top terminals can be readily configured to generate and transmit to the SDV manager the channel change requests even if all the channels in the system are in a broadcast configuration.

As noted the SDV application is responsible for communicating the channel change information e.g. SDV CCMs between the set top terminal and the SDV manager. The SDV application also receives from the SDV manager the control messages that request the set top terminal to tune to a particular channel or program corresponding to the tuning information provided in the control message.

The EPG displays information analogous to TV listings found in local newspapers or other print media. An EPG provides information about each program being broadcast within the time period covered by the EPG which typically ranges from the next hour up to several days. The information contained in an EPG includes programming characteristics such as for example channel number program title start time end time elapsed time time remaining a brief description of the program s content and possibly the names of individuals associated with the program such as the actors writers and director. The EPG which is generally received along with the programming content may be updated on a periodic basis so that the consumer can make appropriate selection for upcoming programs. For example the electronic program guide may display programs in a tabular format by channel and time so that the user can make selections of desired content. In some cases instead of transmitting it along with the programming the electronic program guide may be downloaded via a telephone line cable connection satellite up link down link or radio broadcast antenna. In some cases EPG may be customized for each subscriber so that it only displays those channels to which the subscriber is currently subscribed. This can be accomplished in a variety of different ways. For instance the headend may use the information in customer subscription server to ensure that the EPG information delivered to the set top terminal is limited to the subscriber s channels. Alternatively the headend may deliver all the available information to the set top terminal which may filter the information before presenting it to the subscriber so that it is limited to the subscriber s channels.

The processes described above including but not limited to those presented in connection with may be implemented in general multi purpose or single purpose processors. Such a processor will execute instructions either at the assembly compiled or machine level to perform that process. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of presented above and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of carrying those instructions and include a CD ROM DVD magnetic or other optical disc tape silicon memory e.g. removable non removable volatile or non volatile packetized or non packetized wireline or wireless transmission signals.

A method and apparatus has been described for allowing SDV system subscribers to conveniently pick and choose individual channels to which they wish to subscribe. This ala carte selection of channels is implemented by the SDV manager or other appropriate entity by forcing the set top terminal or other subscriber end device to tune to an alternative channel if the user attempts to tune to a channel not included among the individual channels to which the user has subscribed. That is the SDV manager will only send the necessary tuning information to the subscriber end device if the user requests a channel to which he or she has previously subscribed.

