---

title: Synthesis of chirally purified substituted benzothiazole diamines
abstract: Methods for preparing chirally purified substituted 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-benzothiazole diamines such as, for example, (6R)2-amino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-6-(propylamino)benzothiazole and purifying a dominant enantiomer of substituted 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-benzothiazole diamines from entantiomerically enriched mixtures of substituted 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-benzothiazole diamines are provided herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08519148&OS=08519148&RS=08519148
owner: Knopp Neurosciences, Inc.
number: 08519148
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080314
---
This application claims priority to and benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 894 829 entitled Methods of Synthesizing and Purifying and S Pramipexole filed on Mar. 14 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 894 814 entitled Methods of Enantiomerically Purifying Chiral Compounds filed on Mar. 14 2007 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The compound 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is a synthetic aminobenzothiazole derivative whose 6S enantiomer commonly known as pramipexole and commercially available under the Mirapex name is a potent dopamine agonist and thus mimics the effects of the neurotransmitter dopamine. Pramipexole has also been shown to have both neuroprotective and dopaminergic activities presumably through inhibition of lipid peroxidation normalization of mitochondrial metabolism and or detoxification of oxygen radicals. Therefore pramipexole may have utility as an inhibitor of the cell death cascades and loss of cell viability observed in neurodegenerative diseases and is indicated for treating Parkinson s disease cluster headaches restless legs syndrome and bipolar disorder with only small daily doses required and tolerated by patients activates dopamine receptors. Additionally oxidative stress may be caused by an increase in oxygen and other free radicals and has been associated with the fatal neurodegenerative disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS . ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder involving the motor neurons of the cortex brain stem and spinal cord. About 10 of all ALS patients are familial cases of which 20 have mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 SOD 1 gene. The SOD 1 enzyme may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and progression of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis FALS . Recent studies also link the premature neuronal death associated with ALS to mutated mitochondrial genes which lead to abnormalities in functioning of the energy production pathways in mitochondria.

The neuroprotectant activity of both enantiomers of pramipexole have typical therapeutic doses expected to be in the range of about 10 mg day to about 1 500 mg day. However the pramipexole s agonistic effect on of the Dfamily of dopamine receptors only requires therapeutic doses that range between 0.5 and 5.0 mg day and even these relatively low doses adverse side effects have been reported. For example the Boehringer Ingelheim product insert for Mirapex sets the maximally tolerated dose for humans at 4.5 mg day and a dose of pramipexole as low as 1.5 mg has been shown to cause somnolence in humans. Single dose toxicity of pramipexole after oral administration has been studied in rodents dogs monkeys and humans. In rodents death occurred at doses of 70 105 mg kg and above which is equivalent to a human dose of 7 12 mg kg or approximately 500 850 mg for a 70 kg 150 lb individual. In dogs vomiting occurred at 0.0007 mg kg and above while monkeys displayed major excitation at 3.5 mg kg. In human subjects an initial single dose of pramipexole of greater than 0.20 mg was not tolerated. All species showed signs of toxicity related to exaggerated pharmacodynamic responses to the pramipexole related to dopaminergic agonism.

Thus a clinical use of pramipexole as a mitochondria targeted antioxidant is unlikely as the high doses needed for the neuroprotective or anti oxidative mitochondrial. normalization action are not accessible due to high dopamine receptor affinity associated with the 6S enantiomer. In contrast 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine is an effective mitochondria targeted neuroprotectant that exhibits excellent anti oxidative properties when administered without adverse side effects. Thus higher doses of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine can be tolerated by patients and will allow greater brain spinal cord and mitochondrial concentrations increasing the degree to which oxidative stress and or mitochondrial dysfunction may be reduced. The neuroprotective effect of the compositions of this disclosure may also be derived at least in part from the ability of the 6R enantiomer of pramipexole to prevent neural cell death by at least one of three mechanisms. First the 6R enantiomer of pramipexole may be capable of reducing the formation of reactive oxygen species in cells with impaired mitochondrial energy production. Second the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may partially restore the reduced mitochondrial membrane potential that is correlated with Alzheimer s Parkinson s Huntington s and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis diseases. Third the 6R enantiomer of pramipexole may block the apoptotic cell death pathways which are produced by pharmacological models of Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Huntington s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis diseases and mitochondrial impairment. High doses of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine required to elicit these neuroprotective effects generally require highly pure preparations of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine which take into account the upper limit of 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine contamination 0.5 mg to 5.0 mg .

Processes for the preparation of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole using a simple alkylation reaction were first described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 843 086 and 4 886 812. Other preparations of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole have been described that involve reductive amination rather than simple alkylation and thus produce a mixture of the R and S optical isomers with no direct means for further purification of the optical isomers. These known processes for the production of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole are expensive labor intensive and utilize hydride reducing agents that pose safety risks. Furthermore there are currently no known processes for the direct synthesis of the pure 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine from a diamine. Therefore the R isomer must be synthesized as a mixture of the optical isomers that is purified by expensive and time consuming methods that may utilize other problematic substances. Moreover known processes involving deamination result in a loss of enantiomeric purity and methods useful for resolution of the optical isomers from mixtures fall short of producing chirally and chemically pure preparations of the R enantiomer or the S enantiomer.

Embodiments of the invention presented herein are directed to a process for preparing a chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothaizole diamine including the steps of heating a solution comprising entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of general formula 1 

The chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of various embodiments may be at least greater than about 97 chirally pure. In some embodiments the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be at least greater than about 99 chirally pure and in other embodiments chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is at least about 99.9 chirally pure.

The chemical purity of the substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of various embodiments may be greater than about 99 . In some embodiments the chemical purity of the substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be greater than about 99.9 and in other embodiments the chemical purity of the substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is greater than about 99.99 .

In some embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be entantiomerically enriched for an 6R entantiomer and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is chirally purified for an 6R entantiomer and in particular embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be entantiomerically enriched for 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In other embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be entantiomerically enriched for an 6S entantiomer and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is chirally purified for an 6S entantiomer and in certain embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be entantiomerically enriched for 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole is 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In still other embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzothiazole diamine may be a ratio of greater than about 1 4 6R entantiomer to 6S entantiomer to about 4 1 6R entantiomer to 6S entantiomer.

The solvent of various embodiments may be selected from an organic solvent and an organic solvent mixed with water and in some embodiments the solvent may selected from but not limited to ethanol 1 propanol n butanol dihydrofuran dimethylformamide dimethyl dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoric triamide or mixtures or hydrates thereof.

In some embodiments the steps of heating reacting and recovering each independently include stirring. In other embodiments the steps of heating and reacting may each independently be carried out at a temperature of from about 50 C. to about 125 C. In yet other embodiments the step of heating may further include adding the alkyl sulfonate or alkyl halide to the heated 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine. In still other embodiments the step of adding may be carried out for about 0.5 hours to about 2 hours and in certain embodiments about 1.0 to about 2.0 molar equivalents of the alkly sulfonate or alkyl halide may be added. In particular embodiments the step of reacting may be carried out for up to about 12 hours. In yet other embodiments the step of recovering may include one or more steps selected from but not limited to filtering the reaction mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate and the process of certain embodiments may include the step of cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. after the step of reacting.

Other embodiments of the invention include a process for preparing a chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine including the steps of heating a solution comprising an entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of general formula 1 

In some embodiments the propyl sulfonate may be selected from n propyl tosylate n propyl methoxysulfonate and combinations thereof and in other embodiments the propyl halide is selected from n propyl bromide n propyl chloride n propyl fluoride n propyl iodide and combinations thereof.

The chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of various embodiments may be at least greater than about 97 chirally pure. In some embodiments the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is at least greater than about 99 chirally pure and in other embodiments the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is at least about 99.9 chirally pure.

The chemical purity of the substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of various embodiments may be greater than about 99 . In some embodiments the chemical purity of the substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is greater than about 99.9 and in other embodiments the chemical purity of the substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine is greater than about 99.99 .

In certain embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be enriched for 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In certain other embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be enriched for 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In some embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may include a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may include a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In particular embodiments the mixture may be a racemic mixture. In other embodiments the enantiomerically enriched mixture may be a ratio of greater than about 1 4 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine to about 4 1 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine.

In some embodiments the solvent may be selected from a polar or organic solvent and a polar or organic solvent mixed with water and in certain embodiments the solvent may be selected from ethanol 1 propanol n butanol dihydrofuran dimethylformamide dimethyl dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoric triamide or mixtures or hydrates thereof. In other embodiments the steps of heating and reacting each independently may include stirring. In still other embodiments the steps of heating adding and reacting may each independently be carried out at a temperature of from about 50 C. to about 125 C. In yet other embodiments the process may further include the step of cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. after the step of reacting. In particular embodiments the step of adding may be carried out for up to about 2 hours. Various embodiments may further include the step of recovering the chirally purified substituted 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine and in some embodiments recovering may include one or more steps selected from filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate. In particular embodiments about 1.0 to about 2.0 molar equivalents of the propyl sulfonate or propyl halide may be added.

Various embodiments of the invention also include chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole prepared by a process including the steps of heating a solution comprising entantiomerically enriched 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and a propyl halide or a propyl sulfonate to form a reaction mixture reacting the reaction mixture and recovering the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. In some embodiments the propyl sulfonate may be selected. from but not limited to n propyl tosylate n propyl methoxysulfonate and combinations thereof and in other embodiments the propyl halide may be selected from n propyl bromide n propyl chloride n propyl fluoride n propyl iodide and combinations thereof.

In various embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least greater than about 97 chirally pure. In some embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least greater than about 99 chirally pure and in other embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is at least about 99.9 chirally pure.

The chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole of various embodiments may be greater than about 99 . In some embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is greater than about 99.9 and in other embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is greater than about 99.99 .

In particular embodiments the entantiomerically enriched 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be a ratio of greater than about 2 1 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole to 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole.

In some embodiments the solvent may be selected from an organic solvent and an organic solvent mixed with water and in certain embodiments the solvent may be selected from ethanol 1 propanol n butanol dihydrofuran dimethylformamide dimethyl dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoric triamide or mixtures or hydrates thereof.

In various embodiments the steps of heating and reacting may each independently include stirring and in some embodiments the steps of heating and reacting may each be independently carried out at a temperature of from about 50 C. to about 125 C. In other embodiments the process may further include cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. after the step of reacting. In yet other embodiments the process may further include the step of adding the propyl halide or propyl sulfunate to heated entantiomerically enriched 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and in certain embodiments the step of adding may be carried out for up to about 2 hours. In particular embodiments about 1.0 to about 2.0 molar equivalents of the propyl sulfonate or propyl halide may be added. In still other embodiments the step of reacting may be carried out for up to about 12 hours. In further embodiments the step of recovering may include one or more steps selected from filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate.

Various other embodiments of the invention include a process for preparing a chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole including the steps of heating a solution comprising 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole in an organic solvent adding to the heated solution propyl sulfonate or a propyl halide to form a reaction mixture and reacting the reaction mixture for up to about 12 hours. In some embodiments the propyl sulfonate may be selected from n propyl tosylate n propyl methoxysulfonate and combinations thereof and in other embodiments the propyl halide is selected from n propyl bromide n propyl chloride n propyl fluoride n propyl iodide and combinations thereof.

The process of embodiments may result in chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole that is at least greater than about 97 chirally pure. In some embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least greater than about 99 chirally pure and in other embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least about 99.9 chirally pure.

The chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole of some embodiments may be greater than about 99 . In certain embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be greater than about 99.9 and in certain other embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be greater than about 99.99 .

In some embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In other embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In still other embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be a mixture of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In certain embodiments the mixture is a racemic mixture. In other embodiments the mixture may be a ratio of greater than about 1 4 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole to about 4 1 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole.

The organic solvent of embodiments may be selected from an organic solvent and an organic solvent is mixed with water and in some embodiments the organic solvent may be selected from ethanol 1 propanol n butanol dihydrofuran dimethylformamide dimethyl dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoric triamide or mixtures or hydrates thereof.

In various embodiments the steps of heating adding and reacting each independently may include stirring and in some embodiments the steps of heating adding and reacting may each independently be carried out at a temperature of from about 50 C. to about 125 C. In certain embodiment the process may further include the step of cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. after the step of reacting. In some embodiments about. 1.0 to about 2.0 molar equivalents of the propyl sulfonate or propyl halide may be added and the step of adding in particular embodiments may be carried out for up to about 2 hours. In still other embodiments the process may include the step of recovering the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole and in some embodiments recovering may include one or more steps selected from filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a. precipitate and drying a precipitate.

Embodiments of the invention further include a process for preparing chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole including the steps of heating a solution comprising 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole adding a propyl halide or a propyl sulfonate to the heated solution slowly over from about 0.5 hours to about 2 hours to form a reaction mixture reacting the reaction mixture and recovering the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole.

In some embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least greater than about 97 chirally pure. In other embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least greater than about 99 chirally pure and in certain embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is at least about 99.9 chirally pure.

The chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole of various embodiments may be greater than about. 99 . In some embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be greater than about 99.9 and in particular embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is greater than about 99.99 .

In some embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In other embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole is 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In certain embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be a mixture of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N 6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In some such embodiments the mixture may be a racemic mixture. In other such embodiments the mixture may be a ratio of greater than about 1 4 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole to about 4 1 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole.

In particular embodiments the steps of heating reacting and cooling each independently may include stirring. In other embodiments the step of recovering may include cooling the mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. and in still other embodiments the step of recovering may include stirring the reaction mixture for at least about 2 hours. In yet other embodiments the step of recovering may further include one or more steps selected from filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate. In various embodiments the steps of heating adding and reacting may each independently be carried out at a temperature of from about 50 C. to about 125 C. and in certain embodiments the step of reacting may include stirring the reaction mixture for up to about 12 hours at from about 50 C. to about 125 C.

Some embodiments of the invention include a chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole prepared by a process including the steps of heating a solution comprising 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole adding a propyl halide or a propyl sulfonate to the heated solution slowly over from about 0.5 hours to about 2 hours to form a reaction mixture reacting the reaction mixture and recovering the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole.

In some embodiments the propyl sulfonate is selected from n propyl tosylate n propyl methoxysulfonate and combinations thereof and in other embodiments the propyl halide is selected from n propyl bromide n propyl chloride n propyl fluoride n propyl iodide and combinations thereof.

In various embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may at least greater than about 97 chirally pure. In some embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be at least greater than about 99 chirally pure and in other embodiments the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is at least about 99.9 chirally pure.

In various other embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be greater than about 99 . In some embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be greater than about 99.9 and in other embodiments the chemical purity of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole is greater than about 99.99 .

In some embodiments the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be a mixture of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. In certain embodiments the mixture may be a racemic mixture. In other embodiments the mixture may be a ratio of greater than about 4 1 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole.

The organic solvent of various embodiments may be selected from a. organic solvent and an organic solvent is mixed with water and the organic solvent of some embodiments may be selected from ethanol 1 propanol n butanol dihydrofuran dimethylformamide dimethyl dimethylacetamide hexamethylphosphoric triamide or mixtures or hydrates thereof.

In particular embodiments the steps of heating reacting and cooling each independently may include stirring and in some embodiments the steps of heating adding and reacting are each independently carried out at a temperature of from about 50 C. to about 125 C. In other embodiments the process may further include cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. after the step of reacting and in still other embodiments the step of adding is carried out for up to about 2 hours. In certain embodiments the step of recovering may include one or more steps selected from filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate. In various embodiments about 1.0 to about 2.0 molar equivalents of the propyl sulfonate or. propyl halide may be added.

Yet other embodiments of the invention include a process for preparing chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole including the steps of dissolving entantiomerically enriched 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in an organic solvent to form a solution heating the solution to from about 50 C. to about 125 C. adding an acid to the solution to form a reaction mixture and recovering the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole.

In some embodiments about 1 molar equivalent to about 4 molar equivalents of the acid may be added. In other embodiments recovering may include one or more steps including cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. stirring the reaction mixture for at least about 2 hours filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate.

Further embodiments of the invention include a chirally pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole prepared by such. a process.

Still other embodiments of the invention include a process for preparing chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole including the steps of dissolving entantiomerically enriched 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in an organic solvent to form a solution heating the solution to from about 50 C. to about 125 C. adding an achiral salt to the solution to form a reaction mixture and recovering the chirally purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole.

In some embodiments about 1 molar equivalent to about 4 molar equivalents of the achiral salt is added. In other embodiments the step of recovering may include one or more steps selected from cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature of about 25 C. stirring the reaction mixture for at least about 2 hours filtering the mixture to isolate a precipitate washing a precipitate and drying a precipitate.

Further embodiments of the invention include a chirally pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole prepared by a such a process.

Still further embodiments of the invention include a process for preparing a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride comprising dissolving a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole salt in an organic solvent to form a solution cooling the solution to a. temperature of from about. 0 C. to about 5 C. adding concentrated HCl and an organic solvent to the cooled solution and stirring the solution at a temperature of about 0 C. to about 5 C.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include. plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods are now described. All publications and references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Optional or optionally may be taken to mean that the subsequently described structure event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. Administering a composition may be accomplished by oral administration injection infusion absorption or by any method in combination with other known techniques. Such combination techniques include heating radiation and ultrasound.

The term target as used herein refers to the material for which either deactivation rupture disruption or destruction or preservation maintenance restoration or improvement of function or state is desired. For example diseased cells pathogens or infectious material may be considered undesirable material in a diseased subject and may be a target for therapy.

Generally speaking the term tissue refers to any aggregation of similarly specialized cells which are united in the performance of a particular function.

The term improves is used to convey that the present invention changes either the appearance form characteristics and or physical attributes of the tissue to which it is being provided applied or administered. Improves may also refer to the overall physical state of an individual to whom an active agent has been administered. For example the overall physical state of an individual may improve if one or more symptoms of a neurodegenerative disorder are alleviated by administration of an active agent.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate or prevent an unwanted condition or disease of a patient.

The terms therapeutically effective amount or therapeutic dose as used herein are interchangeable and may refer to the amount of an active agent or pharmaceutical compound or composition that elicits a biological or medicinal response in a tissue system animal individual or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A biological or medicinal response may include for example one or more of the following 1 preventing a disease condition or disorder in an individual that may be predisposed to the disease condition or disorder but does not yet experience or display pathology or symptoms of the disease condition or disorder 2 inhibiting a disease condition or disorder in an individual that is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptoms of the disease condition or disorder or arresting further development of the pathology and or symptoms of the disease condition or disorder and 3 ameliorating a disease condition or disorder in an individual that is experiencing or exhibiting the pathology or symptoms of the disease condition or disorder or reversing the pathology and or symptoms experienced or exhibited by the individual.

As used herein the term neuroprotectant refers to any agent that may prevent ameliorate or slow the progression of neuronal degeneration and or neuronal cell death.

The term treating may be taken to mean prophylaxis of a specific disorder disease or condition alleviation of the symptoms associated with a specific disorder disease or condition and or prevention of the symptoms associated with a specific disorder disease or condition.

The term patient generally refers to any living organism to which to compounds described herein are administered and may include but is not limited to any non human mammal primate or human. Such patients may or my not be exhibiting the signs symptoms or pathology of the particular diseased state.

As used herein the terms enantiomers stereoisomers and optical isomers may be used interchangeably and refer to molecules which contain an asymmetric or chiral center and are mirror images of one another. Further the terms enantiomers stereoisomers or optical isomers describe a molecule which in a given configuration cannot be superimposed on its mirror image.

As used herein the terms optically pure or entantiomerically pure may be taken to indicate that a composition contains at least 99.95 of a single optical isomer of a compound. The term entantiomerically enriched may be taken to indicate that at least 51 of a composition is a single optical isomer or enantiomer. The term entantiomeric enrichment as used herein refers to an increase in the amount of one entantiomer as compared to the other. A racemic mixture is a mixture of equal amounts of 6R and 6S enantiomers of a chiral molecule.

Throughout this disclosure the word pramipexole will refer to 6S enantiomer of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole unless otherwise specified.

The term trituration may be taken to indicate a method of solidifying a chemical compound. Trituration involves agitating the compound by stirring beating or a method of the like until the chemical compound forms a crystalline solid or precipitate. This solid may act to seed the remaining chemical compound in solution causing it to precipitate or crystallize from solution.

The term pharmaceutical composition shall mean a composition including at least one active ingredient whereby the composition is amenable to investigation for a specified efficacious outcome in a mammal for example without limitation a human . Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand and appreciate the techniques appropriate for determining whether an active ingredient has a desired efficacious outcome based upon the needs of the artisan. A pharmaceutical composition may for example contain 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine as the active ingredient. Alternatively a pharmaceutical composition may contain 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine as the active ingredient.

For the purposes of this disclosure a salt is any acid addition salt preferably a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt including but not limited to halogenic acid salts such as hydrobromic hydrochloric hydrofluoric and hydroiodic acid salt an inorganic acid salt such as for example nitric perchloric sulfuric and phosphoric acid salt an organic acid salt. such as for example sulfonic acid salts methanesulfonic trifluoromethan sulfonic ethanesulfonic benzenesulfonic or p toluenesulfonic acetic malic fumaric succinic citric benzoic gluconic lactic mandelic mucic pamoic pantothenic oxalic and maleic acid salts and an amino acid salt such as aspartic or glutamic acid salt. The acid addition salt may be a mono or di acid addition salt such as a di hydrohalogenic di sulfuric di phosphoric or di organic acid salt. In all cases the acid addition salt is used as an achiral reagent which is not selected on the basis of any expected or known preference for interaction with or precipitation of a specific optical isomer of the products of this disclosure.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salt is meant to indicate those salts which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact. with the tissues of a patient without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known. in the art. For example Berge et al. 1977 J. Pharm. Sciences Vol 6. 1 19 describes pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail.

Embodiments of the invention described herein are generally directed to processes for the production of an entantiomerically and or chemically pure compound. More specifically embodiments of the invention are directed to production of an entantiomerically and or chemically pure compound using a trituration step where one enantiomer of an entantiomeric mixture of R and S stereoisomers of a compound is precipitated out of solution and can be isolated by for example simple filtering or other means for separating a solid or crystalline compound from a solution.

For example embodiments of the invention include a method for preparation of an entantiomerically and chemically pure compound using an one pot bi molecular nucleophilic substitution S2 reaction synthesis method as illustrated in the reaction scheme provided in . In a 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 1 is reacted with an alkyl sulfonate 11 or a alkyl halide 12 exemplified by n propyl sulfonate or propyl halide to generate an aminoalkyl containing compound of a 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 2 and a sulfonate or halide salt. In a trituration step one enantiomer of the 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine for example R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 3 is precipitated based on insolubility of the enantiomers in the achiral halide or sulfonate salts produced as a result of the reaction and can be isolated. The other enantiomer remains in solution.

In another exemplary embodiment illustrated in chirally pure compounds such as 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 3 may be prepared from a mixture of R and S enantiomers of a compound such as for example 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 4 and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 5 . In this process trituration may result from the addition of an organic solvent and an achiral salt or acid to the mixture which may cause the formation of an acid addition salt of one enantiomer. The salt 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine 3 precipitates out of the solution based on. insolubility of the enantiomers in the resulting solution while the other enantiomer remains in solution. The precipitated crystalline enantiomer may then be isolated.

The reaction illustrated in is not limited to a particular 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine. For example the 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine may be any 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole diamine of formula 1 

The reaction illustrated in is not limited by the type of alkyl halide or alkyl sulfonate utilized in the reaction. For example the alkyl sulfonates may be any alkyl sulfonate of formula 11 

Advantages of embodiments such as those described above may include for example 1 the use of simple reagents for the synthesis and purification of one enantiomer enantiomeric compounds 2 the surprising improvement of the optical and chemical purity achieved by simple trituration and 3 such processes may be performed as a one pot synthesis and purification reactions. When taken as a whole the processes described above may be simpler safer and more efficient for the production of chirally and chemically pure compounds. Additionally the compounds may be sufficiently chirally and chemically pure. to make such compounds safe an effective for use in pharmaceutical compounds and in the treatment of disease.

While the methods provided above may be used to purify any enantiomeric compound known in the art particular embodiments of the invention are directed to the production and optical purification of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole and in particular 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. The extremely high chiral and chemical purity of the compound produced by methods of the present invention allow for pharmaceutical compositions that may have a wide individual and daily dose range. For example in some embodiments 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine produced using methods embodied herein may be nearly 100 chirally pure. Such compositions include little to no 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine contamination and may be administered at high doses without the risk of the dopaminergic side effects associated with administration of high dose 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. The compositions of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may therefore be used to treat neurodegenerative diseases or those associated with mitochondrial dysfunction or increased oxidative stress such as for example neurodegenerative dementias neurodegenerative movement disorders and ataxias seizure disorders motor neuron disorders or diseases inflammatory demyelinating disorders and the like in adults and children. The compositions of this disclosure may also be useful in the treatment of other disorders not listed herein and any listing provided in this disclosure is for exemplary purposes only and is non limiting.

Compositions and pharmaceutical compositions comprising entantiomerically pure 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine such as those discussed above are further disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 773 642 entitled Tetrahydrobenzothiazoles and Uses Thereof filed Apr. 10 2007 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 957 157 entitled Compositions and Methods of Using R Pramipexole filed Dec. 14 2007 and U.S. application Ser. No. 11 749 497 entitled Pramipexole Formulations for the Treatment of Parkinson s Disease filed on May 16 2007 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are described in detail herein.

Production of either enantiomer 6R or 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be carried using the bi molecular nucleophilic substitution S2 reaction described above and optical purification based on insolubility of the compound product in achiral reagents. More specifically schematically illustrates an embodiment of the process for the production of entantiomerically and chemically pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole using a bi molecular nucleophilic substitution S2 reaction. In a first step 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole 7 is mixed propyl p toluenesulfonate propyl tosylate and reacted to produce 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 8 and 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid p TSA . Without wishing to be bound by theory the diamine 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole 7 in the reaction scheme of may act as the nucleophile in a nucleophilic attack on the substrate a propyl tosylate and the tosylate group may provide a good leaving group as depicted below 

Some embodiments of methods of the invention may include additional steps. For example in some embodiments p TSA may be removed to form the entantiomerically purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 8 to form a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole free base 9 and hydrochloric acid or fumaric acid may be added to the free base to form 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride 14 or 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole difumerate 15 . In other embodiments 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride 14 may be produced by adding hydrochloric acid to the entantiomerically purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 8 .

While the reaction scheme illustrated in shows the production of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine from 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole in some embodiments the same reaction may be carried out using 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole to produce 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In other embodiments a mixture of 6R and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be used as starting material which may result in a mixture of 6R and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In particular embodiments a mixture of 6R and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole that is entantiomerically enriched for one entantiomer may be used as starting material. Additionally the reaction illustrated in may be carried out is an n propyl halide or a mixture of n propyl halide and n propyl sulfonate.

In some embodiments step one of the process may include the additional steps of heating a diamine to form a solution or melt in a heating step and adding the n propyl halide or n propyl sulfonate slowly over a period of time from for example about 0.5 hours to about 5 hours in an additional step. In other embodiments after the n propyl halide or n propyl sulfonate has been completely added to the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole the reaction may continue under heating for an additional period of time ranging from for example about 1 hour to about 12 hours in a reaction step. In certain embodiments the reaction mixture may be mixed by for example stirring for one or more of the steps above or the reaction mixture may be continually stirred from the heating step to the reaction step. Following the reaction step the reaction mixture may be cooled and the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be isolated and purified.

In embodiments such as those exemplified above the diamine 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be a racemic mixture or entantiomerically enriched for either the S or R enantiomer and the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole produced may be generally optically enriched for the dominant enantiomer. For example 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole may be the dominant enantiomer in mixtures used as a starting material in reaction that produces 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. In various embodiments any R to S ratio of diamine may be used. For example in some embodiments the diamine may be in a racemic mixture i.e. R S is about 50 50 and in such embodiments the yield of the reaction would be expected to be a racemic mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine i.e. about 50 50 . In other embodiments the diamine may be provided in a mixture in which one stereoisomer is in excess over the other for example R S may be about 60 40. In such embodiments the reaction would be expected to yield a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine that is about 60 40 R to S.

The reaction may be carried out in a melt or in a solvent or mixture of solvents and the methods embodied herein are not limited by the type or number of solvents present during the reaction. Any solvent or mixture of solvents known in the art in which the diamine and alkyl halide or alkyl sulfonate can dissolved may be used. For example in various embodiments the solvents may be for example tetrahydrofuran dimethylformamide dimethly sulfoxide dimethylacetamide hexamethylohosphoric triamide glacial acetic acid pyridine dioxan ethanol 1 propanol i propanol n butanol i butanol or combinations thereof for example dioxan water ethanol water tetrahydrofuran water and the like. In embodiments in which a combination of an organic solvent and water are used the organic solvent may have a water content of from about 0 to about 10 volume percent. Preferably the solvents used in the practice of this invention are standard ACS grade solvents. The selection of a solvent may enhance the reaction rate of the S2 reaction. In some embodiments one or more base such as for example sodium hydroxide sodium hydride potassium carbonate sodium acetate potassium tertbutyloxide triethylamine di isoproplyethylamine and the like may be additionally added to the reaction mixture which may further enhance the efficiency of the reaction. When added a base may be present in a concentration of about 0.5 to about 3.0 equivalents based on the solvent. In still other embodiments an alkylating agent may be provided in the melt or solvent. Alkylating agents are well known in the art and may be useful in embodiments of the invention. For example alkylating agents may include but not limited to methyliodide dimethylsulfate ethylbromide diethylsulfate allyliodide benzylbromide 2 phenylethylbromide and methyl p toluenesulfonate.

In general the reaction may be carried out under ambient conditions. However the reaction temperature may vary among embodiments from between about 10 C. to about 50 C. and in particular embodiments from 0 C. to 30 C.

In further embodiments dissolved diamine may be heated and mixed or stirred during the reaction. For example various embodiments include the step of heating a dissolved diamine adding a n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide which may in some embodiments be dissolved in a solvent to form a mixture and stirring the mixture. In other embodiments a base such as di isoproplyethylamine may be added to a solution including a diamine. N propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide may be dissolved in a solvent and then added to the diamine di isoproplyethylamine solution and this reaction mixture may be stirred. The temperature of reactions of such embodiments may generally be below the boiling temperature of the reaction mixture more specifically below the boiling temperature of the solvent s of the reaction mixture. For example in some embodiments an elevated temperature may be lower than about 125 C. In others an elevated temperature may be lower than about 100 C. and in yet another embodiment lower than about 95 C. and in still others less than about 75 C. Therefore the reaction temperature may range from about 50 C. to about 125 C. in some embodiments about 55 C. to about 100 C. in other embodiments about 60 C. to about 95 C. in still other embodiments about 60 C. to about 75 C. in yet other embodiments and in certain embodiments from about 55 C. to about 65 C.

The reaction time may vary within embodiments and may depend upon for example the identities of the reactants the solvent system and the chosen temperature. For example in some embodiments the reaction time may be from about 0.5 hours to about 12 hours. In other embodiments the reaction time may be from about 1 hour to about 8 hours and in certain embodiments the reaction time may be about 4 hours. In general the reaction time is chosen to provide sufficient time for substantially all of the diamine to undergo alkylation. In particular embodiments the reaction time further provides sufficient time for the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole formed to precipitate out of the reaction solution and from visible crystals.

Embodiments of the invention may further include the step of cooling the reaction to a temperature about room temperature 25 C. following the reaction. In such embodiments the reaction may be cooled for any amount of time with or without continued stirring. For example in some embodiments the reaction may be cooled with stirring for about 0.5 to about 4 hours or more and in other embodiments the reaction may be cooled with stirring for about 2 hours.

More specific embodiments may include the steps of dissolving a diamine in dimethylformamide heating the dissolved diamine to an elevated temperature adding the n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in dimethylformamide to form a reaction mixture and stirring the reaction mixture for about 4 hours. In another embodiment the steps may include dissolving a diamine in dimethylformamide heating the dissolved diamine to an elevated temperature slowly adding to the heated dissolved diamine 1.25 molar equivalents of n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in 10 volumes of dimethylformamide and 1.25 molar equivalents of di isoproplyethylamine with stirring the reaction over a period of about 4 hours. In yet another embodiment 1.25 molar equivalents of di isoproplyethylamine may be added to a diamine dissolved in dimethylformamide and the n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in dimethylformamide may be added to this mixture with stirring for about 4 hours.

Following synthesis entantiomerically pure isomers of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be recovered using a trituration step in which the major isomer is isolated as a precipitated crystals while the minor stereoisomer remains in solution. Without wishing to be bound by theory insolubility of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product in achiral reagents such as p TSA may be independent of the R or S enantiomer such that purity of the recovered isomer may depend only on the volume of the reaction solution and starting percentage of the major isomer. Thus in an embodiment such as is described above an entantiomerically pure 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine R S equals 100 0 yield may be produced from a reaction in which diamine is provided in an R to S ratio of 60 40.

An unexpected advantage of the process for preparing 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole described above is the limited solubility of the sulfonate or halide salt of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in polar organic solvents which causes the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product to precipitate once formed thereby purifying the final synthesis product 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole from the reaction mixture. In further embodiments the substitution reaction such as that illustrated in may result in a sufficient achiral salt p TSA concentration to cause the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole to become insoluble. and crystallize in the reaction solution without adding additional agents such as for example additional achiral salts.

The reaction embodied above and described in may provide highly purified 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in a one pot synthesis method. For example in embodiments of the process the chemical purity of the final 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole prepared may be at least 97 98 and up to 100 without additional purification steps and in particular embodiments the chemical purity may be from 99.90 to 100 without any additional purification steps. In still other embodiments the final 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be substantially free of achiral salts such as for example p TSA. For example in some embodiments the achiral salt concentration of the final synthesis product may be less than 3 and in others the achiral salt concentration of the final synthesis product may be less than 1 0.5 0.1 0.01 0.001 and so on. In certain embodiments the achiral salt concentration may be less than 1.5 ppm to less than 25 ppb or less than 0.00015 to less than 0.0000025 . Without wishing to be bound by theory the ability to produce highly chemically pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in a one pot method may demonstrate a significant advancement in the production of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. Moreover such purity may provide pharmaceutical grade 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole more efficiently than previous methods.

In various embodiments the chiral purity for the R enantiomer prepared and purified may be greater than 99.6 about. when a starting material that is entantiomerically enriched for R diamine is used. Similarly in various other embodiments the chiral purity for the S enantiomer produced and purified may be greater than 99.6 when a starting material that is entantiomerically enriched for S diamine is used. In some embodiments the chiral purity for the R enantiomer prepared and purified may be greater than 99.8 about when a starting material that is entantiomerically enriched for. R diamine is used. Similarly in some other embodiments the chiral purity for the S enantiomer produced and purified may be greater than 99.8 when a starting material that is entantiomerically enriched for S diamine is used. In particular embodiments the chiral purity for the R enantiomer prepared and purified may be greater than 99.9 about when a starting material that is entantiomerically enriched for R diamine is used. Similarly in particular other embodiments the chiral purity for the S enantiomer produced and purified may be greater than 99.9 when a starting material that is entantiomerically enriched for S diamine is used.

Not wishing to be bound by theory the solubility of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be the same in the trituration step of the synthesis and purification processes. For example if a synthesis process is carried out with 90 grams of the 6R diamine and 10 grams of the 6S diamine and the solubility of the final 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product is 10 grams for either enantiomer then 80.grams of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine product and 0 grams of the 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine product would precipitate assuming a 100 chemical conversion from the diamine and no change in molecular weight in going to the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product . That is 10 grams of each enantiomer of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be expected to go into solution. This would lead to a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product with a 100 chiral purity for the 6R enantiomer. The opposite ratio of starting materials for the synthesis process 90 grams of the 6S diamine and 10 grams of the 6R diamine may generate a reaction product of 90 grams of the 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 10 grams of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. From this reaction product mixture 80 grams of the 6S enantiomer and 0 grams of the 6R enantiomer of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole would be expected to precipitate leading to a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product with a 100 chiral purity for the 6S enantiomer. Thus the volumes which are used for a reaction may have a large potential effect on the final yield and chiral purity. That is too large a volume will reduce the yield as more of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole enantiomer products will go into solution but. increase the chiral purity and too small a volume will increase the yield as less of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole products will go into solution but reduce the chiral purity .

Other embodiments of the invention are directed to a process for the purification of entantiomerically pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole from a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine including a trituration step. In some embodiments the mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine used in the purification methods may be prepared as described herein above. In other embodiments the mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be obtained using another method or form a commercially available mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine.

In some embodiments the trituration step may include the addition of an achiral salt to a solution containing a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. As described above the addition of an achiral salt to a solution containing a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may cause the enantiomer having a greater concentration to become insoluble and form crystals in the solution. In some embodiments the solution containing a mixture of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be heated to an elevated temperature such as for example about 50 C. to about 125 C. about 55 C. to about 100 C. about 60 C. to about 95 C. or about 60 C. to about 75 C. and an achiral salt may be added to the solution. This solution may than be cooled from the elevated temperature to about room temperature slowly. For example in one embodiment the reaction may be cooled at a rate of about less than 25 C. hour. In another embodiment the reaction may be slowly cooled and the reaction solution may be stirred for at least about an additional 2 hours. The rates of cooling and the time required for the additional stirring may vary with the choice of achiral salt and may be easily appreciated by one skilled in the art.

The crystalline 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine or 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may then be isolated washed and dried and in various embodiments may result in entantiomerically pure 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine or 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine having a chemical purity of at least 97 and in some embodiments 98 to 100 . In such embodiments the achiral salt may be any achiral salt listed hereinabove or any other achiral salt known in the art. Similarly the solvent of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine solution may be any solvent described above in relation to the method for preparing 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. Either 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine or 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be purified using the process of such embodiments. However in certain embodiments 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine may be purified.

In other embodiments entantiomerically enriched 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be triturated from an acid addition solution based on the insolubility of the enantiomers in the achiral reagents. Various embodiments of this method may include the steps of dissolving an entantiomerically enriched 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in a solvent at an elevated temperature such as for example about 50 C. to about 125 C. about 55 C. to about 100 C. about 60 C. to about 95 C. or about 60 C. to about 75 C. adding an acid to the dissolved 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole cooling the reaction to about room temperature 25 C. with stirring stirring the cooled reaction mixture for an extended time at room temperature to allow formation of entantiomerically pure crystals and recovering entantiomerically pure 6R or 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine from the reaction mixture. In other embodiments entantiomerically enriched 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be dissolved in a solvent at an elevated temperature about 0.5 equivalents to about 2.05 equivalents of an acid may be added to the solution and the solution may be cooled to room temperature. The cooled solution may then be stirred for an extended period of time and entantiomerically pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be recovered. In particular embodiments the selected acid may be p toluenesulfonic acid p TSA and the solvent may be ethanol. In other embodiments the temperature of the solution when the acid is added may be lower than about 125 C. lower than about 100 C. or lower than about 75 C. and in certain embodiments the temperature may be from about 65 C. to about 85 C. The cooling may generally occur slowly at for example a rate of about 25 C. per hour and the solution may be stirred for at least about 2 hours after 25 C. temperature has been reached. The times necessary for the reaction may vary with the identities of the reactants the solvent system and with the chosen temperature and may be easily appreciated by one of skill in the art. Reaction volumes may additionally dictate the degree of optical purification and the overall yield of the optically pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. These volumes would be understood and appreciated by one of skill in the art. Examples of specific times temperatures and volumes which enable the practice of this invention are given in the Examples.

The solvent utilized may vary in embodiments and may generally be an organic solvent such as for example acetonitrile acetone ethanol ethyl acetate methyl tert butyl ether methyl ethyl ketone isopropyl acetate isopropyl alcohol and combinations thereof. In a particular embodiment the organic solvent may be ethanol.

The acid of various embodiments may include halogenic acids such as for example hydrobromic hydrochloric hydrofluoric and hydroiodic acid inorganic acids such as for example nitric perchloric sulfuric and phosphoric acid organic acids such as for example sulfonic acids methanesulfonic trifluoromethane sulfonic ethanesulfonic benzenesulfonic or p toluenesulfonic acetic malic fumaric succinic citric benzoic gluconic lactic mandelic mucic pamoic pantothenic oxalic and maleic acid and amino acids such as aspartic or glutamic acid. The acid may be a mono or di acid such as for example a di hydrohalogenic di sulfuric di phosphoric or di organic acid. The acid of embodiments may be used as an achiral reagent which is generally not selected on the basis of any expected or known preference for interaction with or precipitation of a specific optical isomer of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole to be isolated. For example in one embodiment the selected acid may be p toluenesulfonic acid. The amount of acid added may vary and is generally provided at about 1 molar equivalent to about 4 molar equivalents of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole.

Insoluble 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be separated from the reaction solution by any method known in the art. For example in some embodiments the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be collected by simple filtering. There are numerous methods for filtering a solid from a solution and any such method may by useful in embodiments of the invention. In other embodiments insoluble 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be isolated by centrifugation. Again such methods are well known in the art and any such method may be used in various embodiments of the invention. The insoluble crystalline 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may then be washed to remove any contaminating solvent sulfonate or halide salt or soluble enantiomer of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole from the crystals using any method available. For example in one embodiment the precipitated material may be washed in a volatile solvent such as an alcohol or heptane followed by vacuum drying.

The 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole enantiomers prepared using methods above may be purified from a starting 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine mixture that is enriched for one or the other enantiomers. For example in some embodiments the starting mixture may contain at least 55 or greater of either the R or S enantiomer and in others the starting mixture may contain about 70 or greater of either the R or the S enantiomer. In still other embodiments the starting material may contain greater than about 90 of either the R or S enantiomer. In particular embodiments the starting mixture is enriched for 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine.

Without wishing to be bound by theory the relative solubility of the optical isomers of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in the achiral salt or acid solutions allows for chiral and chemical purification that is unexpected by using a relatively easy recovery method via a simple trituration step. The enhanced enrichment resulting from the purification methods described above result in that may reach optical purity. For example in various embodiments the final 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product may be enriched to 99 optical purity or greater 99.5 optical purity or greater 99.8 optical purity or greater and in certain embodiments 99.9 optical purity or greater. In still other embodiments the optical purity of the final 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. may be 99.95 or greater or even 99.99 or greater. In particular embodiments the optical purity may be 100 .

The processes disclosed herein have several advantages. First the processes avoid the use of borane reagents such as sodium borohydride common in the reductive amination schemes used in the prior art which decomposes rapidly to borane and hydrogen upon acidification. Second reductive amination schemes involve the use of a two step procedure in which the amide is formed first followed by a reduction step. The methods of this disclosure are one pot synthesis and purification procedures and therefore provide a safer easier and more economical synthesis. Third there is no loss of chirality during the alkylation processes of the S2 reaction mechanism of this disclosure as opposed to previous synthesis schemes where chiral purity is often reduced or lost altogether during synthesis. Finally the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product of the nucleophilic substitution reaction precipitates from the reaction mixture. This may be especially true for the p TSA salt. form of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. This is an unexpected advantage of the methods of the instant disclosure and provides unique methods for chiral and chemical enrichment or purification of the final 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product.

Additional embodiments of the invention include the conversion of either sulfonate or halide salts of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole or free base 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole into an hydrochloric acid HCl salt as illustrated in . For example in some embodiments solid 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole sulfonate or halide salt 8 may be re dissolved in an alcohol such as ethanol and the mixture may be cooled to between about 0 and about 5 C. with continuous stirring. Concentrated HCl may then be added followed by a solvent such as methyl tert butyl ether MTBE and the mixture may be stirred for about 0.5 to about 3 hours at between about 0 and about 5 C. until or until insoluble 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride crystals 10 have formed. The reaction mixture may then be filtered washed in an inert solvent such as MTBE alcohol solution and dried under vacuum. A detailed example of this synthesis may be found in Example 12.

In another embodiment of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole sulfonate or halide salts 8 may be converted to an HCl salt using a concentrated solution of HCl and isopropyl acetate IPAC . In such embodiments 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole sulfonate or halide salt 8 may be dissolved in IPAC and cooled to about 15 C. HCl gas may then be bubbled into the slurry for from about 0.5 hours to 3 hours to produce 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride 10 after which the mixture may be filtered washed with an inert solvent such as for example IPAC and dried under vacuum at room temperature. A detailed example of this synthesis may be found in Example 13.

The sulfonate or halide salts of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may alternatively be converted to the free base form of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole as illustrated in . For example in one embodiment a p TSA 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole salt 8 may be dissolved in dichloromethane DCM and water. The solution may then by brought to a pH of about 11 12 using NaOH and resulting in the formation of two phases. The aqueous phase contains 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole that may be extracted with DCM dried over magnesium sulfate. MgSO filtered over Celite and concentrated. The concentrated residue may be re dissolved in MTBE and stirred as a slurry for several hours. The solids may then be filtered washed. with MTBE and dried under vacuum at a temperature of about 35 C. The final product is 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole free base 9 . A detailed example of this synthesis may be found in Example 14.

In another embodiment the sulfonate or halide salts of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 8 may be converted to the free base form of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 9 by dissolving p TSA salt of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole in water and cooling the solution to a. temperature of about 10 C. NaOH may be added to the solution to increase the pH the solution may be diluted and extracted several times in DCM. The combined organic phases are then washed dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to dryness. A detailed example of this synthesis may be found in Example 15.

In some embodiments the free base form of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be converted to 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride 9 by bubbling HCl gas into a cooled solution of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole free base in IPAC. Alternatively in other embodiments the free base form of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 9 may be converted to 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole dihydrochloride 10 by mixing with concentrated HCl at room temperature overnight. Detailed examples of such schemes may be found in Examples 16 and 17 respectively. In still other embodiments the free base form of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole 9 may be converted to 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole fumarate 11 by the addition of about 1 to about 4 molar equivalents of fumaric acid.

The methods of the present disclosure require little time utilize readily available starting materials and do not involve the use of hazardous or difficult to handle reagents. Each of the several steps of the methods disclosed as part of the present invention are high yielding and afford products with very high chemical and chiral purity. Further the processes disclosed herein may be scaled for industrial scale manufacturing. As such entantiomerically pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole may be manufactured in batches of greater than 1 kg or more 10 kg or more or even 25 kg or more as may be required to meet the needs of a large scale pharmaceutical use.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to a pure enantiomer of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole either 6R or 6S produced by processes disclosed herein. Thus an embodiment of the invention is a chirally pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole salt prepared by a process which comprises dissolving 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole in an organic solvent reacting the 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole with a n propyl sulfonate or a n propyl halide under conditions sufficient to generate the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole salt and recovering the chirally pure 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole salt.

The present invention should not be considered limited to the particular embodiments described above but rather should be understood to cover all aspects of the invention as fairly set out in the attached claims. Various modifications equivalent processes as well as numerous structures to which the present invention may be applicable will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present invention is directed upon review of the present specification. The claims are intended to cover such modifications and devices. The invention and embodiments thereof illustrating the method and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole was prepared using the S2 substitution reaction described above. Reactions were carried out under exemplary reactions conditions A B and C described below. Results of example syntheses using each of the several conditions which are embodiments of the present disclosure are listed in Table 1. Several example syntheses of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole using conditions A B and C of the present disclosure are detailed in Examples 1 5 the results are presented in Table 1.

A diamine dissolved in an organic solvent was heated to a reaction temperature of less than about 125 C. with continuous stirring. A solution of n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in di isoproplyethylamine and an organic solvent was added to the dissolved heated diamine slowly over a period of up to several hours to form a mixture and this reaction mixture was stirred at the reaction temperature for an additional period of time of up to about 4 hours.

B diamine dissolved in an organic solvent was heated to a reaction temperature of less than about 125 C. with continuous stirring. A solution of n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in dimethylformamide was added slowly over a period of up to several hours to form a reaction mixture and this reaction mixture was stirred at the reaction temperature for an additional amount of time up to about 4 hours.

C diamine was dissolved in dimethylformamide and heated to less than about 125 C. with continuous stirring. A solution of n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in dimethylformamide and di isopropylethylamine was added to the heated diamine slowly over a period of up to several hours to form a reaction mixture. This reaction mixture was then stirred at the reaction temperature for up to about 4 hours.

Alternatively di isoproplyethylamine may be added to the heated diamine dissolved in an organic solvent prior to the addition of a solution including n propyl sulfonate or n propyl halide dissolved in dimethylformamide. As above the n propyl sulfonate or propyl halide dimethlyformamide solution may be added slowly for a time period up to several hours with continuous stirring and the reaction mixture formed may be stirred at the reaction temperature for up to about 4 hours.

These products were analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC for chemical and chiral purity. H NMR and C NMR was also used to confirm the structure of the product is 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole.

A 2.0 liter three necked. flask was equipped with an overhead stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 500 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 45 grams of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine followed by 750 ml of n propanol. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to 95 C. over 15 minutes generating a clear solution. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 74 grams propyl tosylate and 60 ml diisopropylethyleamine in 250 ml n propanol. This solution was added dropwise to the 2.0 liter flask with continuous stirring over a period of 4 hours. The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 8 hours at 95 C. after which the solution was brought to room temperature and stirring was continued for an additional 4 hours.

The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed three times using 100 ml reagent grade alcohol each time. The alcohol washed precipitated cake was then washed with 100 ml heptane and dried under high vacuum for 2 hours.

The final weight of the dried product was 53.2 grams representing a 52.2 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 98.2 and the chiral purity as greater than 99.5 . H NMR and C NMR were used to confirm the structure.

A 250 ml three necked flask was equipped with a magnetic stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 50 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 5 grams of 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 45 ml of n propanol. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 95 C. over 15 minutes generating a clear solution. The addition funnel. was charged with a solution of 8.2 grams propyl tosylate and 6.7 ml diisopropylethyleamine in 16 ml n propanol. This solution was added dropwise to the 250 ml flask with continuous stirring over a period of 2 hours. The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 6 hours at 95 C. after which the solution was brought to room temperature and stirring was continued for an additional 4 hours.

The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed three times using 10 ml reagent grade alcohol each time. The alcohol washed precipitated cake was then washed with 10 ml heptane and dried under high vacuum for 2 hours.

The final weight of the dried product was 4.99 grams representing a 44.2 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 98.0 and the chiral purity as greater than 99.6 . H NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 250 ml three necked flask was equipped with a magnetic stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 100 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 5 grams of racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 80 ml of n propanol. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 95 C. over 15 minutes generating a clear solution. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 10.1 grams propyl tosylate and 8.2 ml diisopropylethyleamine in 28 ml n propanol. This solution was added dropwise to the 250 ml flask with continuous stirring over a period of 2 hours. The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 6 hours at 95 C. after which the solution was brought to room temperature and stirring was continued for an additional 6 hours.

The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed two times using 25 ml reagent grade alcohol each time. The alcohol washed precipitated cake was then washed with 25 ml heptane and dried under high vacuum for 1 hour.

The final weight of the dried product was 5.12 grams representing a 45 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 97.1 and the chiral purity showed a 1 1 mixture of the 6R and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. H NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 250 ml three necked flask was equipped with a magnetic stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 50 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 5 grams of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 50 ml of DMF. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 75 C. 6.3 grams propyl tosylate was added dropwise to the 250 ml flask with continuous stirring over a period of 6 hours. Progress of the reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 12 hours at room temperature. The solution was diluted with 20 ml. MTBE and stirred for an additional hour. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 20 ml MTBE followed by 2 washes of 20 ml each ethanol. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The final weight of the dried product was 4.6 grams representing a 40 . yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine as 94.9 and the chiral purity as greater than 99.6 . H NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 250 ml three necked flask was equipped with a magnetic stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 50 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 10 grams of 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 100 ml of DMF. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 75 C. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 16.4 grams propyl tosylate in 20 ml DMF. This solution was added dropwise to the 250 ml flask with continuous stirring over a period of 1.5 hours. Progress of the reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 12 hours at 75 C. after which the solution was brought to room temperature and stirring was continued for an additional 7 hours. The solution was diluted with 100 ml MTBE and stirred for an additional hour. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 100 ml MTBE followed by 2 washes of 50 ml each ethanol and a wash with 50 ml heptane. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The final weight of the dried product was 9.81 grams representing a 43.3 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine as 99.4 and the chiral purity as greater than 99.8 . H NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 250 ml three necked flask was equipped with a magnetic stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 50 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 5 grams of racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 50 ml of DMF. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 75 C. 9.5 grams was added to the 250 ml flask with continuous stirring. Progress of the reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 4 hours at 75 C. after which the solution was brought to room temperature and stirring was continued for an additional 12 hours. The solution was diluted with 20 ml MTBE and stirred for an additional hour. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 50 ml MTBE followed by 3 washes of 25 ml each ethanol and the precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The final weight of the dried product was 2.9 grams representing a 25.6 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 98.3 and the chiral purity showed a 1 1 mixture of the 6R and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. H NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 12 L three necked flask was equipped with an overhead stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a condenser and a 500 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 250 grams of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 2 L of dimethyl formamide DMF . Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 65 C. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 386.6 grams propyl tosylate and 322 ml diisopropylethyleamine in 500 ml DMF. This solution was added to the 12 L flask dropwise over a period of 2.0 hours. The reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued at 65 C. for an additional 5 hours after which the solution was gradually cooled to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solution was diluted with 2 L MTBE and stirred for an additional 0.5 hours. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 500 ml MTBE followed by 3 washes of 500 ml each reagent alcohol. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The final weight of the dried product was 317.6 grams representing a 56 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 98.4 and the chiral purity as greater than 99.8 . H NMR and C NMR was used to confirm the structure H NMR. 300 MHz DMSO d6 8.5 br.s 2H 7.5 d 2H 71.2 d 1H 6.8 s 2H 3.4 m 1H 2.95 m 3H 2.6 m 2H merged with DMSO peak 2.3 s 3H 2.15 m 1H 1.8 m 1H 1.55 m 2H 0.9 t 3H C NMR 300 MHz DMSO d6 167.0 145.5 144.6 138.4 128.6 125.8 110.7 53.9 46.5 25.8 25.6 24.5 21.2 19.6 11.3.

A 500 ml three necked flask was equipped with an overhead stirrer a temperature probe a heating. mantle a claisen joint a condenser and a 100 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 20 grams of 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 180 ml of dimethyl formamide DMF . Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 65 C. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 35.5 grams propyl tosylate and 32.8 ml diisopropylethylamine in 40 ml DMF. This solution was added to the 500 ml flask dropwise over a period of 2.0 hours. The reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued at 65 C. for an additional 10 hours after which the solution was gradually cooled to room temperature and stirred for 6 hours. The solution was diluted with 220 ml MTBE and stirred for an additional 0.5 hours. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 50 ml MTBE followed by 3 washes of 50 ml each reagent alcohol and a wash with 75 ml of heptane. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The final weight of the dried product was 25.4 grams representing a 56 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 99.4 and the chiral purity as greater than 99.7 . H NMR and C NMR was used to confirm the structure H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d6 8.5 br.s 2H 7.5 d 2H 71.2 d 1H 6.8 s 2H 3.4 m 1H 2.95 m 3H 2.6 m 2H merged with DMSO peak 2.3 s 3H 2.15 m 1H 1.8 m 1H 1.55 m 2H 0.9 t 3H .

A 250 ml three necked flask was equipped with a magnetic stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a reflux condenser and a 50 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with S grams of racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 45 ml of DMF. Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 65 C. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 8.86 grams propyl tosylate and 8.2 ml of diisopropylethylamine in 10 ml DMF. This solution was added dropwise to the 250 ml flask with continuous stirring over a period of 2 hours. Progress of the reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued with stirring for an additional 6 hours at 65 C. after which the solution. was brought to room temperature. The solution was diluted with 70 ml MTBE and stirred for an additional hour. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 15 ml MTBE followed by 2 washes of 15 ml each ethanol and a wash with 15 ml heptane. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The final weight of the dried product was 6.02 grams representing a 53.1 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chemical purity of the racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole as 99.2 and the chiral purity showed a 1 1 mixture of the 6R and 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. H NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 1000 ml three necked flask was equipped with an overhead stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a condenser and a 250 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 25 grams of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 200 ml of dimethyl formamide DMF . Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 75 C. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 39.5 grams propyl tosylate and 32.5 ml diisopropylethyleamine in 50 ml DMF. This solution was added to the 1000 ml flask dropwise over a period of 1.0 hours. The reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued at 75 C. for an additional. 5 hours after which the solution was gradually cooled to room temperature and stirred overnight. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 2 washes with 100 ml MTBE followed by 3 washes of 75 ml each reagent alcohol and one wash with 125 ml of heptane. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The reaction resulted in a 47 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chiral purity as 99.8 . H NMR and C NMR was used to confirm the structure.

A 1000 ml three necked flask was equipped with an overhead stirrer a temperature probe a heating mantle a claisen joint a condenser and a 250 ml addition funnel. The flask was charged with 25 grams of 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole followed by 200 ml of dimethyl formamide DMF . Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of 75 C. The addition funnel was charged with a solution of 39.5 grams propyl tosylate and 32.5 ml diisopropylethyleamine in 50 ml DMF. This solution was added to the 1000 ml flask dropwise over a period of 2.0 hours. The reaction was monitored by analysis on HPLC.

The reaction was continued at 65 C. for an additional 5 hours after which the solution was gradually cooled to room temperature and stirred overnight. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with twice with 10 ml MTBE followed by 3 washes of 75 ml each reagent alcohol and one wash with 125 ml of heptane. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum.

The reaction resulted in a 47 yield. HPLC was used to determine the chiral purity as 99.8 . H NMR and C NMR was used to confirm the structure.

Various ratios of entantiomerically enriched mixtures of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole and 6S 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole having 6R to 6S ratios of 80 20 20 80 85 15 15 85 90 10 10 90 95 5 and 5 95 were used to prepare 6R or 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine based on the enriched species in the starting material. The following reaction conditions were used 

F 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole mixtures were dissolved in 10 volumes of DMF and 1.25 equivalents of propyl tosylate at 65 67 C. The reaction is then cooled to room temperature insoluble species were collected and washed with 8 volumes of MTBE.

G 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole mixtures were dissolved in 18 volumes of DMF and 1.25 equivalents of propyl tosylate at 65 67 C. The reaction is then cooled to room temperature insoluble. species were collected and washed with 8 volumes of MTBE.

H 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole mixtures were dissolved in 10 volumes of DMF and 1.25 equivalents of propyl tosylate at 65 67 C. The reaction is then cooled to room. temperature and insoluble species were collected. No washing step was performed.

The data in Table 2 demonstrates that both enantiomers of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. have similar if not the same solubility. Further the data shows that the synthesis is equally efficient for either enantiomer of 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole. These data also demonstrate that the enantiomers behave independently of one another in that the solubility of one enantiomer appears to be unaffected by the concentration in solution of the other. For example the various synthesis reactions carried out using condition F all have chemical yields of about 50 independent of the percentage of predominant diamine enantiomer of the starting material. When the volume of the organic solvent used in the synthesis reaction is increased the chemical yield is reduced but the chiral yield is increased. This is apparent by comparison of the reaction carried out in conditions F and G where an 85 15 ratio of 6R 6S diamine produced a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product having an 86.8 chiral purity for the 6R enantiomer when the reaction used 10 volumes of the organic solvent and a 99.8 chiral purity for the 6R enantiomer when the reaction used 18 volumes of the organic solvent. Note also that the chemical yield was reduced in the reaction using a larger volume of organic solvent 43 yield in condition F and 36 yield in condition G .

In Table 3 condition H is the same as condition F except that the recovery step does not incorporate dilution in MTBE. The MTBE is observed to increase 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole recovery yield from the synthesis reaction but may reduce the overall chiral purity. This is born out by a comparison of the results for trials carried out in an 85 15 ratio of 6R 6S diamine which produced a 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product having a 86.8 chiral purity for the 6R enantiomer when the reaction included the MTBE organic solvent and a 99.9 chiral purity for the 6R enantiomer when the reaction did not include the MTBE organic solvent. The chemical yield was reduced by exclusion of the MTBE dilution in the recovery step a 43 yield in condition C as opposed to a 39 yield in condition E.

 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine p TSA salt 50 grams 0.13 mol was taken into 150 ml absolute ethanol and cooled to between 0 and 5 C. with continuous stirring. Concentrated HCl 33 ml was slowly added to the reaction while maintaining the temperature at between 0 and 5 C. and the mixture was stirred for an additional 15 minutes. MTBE 200 ml was added to the mixture and stirring was continued for an additional 1.5 hours at temperature. The reaction mixture was then filtered washed twice with an MTBE ethanol solution 2 1 2 50 ml wash volumes and dried under vacuum at 30 C. overnight. The final product was 34 grams of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine dihydrochloride indicative of 92 yield and a 97.3 chemical purity as determined by HPLC.

 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine p TSA salt 10 grams 0.026 mol was dissolved in 200 ml IPAC and cooled to 15 C. with continuous stirring. HCl gas was bubbled into the slurry for 1 hour. The mixture was then filtered washed with IPAC and dried overnight under vacuum at room temperature. The final product was 6.8 grams of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine dihydrochloride indicative of 92 yield and a 97 chemical purity as determined by HPLC.

 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine p TSA salt 25 grams 0.065 mol was dissolved in 200 ml DCM and mixed into a slurry. 10 ml of water was added and the mixture was basified with 12 ml of 6N NaOH to a pH of 11 12. The two phases were split and the aqueous was extracted with 200 ml of DCM. The combined organic phases were dried over MgSO filtered over Celite and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 100 ml MTBE and slurried for several hours. The solids were then filtered washed with MTBE and dried under vacuum at 35 C. The final product was 9.1 grams of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine dihydrochloride indicative a of 66 yield and a 98 chemical purity as determined by HPLC.

Freebase formation was performed on a 200 gram scale. A 5 L three necked round bottomed flask equipped with an over head stirrer thermometer and addition funnel was charged with 200g 0.522 mol of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine p TSA salt and 1 L of water. The mixture was stirred and cooled to 10 C. The slurry was basified to a pH of about 11 12 by the slow addition of 200 ml of 6 N NaOH over a period of 15 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with 500 ml of brine sodium chloride dissolved in water and extracted with 3 1 L of dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed with 1.0 L of brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to dryness. The residue was triturated with 1 L of 1 1 IPAC Heptane the resulting slurry was stirred for 1 hour filtered and the filter cake was washed with 2 250 ml of 1 1 mixture of IPAC Heptane. The filter cake was collected and dried at 40 C. under high vacuum for 24 hours to give 94.1 grams 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine 85.5 as a white solid. The chemical purity was 100 AUC as tested by HPLC and the chiral purity was 100 AUC as tested by HPLC. H NMR and C NMR was used to confirm the structure H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 6 6.6 s 2H 2.8 m 2H 2.5 m 2H merged with DMSO peak 2.2 m 1H 1.9 m 1H 1.5 1.3 m 4H 0.85 t 3H C NMR 300 MHz DMSO d6 166.2 144.8 113.6 54.2 49.1 30.0 29.6 25.2 23.5 12.3.

The freebase of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine 4.8 grams 0.022 mol was dissolved in 200 ml of IPAC and cooled to 15 C. HCl gas was bubbled into the slurry for 1 hour. The mixture was then filtered washed with IPAC and dried under vacuum at room temperature overnight. The final product was 6.4 grams of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine dihydrochloride indicative of 100 yield and a 97 chemical purity as determined by HPLC.

The freebase of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine 50 grams 0.13 mol was dissolved in 500 ml of IPAC. Under continuous stirring the mixture was slowly charged with 78 ml of concentrated HCl at a temperature of 25 C. The mixture was stirred overnight at ambient conditions 25 C. filtered and dried under vacuum at 40 C. The final product was 68 grams of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine dihydrochloride indicative of 95 yield.

2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole entantioenriched for the 6R enantiomer 300 mg was dissolved in 10 ml of the chosen solvent at 75 C. Complete dissolution was observed in all samples. Acid addition was made at 1.05 molar equivalents for the p TSA solvent is ethanol 2.97 ml of 0.5 M acid and MSA solvent is acetonitrile 1.49 ml of 1.0 M acid and 2.05 molar equivalents for the fumaric solvent is acetonitrile 5.84 ml of 0.5 M acid and phosphoric solvent is acetonitrile 2.90 ml of 1.0 M acid . The reaction mixtures were cooled to room temperature at a rate of 25 C. hour and stirred at room temperature for an additional 19 hours.

The products of purification processes were then analyzed by HPLC for chemical and chiral purity. shows an exemplary HPLC trace starting material. In a large 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine peak can be observed at about 6 minutes and a much smaller 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine peak can be seen at about 9 minutes. The area of these peaks provides an estimated composition for the mixture which is shown in the table below the trace and shows the mixture as containing about 90.2 6R and 8.8 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. shows an exemplary trace of the 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole product following purification. In a large 6R 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole peak is observed at about 6 minutes and no 6S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 6 propylamino benzothiazole peak is observed. It is additionally of note that several other minor peaks are also reduced or eliminated in the product trace and the table below the trace indicates that 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine makes up 99.9 of the product solution which is within the limits of analytical detectability. Results for each exemplary reaction are provided in Table 3 

The solids obtained by this trituration step were isolated by filtration and dried under high vacuum at room temperature. These products were analyzed by HPLC H NMR thermal gravimetric analysis differential scanning calorimetry X ray powder diffraction XPRD Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and moister sorption analysis. The XPRD patterns showed that the p TSA MSA and fumarate salt forms of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine were crystalline while the phosphate salt form of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine was amorphous.

A 72 L unjacketed reactor was charged with racemic 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole 4.5 kg 26.6 mol and 58.5 L water and heated as a suspension to a temperature of about 60 C. to 650 C. Resolution of the enantiomers was achieved by addition of one equivalent of D Tartaric acid 3991 grams 26.6 mol in 4.5 L of water after which the resulting solution was heated to a temperature of about 70 C. to 75 C. and maintained at this temperature for about 1 hour. The mixture was allowed to cool to a temperature of about 20 C. to 25 C. and stirred for an additional 15 hours after which the mixture was filtered and the solids were washed 3 with water 6.3 L each wash .

The wet solids which contain the 6R enantiomer of the diamine were charged to the reactor followed by 54 L of water and the mixture was heated to a temperature of about 70 C. to 75 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to cool to a temperature of about 20 C. to 25 C. and stirred for 17 hours. The mixture was then filtered and the solids were washed 2 with water 4.5 L each wash . The wet solids were transferred to a jacketed reactor and the reactor was charged with 8.1 L of water. The mixture was cooled to a temperature of about 0 C. to 5 C. and cautiously charged with concentrated 1.6 L of HCl followed by 1.2 L of 50 NaOH to achieve a pH of about 9 10. During the addition the temperature was maintained at about 0 C. to 5 C. and stirred for an additional hour at temperature. The resulting mixture was then filtered and the solids were washed 2 with cold 0 C. to 5 C. water 1.1 L each wash . The solids were transferred to a jacketed reactor and were reslurried once more with 4.5 L of water at 0 C. to 5 C. The solids were filtered and dried under warm air 40 C. to 45 C. to give 1940 grams of the product 6R diamine as a white solid with an 86 yield for the 6R enantiomer.

The mother liquors of the initial resolution step which contain the 6S enantiomer of the diamine were concentrated to afford diamine with a 95.5 yield for the 6S enantiomer. Results of reactions performed using 1000 4500 and 4100 grams of starting material are provided in Table 4

A 100 L glass jacketed reactor was charged with 1 propanol 2.098 kg 34.9 mol triethylamine 4.585 kg 45.3 mol 1.3 equivalents and DCM 20.1 L . The mixture was cooled to a temperature of about 5 C. to 15 C. and cautiously charged with a solution of p toluenesulfonyl chloride 6 kg 31.47 mol 0.9 equivalents in DCM 10.5 L over 30 minutes. Once the addition was complete the mixture was warmed to a temperature of about 18 C. to 22 C. and stirred for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was assayed by H NMR in CDCl and deemed complete. HCl 6 N 2.98 L was cautiously charged while maintaining the temperature below 25 C. The aqueous phase was removed and the organic phase was washed 2 with water 21 L. each wash dried with MgSO and filtered over Celite . The filtered solids were then washed with DCM 4 L and concentrated to a residue. The residue was dissolved in heptane and concentrated again to afford a final propyl tosylate product 6.385 kg 95 yield .

A 72 liter unjacketed reactor was charged with 1.84 kg 10.87 mol of 6R 2 6 diamino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazole 6R diamine followed by 14.7 L of dimethyl formamide DMF . Under continuous stirring the mixture was heated to a temperature of between 65 C. and 68 C. A solution of 2926 grams propyl tosylate and 1761 grams diisopropylethyleamine in 3.5 L DMF was added slowly over a period of 2 hours. The reaction was continued at 67 C. for an additional 4 hours after which the solution was gradually cooled to room temperature 18 C. to 22 C. and stirred for an additional 15 hours. The solution was diluted with 14.7 L of MTBE over a time period of 30 minutes and stirred for an additional 1 hour. The precipitated material was collected by filtration and washed with 7.3 L MTBE followed by 3 washes of 3.7 L each of ethanol and a wash with 9.2 L heptane. The washed precipitated cake was dried under high vacuum at 30 C. to 35 C. The final weight of the dried product was 2090 grams representing a 50 yield.

The Limit of Quantitation LOQ to 0.05 precision was determined from six replicate preparations of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine. The RSD was measured to be 6.3 and the S N signal to noise ratio was measured to be 61 1. The pre defined acceptance criteria at LOQ was to have a S N 10 1 and for the RSD to be 20.0 . These results exceeded the acceptance criteria by a wide margin.

Signal to noise levels can vary for numerous reasons including pump behavior air in lines extent of mobile phase degassing system to system variations and electronic fluctuations. The LOD had previously been estimated to be 0.03 based upon the 0.1 preparation which produced a S N of 30 1. Although the recent 0.05 levels produced a S N of 61 1 based upon the overall history of the method the estimated LOD will remain at the stated 0.03 .

Linearity was determined over the range 0.05 150 of nominal 0.2 g mL 600 g mL . The correlation coefficient over this expanded range was determined to be 0.9999. This exceeded the pre defined linearity acceptance criterion of 0.995.

The weight percent assay is on an as is basis versus the current standard which has a purity of 94.0 . Each sample was prepared in duplicate with single injections. Purity data is provided in the Table 5 

Example chromatographs are provided in . Specifically is an HPLC Chromatograph of Sample 118 is an HPLC Chromatograph of Sample 105 is an HPLC Chromatograph of Sample 061 and D is an HPLC Chromatograph of Sample 326A. These data show preparation of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine at 100 purity.

A solid phase extraction SPE procedure was developed to remove the high levels of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine prior to analysis while maintaining recovery of propyl tosylate spiked at 1.5 ppm. The SPE cartridges Supelco Discovery DSC 18 6 mL 1 g are pre activated and washed with 6 mL acetonitrile MeCN followed by 6 mL of water. Five milliliters of 100 mg mL solutions of KNS 760704 prepared in 5 95 MeCN water with 0.5 phosphoric acid are then introduced into the SPE cartridges. The acid sufficiently maintains the polarity of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine so that it can be readily washed from the SPE cartridge with an additional 5 mL of 5 95 MeCN water with 0.5 phosphoric acid while retaining any propyl tosylate. Any propyl tosyate is then eluted from the SPE cartridges using 5 mL of 95 5 MeCN water. Fortunately due to the sensitivity gained from method development experiments no further sample enrichment is needed and the samples are analyzed as is. The samples are compared to a standard of 1.5 ppm 0.15 g mL propyl tosylate prepared in 95 5 MeCN water.

Exemplary HPLC data from of the 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine eluted from the SPE cartridge is provided in . shows an HPLC chromatograph of a propyl tosylate standard prepared from 100 mg of propyl tosylate. shows an HPLC chromatograph of a 1g sample of 6R 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine prepared by the method of embodiments of the invention. No propyl tosylate is evident based on the data provided in as indicated by the absence of a peak corresponding to propyl tosylate right .

The chirality of the 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine prepared as described above was tested using a Chiralpak IA column under HPLC conditions. About 25 mg of 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine were applied to the column. Exemplary HPLC traces of a 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine standard are provided in and an HPLC trace of a sample 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro N6 propyl 2 6 benzothiazole diamine is provided in . Test data is provided in Table 6.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification.

