---

title: TV receiver using cable card for abstracting open cable application platform (OCAP) messages to and from the head end
abstract: A TV receiver such as a set-top box has an Open Cable Application Platform (OCAP) programming interface that communicates with interactive digital video applications such as pay-per-view applications to enable a viewer to communicate requests, purchase orders, and the like to a head end. A cable card provides both decryption of incoming video from the head end as well as translation functionality that transforms standardized messages into a proprietary protocol recognizable to the head end. The OCAP has an API that interfaces with the application and that directs standardized messages from the application to the standardized interface of the removable cable card ensuring common reliance on the translation functionality built in to the cable card.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08166513&OS=08166513&RS=08166513
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08166513
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080317
---
This claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application 60 969 728 filed Sep. 4 2007 incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to TV receivers that use removable cable cards for conditional access CA .

Removable cable cards which provide proprietary decryption functionality for received TV audio and video have been provided to enable consumers to purchase TV receivers such as set top boxes in one cable provider area then use them in another cable provider area should the consumer move there or otherwise wish to use the receiver there. In essence instead of having to buy an entire new set top box when a consumer moves from one cable provider area to another which otherwise is necessary to be able to decrypt TV programming using the typically proprietary encryption scheme of the cable provider the user need only acquire a new and relatively less expensive cable card. Thus cable cards are removably engageable with TV receivers to provide the necessary decryption functionality and each cable provider can lease cable cards with its own proprietary encryption scheme to consumers who move into that provider s area. The remainder of the set top box or other TV receiver advantageously remains useful in all cable provider areas because the remaining components of the receiver typically are not proprietary.

Recent trends have provided receivers that support not just conventional one way communication from the TV signal head end to the receiver but also two way communication to support so called interactive digital video . Examples of interactive digital video include pay per view in which a TV receiver user can input certain requests and commands as well as purchase orders for pay per view programming using the TV receiver and video on demand entailing many of the same communication considerations. Also so called switched digital can be implemented using two way TV receivers. Switched digital in essence allows all the viewers in a particular area to in essence report back to the head end what channel they are viewing so that for instance the head end may take intelligent steps with respect to bandwidth such as ceasing transmission into the area of a channel that is not currently being viewed by anyone in the area and thereby releasing bandwidth for other uses.

Partly to support such two way interactive digital video the Open Cable Application Platform OCAP has been introduced. In effect OCAP defines an application platform interface implemented by the TV receiver platform which allows software applications downloaded to the receiver to communicate with the receiver through a common standard interface and exploit its functionality. In turn the OCAP interface communicates through the receiver s communication port with the TV signal head end. In this way for example viewer purchases of video on demand may be facilitated with the purchased video then transmitted from the head end to the receiver to be decrypted by the cable card of the receiver and then displayed on the TV screen.

As understood herein the use of OCAP can entail rather expensive hardware requirements and some consumers may not desire the added OCAP functionality and instead prefer a less expensive receiver. As also understood herein in such receivers it would be desirable to allow third parties to provide applications that do not rely on OCAP to support certain functionalities such as certain graphical user interfaces for the TV including cross media bars etc.

The present invention further recognizes however that each cable provider in addition to implementing its own proprietary encryption scheme also typically employs a proprietary application protocol from the TV receiver back to the head end. With this understanding in mind the present invention recognizes that the cable card may have further use in addition to decrypting incoming video in also transforming outgoing messages from the third party applications in the receiver which do not necessarily know the cable provider s proprietary application protocol to the head end into messages that are understandable by the head end.

Accordingly while such functionality in the cable card is desirable the present invention makes the following critical observation. If OCAP and or its applications are programmed to know the proprietary application protocol of the cable provider and hence to bypass the transformation capability in the cable card those applications will fail to work across multiple networks and the efficacy of the transformation capability in the cable card which recall is provided by the cable provider whose OCAP based applications might not otherwise require it is not stresses and cannot be guaranteed. In other words the present invention critically recognizes that to ensure the proper working of the transformation capability in the cable card all applications both OCAP and non OCAP should commonly rely on the capability.

With the above in mind a TV receiver such as a set top box or TV has a receptacle that removably receives a cable card. The cable card has a decryption capability. A computer readable medium that can be used by a processor is also provided and the medium bears a first application which provides a first functionality including an interactive digital video functionality that permits a user to send messages from the receiver to a TV signal head end. A first programming interface communicates with the first application. As set forth further below the first programming interface is configured to send messages from the first application to the cable card for transformation thereof into a predetermined proprietary protocol understandable by the head end.

In some implementations a third party application providing a second functionality also transmits messages to the cable card without sending the messages through the programming interface. The kernel of the programming interface can be the Open Cable Application Platform OCAP with the added features disclosed herein. More particularly the OCAP includes a first application programming interface API that is configured for communicating with the first application which may be e.g. an interactive pay per view IPPV application. If desired the OCAP can include second and third APIs configured for communicating with respective second and third applications. The second application can be a video on demand VOD application with the third API being a switched digital application.

In another aspect a computer readable medium is disclosed that can be used by a digital processor. The medium bears an Open Cable Application Platform OCAP programming interface which includes a first application programming interface API configured for communicating with a first application. The first application has an interactive digital video functionality. The first API is configured to send messages from the first application to a removable cable card for abstracting information in the messages. The cable card also has a video decryption capability.

In still another aspect a method includes providing a cable card that is removably engageable with a TV receiver for decrypting video from a head end and providing decrypted video to the receiver for display thereof. The cable card also transforms standardized messages to from applications associated with the receiver into the proprietary protocol usable by the head end. A first application is also provided with the first application providing a first functionality including an interactive digital video functionality. A first programming interface communicates with the first application. The first programming interface is configured to send messages from the first application to the cable card for transformation thereof into the application protocol usable by the head end.

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

Referring initially to a system is shown generally designated which includes a television receiving via a set top box STB audio video TV programming from a head end such as a cable or satellite head end over a wired or wireless link . The STB and TV are examples of receivers. Other examples include set back boxes. While the STB is shown separately housed from the chassis of the TV it is to be understood that the functionality of the STB may be incorporated into the chassis .

As shown the STB includes a STB processor and a computer readable medium such as volatile or non volatile solid state storage disk storage tape storage or other type of electronic storage medium or logic circuitry that typically can be executed by the processor . The STB is also formed with a receptacle for removably receiving a cable card . It is to be understood that while shows a removable cable card the term cable card also includes chips that are intended to be permanently mounted in a component such as a STB with only the software contained on the chip being removable .

Moreover while the element is referred to herein as a cable card it is to be understood that present principles apply not only to cable TV systems but also to satellite systems and other TV systems. Accordingly cable card means a removable or non removable module that undertakes both decryption of audio video content as well as translation for the purpose of abstracting messages to from the applications discussed below into a protocol that is understood by the head end . To this end the cable card may have its own internal processor and electronic storage medium . Likewise the head end typically includes one or more head end processors and computer readable media . In some implementations the cable card may be established by two modules one for decryption and one for protocol translation.

Additionally as shown the TV typically includes a TV processor and data storage medium . The TV may also include a TV receptacle for removably receiving the cable card in the event that no STB is provided. Once the cable card decrypts audio video from the head end using a typically proprietary decryption algorithm and keys the video may be presented on a display of the TV e.g. a flat panel matrix display cathode ray tube or other appropriate video display.

It is to be understood that the software architecture shown in and the logic shown in is implemented on one or more of the TV and or STB and or other TV receiver for cooperation with the cable card .

Turning now to as shown an interface such as an open cable application platform OCAP interface is provided. The interface may be implemented on the STB memory for execution by the STB processor . Or the interface may be implemented elsewhere e.g. on the TV storage for execution by the TV processor . A non limiting example OCAP specification without the below described APIs is available at www.openeable.com.

In accordance with present principles the present inventive aspect provides one or more application programming interfaces API to the OCAP interface . In the embodiment shown first through third API are shown for communicating with respective OCAP applications for purposes to be shortly disclosed. The OCAP applications may be interactive digital video applications. Accordingly the first application may be an interactive pay per view IPPV application that can be invoked by a user to e.g. browse select and pay for pay per view programs from the head end . The second application may be a video on demand VOD application that enables viewers to e.g. browse select and pay for VOD programs from the head end typically with trick play features such as fast forward pause rewind etc. On the other hand the third application may be a switched digital application to function in accordance with switched digital principles discussed above.

Accordingly each API is tailored to communicate with one or more respective applications typically interactive video applications and to send messages to from the application to a transformer function in the cable card . The transformer function transforms or otherwise renders the standardized messages it receives into an application protocol typically proprietary that is recognized by the head end . The cable card then forwards the proprietary messages through a modem in e.g. the STB to the head end. In response the head end may provide proprietary messages and signals including audio video streams back through a TV tuner in e.g. the STB . These proprietary messages may be transformed into standardized messages and these messages may be decrypted by a decrypt function of the cable card typically proprietary to the same cable company as is the transform function . Decrypted audio video signals are sent to the TV where video may be displayed on the display and audio played over TV speakers. The standardized responses may be forwarded to the applications.

Additionally one or more non OCAP third party applications such as user interface applications and the like may be provided in the STB and or TV and may also communicate with the head end to receive e.g. electronic program guide EPG information. Like the OCAP applications the non OCAP application can communicate with the head end by virtue of sending its messages through the transform function of the cable card even though the head end may recognize a protocol unknown to the non OCAP application .

It may now be appreciated that the APIs facilitate the execution of the functions of the respective underlying applications . In the case of e.g. IPPV these functions include by way of example only allowing the user to obtain price options from the head end select a video display format select a human language in which the program is desired select a video quality obtain a receipt from the head end should a PPV stream be purchased obtain purchasing history etc. A non limiting example IPPV API is appended to the end of this specification.

Block represents that at the cable card the messages are transformed to the typically proprietary application protocol recognized by the head end . This transformation may be regarded as an abstraction of the calls from the OCAP application into a format suitable for the head end . The messages are then sent through the modem to the head end at block .

Thus as shown the IPPV translator of the OCAP implementation can communicate through a standardized cable card IPPV interface of a cable card interface with a message translator such as the IPPV translator of the cable card implementation which is a translator function of the cable card that is in addition to the mere video decryption function. In turn the IPPV translator of the cable card implementation can communicate with a head end IPPV through a proprietary head end IPPV interface of a head end interface as shown. Also as shown in the IPPV translator of the cable card implementation can communicate with a resident non OCAP IPPV application through the cable card IPPV interface .

Thus in the architecture of the IPPV translator is provided for the OCAP implementation and the OCAP IPPV interface is provided for the OCAP interface such that the OCAP IPPV application does not communicate directly with the head end IPPV except through a IPPV message translator of the cable card using the IPPV translator and OCAP IPPV interface as shown.

While the particular TV RECEIVER USING CABLE CARD FOR ABSTRACTING OPEN CABLE APPLICATION PLATFORM OCAP MESSAGES TO AND FROM THE HEAD END is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

