---

title: High burning rate tactical solid rocket propellant, and related method
abstract: The invention is a composition for a high burning-rate solid rocket propellant, where the composition includes a binder compounded with a soluble energetic additive; a metallic fuel; and an oxidative fuel. The resulting composition has a tactical Class 1.3 hazard rating, and a linear regression rate that is substantially equivalent to a tactical Class 1.1 hazard rating obtainable using solid rocket propellants. The composition may include a heat-conducting element, a plasticizer, a curing component, a combustion catalyst, and curing catalyst.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08986473&OS=08986473&RS=08986473
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08986473
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080903
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to solid rocket propellants and more particularly to solid rocket propellants which have a burn rate that is normally only achievable with a Class 1.1 explosive but have the safety of a Class 1.3 explosive.

A Class 1 explosive is any substance or article including a device which is designed to function by explosion i.e. an extremely rapid release of gas and heat or which by chemical reaction within itself is able to function in a similar manner even if not designed to function by explosion unless the substance or article is otherwise classed under provision of 49 CFR 173.50. Class 1 explosives are divided into six divisions as follows 1 Division 1.1 consists of explosives that have a mass explosion hazard. 2 Division 1.2 consists of explosives that have a projection hazard but not a mass explosion hazard. 3 Division 1.3 consists of explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or minor projection hazard or both but not a mass explosion hazard that is a mass non detonable hazard rating. Classes 1.4 1.6 are slower burning explosives and are not suitable for rocket propellants.

A need exists for extending the linear burning rate of tactical i.e. Class 1 Division 3 or Class 1.3 composite solid rocket propellants for standard ship borne missiles. The control of burning rate may be viewed as an aspect of energy management or how the energy initially stored within the solid propellant charge is allowed to be released. Simplistically the thrust F delivered by a rocket may be expressed as where and

where dm dt is the mass evolved by the burning propellant charge per unit time Uis the rocket s exhaust velocity is the solid propellant density r is the propellant linear burning rate S is the total burning surface area of the solid charge Iis the propellant specific impulse which may be thought of as its energy content per unit mass and gis the gravitational constant. As the quantities r and Iare intrinsic properties of any solid propellant composition one might conclude that a rationale for this need is to increase the volumetric loading of next generation solid rocket combustors i.e. they will become increasingly volume limited . Hence energy management dm dt for example via extrinsic means e.g. burning surface S will become unavailable. A complication is that for current technology compositions i.e. AP Al and inert hydrocarbon binder the chemical kinetics of combustion limits the surface regression rate to about 12 mm sec 0.5 in sec at 1 000 psi. Catalytically accelerated decomposition has been observed to raise this regression rate to 25 to 50 mm sec 1 to 2 in sec at 1 000 psi in some cases albeit with an increase in hazards e.g. friction and or impact . Most notable are with Fe based liquid Catocene or ultra fine solid NanoCat FeO . However rates of 125 to 150 mm sec are cited for the current need.

Such regression rates have been demonstrated and exceeded in high energy solid rocket propellants for interceptors e.g. Sprint Hibex . However to achieve both the requisite energy densities and regression rates such propellants based upon cast composite modified double base technology present mass detonable i.e. Class 1 Division 1 or 1.1 and Safety Life i.e. long term life chemical stability issues. Their hazards when subjected to unplanned insult e.g. enemy fire will also be unacceptable for ship borne ordnance applications. Hence it will be necessary to maintain a 1.3 hazard classification.

A need exists for a propellant that achieves a burn rate historically only attainable using a mass detonable propellant e.g. a Class 1 Division 1 or 1.1 explosive . Further a need exists for a propellant that still meets the Safety Life i.e. long term life chemical stability acceptable for ship borne ordnance applications which heretofore have only been obtainable with propellants classified as a Class 1 Division 3 or 1.3 explosive.

Further a method is needed for developing a composition of a non mass detonable propellant that is highly energetic where a mass detonable propellant is a Class 1 Division 1 or 1.1 explosive and yet meets the Safety Life i.e. long term life chemical stability acceptable for ship borne ordnance applications which is a Division 1.3 hazard classification.

An aspect of the invention is a composition for a high burning rate solid rocket propellant and a method for developing the composition. The composition is a rocket propellant including a binder that is compounded with a soluble energetic additive. The binder is selected to not only impart physical integrity to the solid rocket propellant but also to solubilize the energetic additive to add energy to the propellant to be an effective binder at relatively low percentages of the total composition to have high linear regression burning rates and to be relatively stable over a wide temperature range. The composition is not so energetic as to cause a change in classification. The binder may include one or more polymers and if an energetic polymer such as BAMO AMMO is employed it may only be used at levels that do not shift the hazard rating.

In an aspect the composition includes an elastomeric polymeric binder compounded with a soluble energetic additive a metallic fuel and an oxidative fuel where the composition has a tactical Class 1.3 hazard rating and a linear regression rate that is conventionally only obtainable using solid rocket propellants having a tactical Class 1.1 hazard rating. In an embodiment the elastomeric binder is a relatively polar polymer. The polarity increases the capability to solubilize energetic additives as most energetic additives include nitrogen or oxygen or both and compounds including these atoms are generally polar molecules.

In another aspect the invention is also a method for developing a composition for a solid rocket propellant fuel having a tactical Class 1.3 hazard rating and a linear regression rate that is conventionally only obtainable using solid rocket propellants having a tactical Class 1.1 hazard rating. The method includes selecting at least one binder having good solubility for an energetic additive preparing a composition of a solid rocket propellant based on empirically predicted burn rates measuring the burn rates optimizing the compositions burn rate by making the binder more thermally responsive and confirming that the composition still meets the tactical Class 1.3 hazard rating.

The composition includes an elastomeric polymeric binder compounded with a soluble energetic additive a metallic fuel and an oxidative fuel where the composition has a tactical Class 1.3 hazard rating and a linear regression rate that is conventionally only obtainable using solid rocket propellants having a tactical Class 1.1 hazard rating. The binder is selected from the group including polar polymers polyesters such as HTPCL hydroxyl terminated polycaprolactones and polycaprolactone containing copolymers such as CAPA and HTPE hydroxyl terminated polyethers such as PEG polyethylene glycol PPG polypropylene glycol PTMG polytetramethylene glycol PIBG polyisobutylene glycol and PBG polybutylene glycol polymeric combinations of glycols and blends thereof . The binders are generally admixed with a plasticizer like TA triacetin DOP dioctyl phthalate DOA dioctyladipate DOM dioctylmaleate DBP dibutylphthalate and adiponitrile. The binders may be cured with monomeric diisocyanates or polymeric isocyanates or other suitable curing agent. Examples of curing agents without limitations are difunctional materials such as IPDI isophorone diisocyanate HDI hexamethylene diisocyanate and DDI dimeryl diisocyanate and polyfunctional Bayer Desmodur N 100 which is a biuret made from HDI. Additional curing agents may be used if the functional group on the polymers is carboxyl for example bisphenol A epoxy resin. CAPA copolymers are manufactured by Solvay Interox Inc. The binders compounded with alkyl nitro compounds such as CL 20 are more stable than the binders classified as energetic binders . For instance Morton Thiokol offers an energetic binder called BAMO AMMO which is the thermoplasticblock copolymer of polyoxetanes. BAMO AMMO is melted at moderately elevated temperature and solidified into an elastomeric material. It is made from two types of monomers 3 3 bis azidomethyl oxetane or BAMO as a hard block and 3 azidomethyl 3 methyloxetane or AMMO as a soft block. BAMO AMMO is less stable than the invented binder and the resulting propellant based on BAMO AMMO is generally classified as a 1.1 explosive.

In an embodiment the soluble energetic additive is selected from the group of CL 20 hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane octanitrocubane RNX hexahydrotrinitrotriazine RDX hexahydro 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazocine ADN ammonium dinitramide ADNAZ. N acetyl 3 3 dinitroazetine TNAZ 1 3 3 trinitroazetidine . Combinations of these energetic materials also may be used.

Other energetic additives like nitroplasticizers such as nitrate esters i.e. BTTN butane trio trinitrate TMETN trimethylolethane trinitrate TEGDN triethylene glycol dinitrate BDNPA F bis 2 2 dinitro propyl acetal bis 2 2 dinitro propyl formal or mixtures thereof fall into the Division 1.1 and do not meet the Safety Life criteria for ship borne applications and are therefore unacceptable. In an embodiment the energetic additive is CL 20.

In an embodiment the metallic fuels are selected from the group of aluminum iron magnesium zinc boron tungsten zirconium titanium copper chromium molybdenum metal oxides hydrides or mixtures thereof. Aluminum is generally the most common.

The composition can furthermore include heat conducting elements where the elements are selected from the group consisting of whiskers wires staples spheres flakes and nano phase particles. These heat conducting elements mechanistically transfer heat from the burning surface of the regression layer to the underlying layer of the solid rocket propellant acting to preheat the propellant so that it is closer to its activation temperature. The transfer mechanism utilizes conduction which is more efficient than conventional tactical solid propellants that essentially rely on radiation and convection and very little conduction. The heat conducting elements act like heat conducting antennas which reach into or close to the flame and conduct heat below the burning surface thereby involving a greater volume of propellant per unit of time in the decomposition process preliminary to ignition and burning. Some of the metallic fuel itself can also have a similar shape. In essence both the metallic fuel and the conducting elements serve as fuels.

In an embodiment an oxidative fuel is AP ammonium perchlorate and a metallic fuel is aluminum where the aluminum is finely divided and includes a high surface area.

The composition of the high burning rate solid rocket propellant may further include cure catalysts such as dibutyltin diacetate dibutyltin dilaurate triphenyl bismuth and ferric acetylacetonate.

The composition may additionally include a combustion catalyst which facilitates burning where the combustion catalyst is one of the generally catalysts used with AP type of propellants such as an iron oxide or an exotic iron ferrocene compound I.e. bis ethyl ferrocenyl propane . Compounds such as bis ethyl ferrocenyl propane may additionally function as a combustion catalyst and a fuel.

The high burning rate solid rocket propellant may further include additional additives that are found in a fully formulated rocket fuel propellant including stabilizers i.e. antioxidants bonding agents processing agents i.e. lubricants opacifiers and colorants to illustrate visually homogeneity.

A benefit of the higher regression rate is that less highly convoluted propellant surface to volume relationships are required for achievement of motor energy management design parameters. The higher regression rate largely minimizes or eliminates the need for stress concentrating geometric propellant charge features and ensures a longer rocket motor service life.

In an embodiment a method of developing a composition for a solid rocket propellant increases the linear regression rate that approaches the tactical Class 1.1 solid rocket propellants via a multi variant systems oriented approach while maintaining a Class 1.3 safety rating. The method may include selecting at least one binder having good solubility for an energetic additive preparing a composition of a solid rocket propellant based on empirically predicted burn rates measuring the burn rates optimizing the compositions burn rate by making the binder more thermally responsive and confirming that the composition still meets the tactical Class 1.3 hazard rating. Additionally the method may include theoretically evaluating intrinsic performance characteristics by calculating the specific impulse and the density impulse as a function of binder type binder composition percent binder and percent fuel as well as testing and measuring samples to confirm that the theoretical intrinsic performance characteristics are predictive of actual results. In addition parameters of interest for systems optimization may include propellant combustor chamber temperature nozzle throat gas temperature propellant density nozzle exit plane temperature exhaust species and others. The method can include optimizing the composition for a volume limited motor or a weight limited motor e.g. an upper stage as an appropriate performance figure of merit for selection. Additionally the method may incorporate known empirical parameters such as compatibility shock and thermal stability environmental and health issues and rheological properties of the propellant and or binder in its uncured and cured states to eliminate certain combinations. For example HTPB hydroxy terminated polybutadiene is a relatively non polar binder as compared to PEG and nitramine compounds I.e. CL 20 are soluble in PEG but not in HTPB. Some isocyanate cure additives such as TDI toluene diisocyanate are highly toxic to humans and are more hazardous than other materials such as IPDI.

The method may include optimizing the composition for a volume limited motor or a weight limited motor as an appropriate performance figure of merit for selection. This optimization may be quantified for example on the basis of the theoretical burn out velocity V of a rocket or missile of interest while employing various parametrically varied candidate propellant compositions. Further compositional tailoring may follow.

State of the art tactical solid rocket propellants that are approved for shipboard use must meet a Class 1.3 hazard rating. Many of these propellants utilize a composition include a binder such as HTPB which is a metallic fuel that is an aluminum powder and a solid oxidizer such as AP. Generally the HTPB binder is plasticized with a plasticizer like DOA. High energy plasticizers such as nitro esters are too hazardous to be employed as there is a heat and shock danger for instance if the vessel was hit by incoming ordnance or there was some onboard explosion. The nitramine compounds such as CL 20 are stable for use but are only minimally soluble in HTPB binder which is relatively nonpolar. In an embodiment identified binder systems are compatible with soluble energetic additives such as alkyl nitro compounds for example CL 20.

Referring to Table 1 PEG 8000 which is a polyethylene glycol 8000 g. mol. wt. was combined with TA triacetin and CL 20 where the CL 20 dissolved and comprised 20.6 by weight of the binder. HTPE was combined with TA and CL 20 where the CL 20 dissolved and comprised 14.6 by weight of the binder. Polycaprolactone PCL was combined with TA and CL 20 where the CL 20 dissolved and comprised 16.4 by weight of the binder. The R 45M is the backbone polymer in an HTPB and was combined with DOA dioctyladipate and CL 20 but only dissolved a small percentage of CL 20 3.2 . The calculated heat of explosion and density data actual data are given in the Table 1.

As can be observed small to medium proportions of a non nitro ester additives e.g. CL 20 rapidly increase the binder energy while avoiding Safety Life implications that attend for example the decomposition of nitrate esters. Note HTPE TA with and without CL 20. An addition of 14.6 CL 20 increased the combustion energy from 612 to 736 cal cm an increase of 20 . The addition of AP in the HTPE TA CL 20 binder did not result in salting out of the CL 20. All the compositions had an acceptable or moderate sensitivity to Drop Weight Impact Sliding Friction and Electrostatic Discharge and hence could be handled safely. Differential Scanning calorimetry did not find any evidence of chemical incompatibility.

Compared to exact volumetric analog HTPB based propellants some advantages are as follows. The binder systems include a soluble energetic additive to give a rocket motor designer greater flexibility of energy management i.e. less highly convoluted propellant surface to volume relationships . Concomitantly higher propellant charge structural margins result from the new propellants by making available a greater fraction of the available combustor volume for propellant storage i.e. total energy content . The binder systems including a soluble energetic additive give the propellant formulator additional degrees of freedom in achieving high linear burning rates. Propellants are materials that by design burn layerwise normal to the burning surface. Their rates of surface regression are governed by their respective thermal responsiveness. In conventional HTPB AP systems Class 1.3 burning rates may be accelerated to a limited degree via ultra fine i.e. high surface to volume AP and nano sized combustion catalysts. The high specific surfaces of these constituents cause processability difficulties in high performance systems as one seeks to use as little liquid binder as possible for such compositions. Nano phase metallic fuels aid in rate acceleration because as with combustion catalysts these materials may locate the flame front and its intense radiant energy source closer to the decomposing but uncombusted surface of the propellant. However the conventional HTPB binder remains relatively unresponsive to the thermal flux. In contrast a significant feature of the invented binder systems include a soluble energetic additive which are not only thermally responsive to radiant and convective processes but also to conductive heat transfer mechanisms which are the most efficient of all mechanisms. This mechanism may be enhanced by the use of conductive metallic fuels in the form of whiskers wires staples and or flakes and in combinations. In concert with combustion catalysts and or nano phase metals these materials may be utilized as heat conduction antennas which reach into the flame and conduct heat below the burning surface thereby involving a greater volume of propellant per unit of time in the decomposition process preliminary to ignition and burning. This status was formerly achieved in extremely high burning rate propellants e.g. as for interceptor missiles but at a cost that these compositions are Class 1.1 i.e. mass detonability and hence are unacceptable for shipboard operations .

The binder systems including a soluble energetic additive increase the thermochemical density impulse of the compositions an important factor for tactical systems . The binder systems including a soluble energetic additive decrease the parasitic mass of the combustor and hence the missile because smaller pressure vessels are required for the smaller more energy dense propellant volume. The binder systems including a soluble energetic additive extend the Service Life e.g. long term life of rockets employing such binder systems. One possible reason for the extended Service Life as mentioned above is that at the higher available burning rate a less highly convoluted propellant surface to volume relationship may be needed to achieve the necessary energy management for the rocket s mission. This characteristic in turn may mitigate or eliminate requirements for stress risers e.g. strut roots or internal corners in the propellant charge geometry which can extend the time during which sufficient propellant strain capability still exists to preclude structural failure e.g. cracking .

As indicated in provided are Iso plots of FeO catalyzed model compositions. Experimental control of ballistic catalyst level indicated a decomposition rate of Ammonium Perchlorate AP NH4CLO4 was catalyzed by Ferric Oxide FeO . With each binder system Ferric Oxide was substituted for an equal volume of AP. All model compositions were Iso Volumetric the Ferric Oxide catalyst level for each was adjusted in proportion to the volume fraction of AP. For each catalyzed model composition the Ferric Oxide was chosen to be 0.00375 volume percent of the AP level in the un catalyzed model composition. On an Iso Volumetric basis it was indicated that the worst maximum Density Impulse performance i.e. energy density of all the novel propellant compositions containing CL 20 dissolved in the Binder exceeds the best Density Impulse performance of the compositions based upon the SOTA HTPB DOA Binder. This outcome is highly desirable though not central to the initial purpose of the invention which is energy management that is high propellant burning rate.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

