---

title: Demolition charge having multi-primed initiation system
abstract: A demolition charge system has a multi-primed initiation system with a rigid container defining an internal chamber. An initiation tube is supported within the internal chamber and is configured to receive a demolition initiator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07882785&OS=07882785&RS=07882785
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07882785
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 506 270 filed Aug. 14 2006 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 472 652 on Jan. 6 2009 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by an employee of the Department of the Navy and may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for any governmental purpose without payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates to demolition charges and more particularly to demolition charges capable of being initiated by a variety of standard initiation systems or devices.

Demolition packages containing explosives have long been used in the field to remove obstacles and accomplish a variety of other military purposes. Many of these demolition packages are hastily put together expedients made under stressful conditions and consequently the packages may have sensitive components in the demolition train that detonate inadvertently or the packages simply may not have enough or the right kind of explosives to do what is needed. Consequently the traditional bag like satchel charge was developed to fill this need. The bag like satchel charges are primarily canvas backpacks containing blocks of explosive linked by detonating cord. These charges are bulky 20 lbs and are not easily primed or employed without some preparation by the user. The charges also do not have a multi primed initiation system to assure reliable initiation. Additionally because these charges can contain their own detonating cord and sensitive boosters the charges are susceptible to accidental initiation. The traditional satchel charges can only be placed directly on or near a target and are not capable of being mounted by magnets on a tripod or with other support apparatuses.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to a demolition charge capable of being reliably initiated by a variety of initiation systems or devices and or configurations thereof.

According to an illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure a rigid container is provided having interconnected rigid thin end walls side walls a base wall and a lid. Illustratively the lid continuously fits onto the end and side walls to cover and contain an internal chamber. Each of the ends walls has an opening longitudinally aligned with each other. An elongate hollow thin walled plastic tube longitudinally extends through the internal chamber and couplers securely hold the tube in the container. At least one demolition initiator longitudinally would extend in the tube. In an alternate configuration and preferably used for smaller containers two elongate hollow thin walled tubes extending from corners of the container and integrating in the middle of the container may be used to contain the demolition initiators.

A main charge in the internal chamber is placed in close abutting intimate contact along the length of the tube s where the tube s extends through the chamber to assure demolition of the main charge. Illustratively a continuous recessed strip portion having a continuous groove is provided to extend along a continuous rim of the end walls and the side walls.

In an illustrative embodiment a continuous lip portion along the outer edge of the lid is shaped with an inwardly extending continuous rim. The lip portion and the inwardly extending continuous rim of the lid are sized to be fitted onto the strip portion and a continuous groove of the side and end walls with sufficient force to compress and override the continuous strip portion and fit the continuous rim into the continuous groove in a sealed interlocking engagement.

Threaded openings are illustratively supported by the end walls and have outer portions adapted to engage correspondingly shaped structure of a support structure to more advantageously locate the main charge with respect to a target. In an illustrative embodiment elongate tubular receptacles are equidistantly spaced apart around the periphery of the internal chamber. Each of the elongate tubular receptacles has an elongate cavity extending between inner surfaces of the base and the lid to contain a magnet disposed in each cavity.

Referring now to and an improved demolition charge system of the present disclosure has a box like container made from a plastic material or other cost effective material that creates a rigid structure suitable to house explosives is relatively non corrosive. Wood may be selected as well as most metals provided that they are properly treated to be sealed and resistant to the corrosive influences of the operating environment. The container can be molded or extruded as an integral watertight rigid structure from the plastic material to have interconnected and relatively light weight thin end walls and side walls and and base wall or base of sufficient toughness and crush resistance to be serviceable for field operations. In one illustrative embodiment the container is formed of a thermoplastic such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS wherein the walls and are each approximately 0.150 inches thick for protecting explosives received within the container . Such a material was illustratively selected for its non fragmentation light weight and low cost.

A continuous recessed strip portion having a continuous groove extends along a continuous rim A of the end walls and and the side walls and .

A flat top wall or lid of the container has a continuous lip portion along an outer edge B that is shaped with an inwardly extending continuous rim . The lip portion and the rim are sized to be fitted onto the strip portion and the continuous groove with sufficient force to compress and override the strip portion and to fit the continuous rim into the groove in a sealed and interlocking engagement. In other words the rim has sufficient resiliency and exerts sufficient inward bias to accommodate and ride over the lip portion and then snap into the groove as the lid is fitted onto the side walls and the end walls . The container having the lid in place on the side walls and the end walls and the base covers and forms an internal chamber that may contain and is illustratively filled with an explosive main charge . Illustratively the lid is sealingly secured to the side walls and the end walls through conventional means such as a glue adhesive By sealing the lid to the walls users are not exposed to loose explosive materials which are generally considered mild toxins and may cause a hazard if inadvertently detonated.

Since different explosives create different explosive effects the constituency of main charge can be suited to the task to be performed and the explosives available. Mixes of different explosives might be desirable or a smaller main charge in the chamber may be needed. In this case the required amount of the selected explosives can be measured out and placed in the chamber or if more is needed for a task additional ones of the demolition charge system can be stacked and simultaneously detonated. In either case reliable demolition is assured because of the initiation of the present disclosure to be discussed further below.

In one illustrative embodiment the chamber of container is configured to received approximately 10 pounds of explosive defining main charge . Illustratively the main charge may comprise a plastic explosive such as composition C . Other explosives including plastic bonded explosives PBXs may also be used such as PAX 47 PBXN 109 or modifications thereof including a variety of fills. The main charge may be received within a conductive container such as a foil bag particularly when a non conductive container is utilized in order to reduce undesirable electrostatic discharge ESD .

The container of the demolition charge system has a number of elongate tubular receptacles equi distantly spaced apart around the periphery of the chamber . The receptacles can be integrally formed with the end walls and the side walls and and the base . The receptacles each have an elongate hollow cylindrical shaped cavity that extends between the inside surfaces of the base and the lid when the lid is secured on the recessed strip portion .

A magnet is placed in each elongated cavity shorter receptacles having magnets in their shorter cylindrical cavities can be located on the base along the centerline to further assure magnetic securing of the demolition charge system on an iron based surface. All of the magnets can magnetically hold the demolition charge system on and against a steel iron or other ferrous target. The magnets also allow for the quick attachment of a fragmentation plate accessory not shown whether or not the magnets engage or not engage a target.

Optionally one or more of the receptacles and can have the magnets removed in order to reduce the overall weight of the demolition charge system . This option is more attractive when there is no need to anchor the demolition charge system on ferrous targets.

The end walls and are illustratively provided with threaded fittings having openings or apertures longitudinally aligned with each other and also extending through adjacent receptacles A and B. An elongate hollow thin walled plastic initiation tube extends through the chamber approximate to the longitudinal centerline of the container and through the center of the chamber and where the main charge would be positioned. In one illustrative embodiment the initiation tube is formed of a thermoplastic such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS .

The initiation tube supports couplers such as threaded ends engaging inner portions of the threaded fittings to securely hold the tube in the container . In an alternative embodiment shown in the coupler supported by each end of the tube may include an enlarged head having a pair of diametrically opposed keys . The keys may be received within cooperating keyways formed within walls and .

The initiation tube may be a single piece but optionally the tube may have aligned portions A and B joined by a coupling sleeve C. The aligned portions A and B and coupling sleeve C may be useful to aid mounting of tube in the container . The number of aligned portions A B and coupling sleeves C forming the initiation tube may vary based upon the dimensions of the container and the required structural support required for the tube to extend across the internal chamber . As further detailed herein in connection with in an alternate configuration and illustratively for use with smaller containers five pounds of explosive main charge vs. ten pounds of explosive main charge two elongate hollow thin walled initiation tubes may extend from the corners of the container and integrate in the middle of the container for containing demolition initiators. The configuration of the initiation tubes is similar to a cross when viewed from the top of the box and centralized within the volume of the container.

Irrespective of the exact configuration of the initiation tube the tube has a relatively large longitudinally extending internal duct configured to receive a number of the demolition initiators for priming of the main charge. The demolition initiators can be individual ones of or can include combinations of 1 a detonating cord of fifty grains per foot size i.e. fifty grams of explosive per foot of length and or 2 blasting caps that may be connected to appropriate cap initiating means such as electrically conductive wires or a standard igniting fuse and or 3 other standard military initiation devices such as time actuated chemically actuated and or remote radio signal actuated detonators. These multi primed combinations of demolition means increase the safety of operation by introducing redundancy and can create higher or more intense shock waves to further guarantee reliable demolition of the main charge.

Detonating cords are known in the art as including a thin flexible tube receiving an explosive core. Detonating cords provide flexibility particularly during field installation within the initiation tubes . As shown in the detonating cord may extend longitudinally through the duct and beyond opposing open ends of the tube which are concentrically received within the openings of opposing walls and in order to facilitate field assembly and the stringing together of multiple demolition charge systems .

The thin walled initiation tube can be sized e.g. having a inner diameter of approximately 0.275 inches to have one or more of the detonating cords blasting caps and the other standard detonators quickly installed by the user to reliably initiate the main charge in the chamber . The main charge would be positioned in the chamber in close abutting and intimate contact along the length of the initiation tube where the tube extends through the chamber in order to assure demolition of the main charge . Reliable initiation is further enhanced because of the design of the initiation tube extending through the main charge in the chamber and the use if necessary of a thin walled cylinder booster charge. The booster charge would be wrapped around the hollow initiation tube .

Given the relatively weak explosive energy generated by typical detonating cords the initiation tube is thin walled. More particularly the portions A and B of tube each include a tube wall including at least a portion of which is thin enough to permit the explosive force from the detonating cord to transmit sufficient energy to the main charge to cause detonation thereof. In other words the detonation of the detonating cord has to provide enough shock through the plastic tube and into to the explosive main charge to cause the explosive main charge to react in various ways that cause it to detonate. Shock implies the existence of a shock front a physical discontinuity in thermodynamic values. A shock front or wave is generally known as a type of propagating disturbance that carries energy and can propagate through a medium solid liquid or gas .

With reference to an illustrative embodiment portion A of an initiation tube is shown as including a side or tube wall having a first portion with a first wall thickness t. A second portion of the tube wall in the form of slots has a second wall thickness t. The slots are diametrically opposed and extend axially along a majority of the length of the tube wall . The second wall thickness is illustratively less than 0.050 inches. While a thickness t of 0.030 inches provides improved detonation reliability the illustrative embodiment slot has a thickness t of about 0.020 inches 0.003 inches tolerance for event greater detonation reliability. In order to provide adequate structural support for the initiation tube the first portion illustratively has a wall thickness t of about 0.030 inches 0.0003 inches tolerance . In summary the dimensions and material of the tube wall are illustratively designed based upon detonation properties of the detonating cord and the main charge wherein the tube wall will permit the detonating cord and the main charge to function while being relatively insensitive to accidental detonation reduce the risk of misfire or partial detonation due to failure to transmit sufficient energy or shock through the tube wall obtain a uniform and predictable detonation of the main charge and be stable enough to endure rough handling or impacts transmitted to the main charge and to the detonating cord placed within the tube without accidental detonation or damage to the tube .

Use of a mounting tripod not shown or other mounting support apparatus for raising the demolition charge system above the ground and specifically locating the system in close proximity next to a building or other above ground target might be required to increase the effectiveness of the demolition charge system. The demolition charge system of the present disclosure can be appropriately located for such applications since outer portions of the threaded fittings that are not engaged by threaded ends of the hollow initiation tube can be used to receive a projection or correspondingly threaded mounting stud not shown of a mounting tripod or other support apparatus. In other words the outer portions of the threaded fittings are adapted to engage a correspondingly shaped structure of different support structures to more advantageously locate the main charge with respect to an intended target. Accordingly the demolition charge system of the disclosure can be used with a greater degree of effectiveness.

The demolition charge system of the present disclosure is a needed improvement over the explosive expedients of the prior art. The amount and constituency of the main charge can be quickly tailored in the field if need be or an appropriate number of demolition charge systems can be quickly made beforehand for a demolition task. Since a particular size for the demolition charge system can be standardized at say about ten pounds for example a considerable inventory can be pre made and personnel can be trained in their proper use. The container can be made in a variety of different shapes instead of the box like configuration referred to above so long as it encloses a chamber containing the correct amount of explosives.

The demolition charge system can be primed with one or more of the detonating cords so that the required number of demolition charge systems can be strung on the same line of the detonating cord and initiated at the same time. Without the longitudinally extending thin walled initiation tube of each demolition charge system containing the common strung through detonating cord each charge would otherwise need an individual detonator. Since detonators and handling detonators are known to be the most dangerous parts of a demolition system the claimed demolition charge systems having a common detonating cord reduce or eliminate the need for multiple separate detonators and decrease the risks and hazards to users.

Since the demolition charge system can be loaded with a variety of explosives the main charge can be tailored for the job and use the materials at hand. The selected main charge may contain a booster that is less sensitive safer than previous charges yet the main charge is sensitive enough to be initiated via the detonating cord coextending in the longitudinally extending initiation tube .

As a further safety feature of the demolition charge system of the disclosure the system need not be shipped or stored with the detonating cord built in order to make the system safer and less likely to detonate accidentally. Instead the detonating cord can be quickly inserted through the duct of the initiator tube of each demolition charge systems just prior to demolition in the field.

Threaded openings create a pair of ports on opposite ends of demolition charge system . Accordingly each demolition charge system can be simultaneously mated to one or more detonators detonating cord blasting caps etc. and onto a tripod or other mating projection on another support apparatus. The gives the user many options in the way the charge is used and makes using the charge easier than conventional designs. Optionally cables could be strung through openings to provide for support and or be used to slide or pull appropriate demolition initiators into the initiation tube for immediate or later demolition.

The demolition charge system illustratively includes a container opposing side walls and and opposing side walls and . The walls and are connected by corners A B A and B and a base . As with container detailed above container is formed of a thermoplastic such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS .

A flat top wall or removable lid of the container cooperates with the walls and . The container having the lid in place on the walls and and the base covers and forms an internal chamber that may contain and preferable is filled with an explosive main charge .

The container of the demolition charge system has a number of elongate tubular receptacles positioned proximate the corners A B A and B of the chamber . As detailed above in connection with the demolition charge system magnets may be placed in receptacles . The magnets are configured to magnetically hold the demolition charge system on and against a steel iron or other ferrous target. The magnets also allow for the quick attachment of a fragmentation plate accessory not shown .

First and second initiation tubes and extend within the internal chamber of container . As with initiation tube detailed above each initiation tube and illustratively comprises at least one elongated hollow tube configured to receive at least one demolition initiator such as detonating cord . In one illustrative embodiment the initiation tubes and may be formed of a thermoplastic such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS . While a pair of initiation tubes and are illustrated in for providing operational flexibility typically only one of the initiation tubes will receive demolition initiator s .

The first initiation tube extends substantially perpendicular to the second initiation tube . The first initiation tube is coupled to the second initiation tube by a cross shaped coupling member supported proximate the center of the internal chamber . The initiation tubes and support couplers such as enlarged heads in the form of blocks supported by each opposing end of the tubes and . The blocks are illustratively received within cooperating openings formed within corners A B A and B to securely hold the tubes and in the container . Internal threads are illustratively formed within each block to couple for example to a mounting support apparatus. In alternative embodiments other couplers may be used to secure tubes and within container . For example the opposing ends of tubes and may include external threads engaging threaded fittings supported by the corners A B A and B to securely hold the tubes and in the container .

Each initiation tube and is illustratively formed of aligned portions A B and A B respectively and joined together by the coupling member . The aligned portions A B and A B and coupling member may be useful to aid mounting of tubes and in the container and to provide structural support to the thin walled tubes and . The number of aligned portions A B and A B the initiation tubes and may vary based upon the dimensions of the container and the required structural support required for the tubes and to extend across the internal chamber .

Irrespective of the exact configuration of the initiation tubes and each tube and has a relatively large longitudinally extending internal duct e.g. having a inner diameter of approximately 0.275 inches configured to receive a number of the demolition initiators for priming of the main charge. As detailed above the demolition initiators can be individual ones of or can include combinations of detonating cords blasting caps and other standard detonators quickly installed by the user to reliably initiate the main charge in the chamber . The main charge is positioned in the chamber is in close abutting and intimate contact along the length of the respective initiation tube and where the tube extends through the chamber in order to assure demolition of the main charge .

As shown in the detonating cord may extend longitudinally through the duct of either or both initiation tubes . The detonating cord extends beyond opposing open ends of the respective tube which are concentrically received within the openings of opposing corners A B A B in order to facilitate field assembly and the stringing together of multiple demolition charge systems .

As with initiation tube due to the relatively weak explosive energy of the detonating cord the initiation tubes are thin walled. In portion A of tube is illustrated. It should be noted that portions A B and B are substantially identical to portion A. Portion A of tube includes a tube wall including at least a portion of which is thin enough to permit the explosive force from the detonating cord to transmit sufficient energy to the main charge to cause detonation thereof. More particularly tube wall includes a first portion with a first wall thickness t and a second portion in the form of slots with a second wall thickness t. The slots are diametrically opposed and extending axially along a majority of the length of the tube wall . The second wall thickness t is illustratively less than 0.050 inches. While a thickness t of 0.030 inches provides improved detonation reliability the illustrative embodiment slot has a thickness t of about 0.020 inches 0.003 inches tolerance for event greater detonation reliability. In order to provide adequate structural support for the tube the first portion illustratively has a wall thickness t of about 0.030 inches 0.0003 inches tolerance .

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

