---

title: Media codec devices providing universality for encoded signal origination and decoded signal distribution
abstract: Media codec devices obtain and decode media signals and then distribute them to downstream devices. The media codec devices may obtain media signals from multiple service providers or other sources, including protected media signals. The media codec devices may be decoupled from the source of the media signals by maintaining a managed collection of decoder information including decoder keys, decryption algorithms, and codecs within a memory of a decoder, where such decoder information may be updated by adding new decoder information and/or removing existing decoder information to add or lose service providers while the media codec device is in the possession of the consumer. The media codec device may be decoupled from playback devices at the premise of the consumer by utilizing media transfer devices that receive decoded media signals from the media codec device and transfer them for ultimate delivery to playback devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08208534&OS=08208534&RS=08208534
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 08208534
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081023
---
Embodiments are related to the provisioning of digital media services. More particularly embodiments are related to providing for universal signal origination and universal signal distribution.

The digital distribution of media signals such as media streams over the Internet is becoming commonplace. Audio and video streams are widely available on the Internet from many different sources. The audio and video streams are typically encoded in a standard format such as Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG standards MPEG 2 and MPEG 4. Such encoding provides various benefits such as to compress the amount of data that is included in the stream to provide an adequate playback quality at the user device. The user device decodes the incoming streams by applying a codec available to the user device.

The encoding and decoding process may involve encryption of the encoded data such that the decoding process may occur only if a decoder key and a corresponding decryption algorithm are available at the end user device. Thus merely having the appropriate codec does not grant automatic access to the media stream content. Typically a subscription to a service provider allows for possession of the appropriate decoder key and decryption algorithm for media streams for that service provider. Service providers are cautious regarding distribution of such decoder keys and decryption algorithms so as to protect against unlawful access to the media content.

In some cases a service provider may take a relatively relaxed approach to distribution of content. Here the service provider may allow a user s computer device to employ software based decoding where the decoder key and decryption algorithm and in some cases even the codecs themselves are compiled into a software package that the user may load onto the user s computer under a single machine license. The software may require an activation which may render the software as nonfunctional on any other computer to prevent multiple users from benefitting from the same software package license. That software package must be present and must be used when viewing content sourced from that corresponding service provider. If media content from multiple service providers that protect their media is desired then multiple software packages must be present in such cases.

In other cases a service provider may take a stricter approach to distribution of content. Here the service provider may require one or more service provider specific devices or hardware items such as a set top box that includes hardware based codecs decryption algorithms and decoder keys. Without such hardware the media streams are unavailable and such hardware may cost a significant amount. Furthermore as codecs decryption algorithms decoder keys device connectivity and other technologically related aspects of obtaining the media content change the hardware may become obsolete and require recurring replacement.

In addition to the issues with obtaining media streams from service providers who protect their media content distributing the media to a desirable place to enjoy it within the user premise also raises issues. While the downloaded media streams may be enjoyable in some cases on the user s download device such as a computer the user may prefer to enjoy such audio and video streams on other playback devices including a regular television or a large screen home theater system. While there are some existing systems that may assist the user in distributing the media stream from a computer to another playback device such as a television or large screen home theater such existing systems have many drawbacks. For instance a local data network may be used to transmit the media and simultaneous network usage and inherent limitations on bandwidth of the local data network may cause issues with media delivery. Such problems are further magnified where notoriously unreliable wireless local networking is employed.

Additional issues arise when considering the portability of obtaining such media streams and delivering them to desirable places for playback. In some instances the device used to obtain and decode the media streams is tied to a given physical location and may not function elsewhere. In other instances the device to obtain and decode a media stream may function at different physical locations but the device itself may be installed within an infrastructure for receiving signals and or for distributing them at the premise. This infrastructure such as connectivity to data networking components or connectivity to downstream playback components via a variety of cables makes attempting to physically transfer the device an overly burdensome chore.

As can be seen from the non exhaustive set of factors discussed above there are many issues associated with obtaining digital media content. Likewise there are many issues associated with locally distributing digital media content for playback.

Embodiments disclosed herein address issues such as these and others by providing a more universal approach to obtaining digital media content. Embodiments disclosed herein also address issues such as these and others by providing a more universal approach to distributing such digital media content once it has been obtained.

Embodiments include methods of providing media services. The methods involve receiving and storing at least one decoder key for each service provider providing media signals to a media codec device within a modifiable memory of a hardware based decoder of the media codec device. The method further involves receiving protected media signals at the media codec device from at least one service provider. Each of the received protected media signals is decoded at the media codec device using the at least one hardware based decoder and the at least one decoder key applicable to the protected media signal.

Embodiments include computer readable media that contain instructions for providing media services. The instructions when implemented at a media codec device result in acts such as receiving and storing at least one decoder key for each service provider providing media signals to the media codec device within a modifiable memory of a hardware based decoder of the media codec device. The acts may further include receiving protected media signals at the media codec device from at least one service provider and decoding each of the received protected media signals at the media codec device using the at least one hardware based decoder and the at least one decoder key applicable to the protected media signal.

Embodiments provide a media codec device that includes at least one input port that receives protected and encoded media signals from a plurality of service providers. The media codec device further includes a hardware based decoder supporting a plurality of codecs and including a modifiable memory that stores at least one decoder key for each service provider the hardware based decoder applying the corresponding decoder key to each media signal to be decoded. The media codec device further includes at least one output port that outputs the decoded media signal.

Embodiments include a method of providing media services that involves receiving media signals at a media codec device from at least a first and a second service provider the media codec device including at least one hardware based decoder applicable to the media signals from the first and the second service providers. The method further involves decoding each of the received media signals at the media codec device using the at least one hardware based decoder and determining within the media codec device which output of the media codec device to direct the decoded media signals of the first and second service providers. The method further involves at a first point in time and based on determining where to direct the decoded media signals directing the decoded media signal from the first service provider to a first output of the media codec device while directing the decoded media signal from the second service provider to a second output of the media codec device. Additionally the method involves at a second point in time and based on determining where to direct the decoded media signals directing the decoded media signal from the first service provider to the second output of the media codec device while directing the decoded media signal from the second service provider to the first output of the media codec device.

Embodiments include a method of delivering media that involves receiving a control signal from a remote control that selects a media signal and that identifies a carrier channel corresponding to the remote control. The method further involves injecting the control signal onto a distribution medium and receiving the control signal from the distribution medium. The method further involves obtaining the selected media signal at a media codec device based upon receiving the control signal from the distribution medium. Additionally the method involves decoding the obtained media to produce a decoded media signal at the media codec device and injecting the decoded media signal onto the identified carrier channel of the distribution medium.

Embodiments include a media codec system for providing media services. The media codec system includes a media codec device having an input that receives media signals from at least one service provider the media codec device including at least one hardware based decoder applicable to the media signals to decode each of the received protected media signals and wherein the media codec device outputs each decoded media signal. The media codec system further includes a first housing establishing a user separable physical connection to the media codec device. The media codec system also includes at least one media transfer unit establishing a physical connection to the first housing and establishing a separable electrical connection to the media codec device that separates upon separation of the media codec device from the physical connection to the first housing. The at least one media transfer unit has an input that receives the decoded media signal from the media codec device via the electrical connection and an output that distributes the decoded media signal to a first display device.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Embodiments provide for obtaining media signals decoding them and distributing them for playback to users. Certain embodiments provide for obtaining media signals from a variety of sources including protected media signals from a variety of sources decoding them and distributing them. Certain embodiments provide for the distribution of decoded media signals being received simultaneously to corresponding display devices where such media signals have been requested. Certain embodiments provide for distribution mediums being used for media signal delivery while also being used to deliver control signals pertinent to the media signal being delivered. Certain embodiments further provide for the portability of media services from one physical location to another.

According to various embodiments the media codec device which is discussed in more detail below with reference to may be present as a device that consolidates much of the media services that a user may wish to obtain for the premise by being decoupled from the service provider or other origination of the media signals and hence be a universal decoding device. For instance the media codec device may have the capability to decode media signals from any number of service providers rather than being specific to a single service provider. As discussed below the media codec device may maintain a collection of codecs decryption algorithms and decoder keys as may be needed to obtain and decode media services from any number of service providers that the user may wish to access.

By decoupling the media codec device from the sources of the media signals the user gains the benefit of not having to install software for each service provider on a computer and does not have to invest in service provider specific hardware. Thus the user is provided with a sense of freedom in terms of obtaining media services from whatever service providers allow for media codec devices such as the media codec device to decode their media signals and in terms of switching service providers without the need to return hardware or have hardware that has been purchased but is no longer in use.

According to various embodiments the media codec device may further consolidate distribution of media services such that the one media codec device may handle distributing the media signals to many if not all of the playback devices within the user premise. The media codec device may accomplish such consolidated distribution by handling multiple media streams simultaneously. Furthermore the media codec device may accomplish the consolidated distribution by being physically decoupled from the distribution medium used for any particular media signal being delivered. For instance one television may utilize a coaxial cable to receive its media signals on a television channel while another television may utilize an over the air localcast to receive its media signals on a television channel while yet another television may utilize a direct digital connection to receive its media signals. The media codec device by being decoupled from such distribution mediums may distribute the media signals to standardized output connections such that add on devices referred to herein as media transfer units may then couple to the available distribution mediums without requiring the media codec device to manage such delivery.

By decoupling the media codec device from the distribution mediums used to deliver the media signals to the playback devices the media codec device is given a degree of future proofing while also gaining the ability to work with whatever distribution infrastructures may already be present at the user premise. For instance the user premise may be wired with coaxial cable already and the media codec device outputs media signals that can be injected onto the coaxial cable. Should the same or another media codec device be placed into a user premise that lacks coaxial cabling or if a playback device is located out of reach of the coaxial cabling then the media codec device s output may additionally or instead be localcasted over the air. Should a technological advancement bring about yet another distribution medium such as fiber optic lines in the premise then the media codec device s output may injected onto the fiber optic lines for delivery to the playback devices.

Thus the media codec device may be a long lasting hardware investment by the user. The media codec device may remain as a source of media services within the premise during switches or additions of service providers and also during changes to the mechanisms for delivering media signals to playback devices. In some embodiments the media codec device may provide such decoupling in a manner that also facilitates the transporting of the media services provided by the media codec device from one physical location to another such that the user may wish to keep the same access to media services regardless of whether at home at a second home on vacation and so forth.

Returning to in this example the media codec device may be connected to a host device . The host device may be of various forms such as a personal computer a server computer a network gateway and the like. The host device may provide data connectivity and or power to the media codec device . For instance the media codec device may utilize a standardized connection such as a universal serial bus USB connection to the host where the USB connection provides operating power from the host to the media codec device and also provides high speed data connectivity for obtaining multiple encoded media signals from one or more sources.

In some alternative embodiments the media codec device may include its own networking capabilities to directly interface to a local or wide area network using network protocols such as transport control protocol internet protocol Ethernet and the like and may also have its own dedicated power connections. Such alternative networking capabilities are illustrated by the broken lines leading to remote network sources of media content on a wide area network such as the Internet and or local media sources on a local area network at the user premise.

The remote media sources may include sources on the data networks such as Internet based resources for streaming audio and or video. Such sources of media may provide encoded media signals either as a free service or under a subscription where the encoded media may use encryption protection. Data network delivery of the encoded media signals is becoming commonplace not only for traditional Internet based service providers but also for cable and satellite television providers who also may offer their content over such data network connections. Furthermore the remote media sources may be cable satellite or other providers using other wide area distribution techniques. For instance the host may interface to the upstream cable network to a satellite dish or to other proprietary mediums to obtain carrier signals extract the encoded media signals from the carrier signals and pass the encoded media signals through to the media codec device .

The local media sources may include various devices on the user premise such as local digital video recorders handheld video cameras security cameras and the like. The encoded media signals being produced by these sources of media content may be available through the host or in the alternative through a direct connection to the media codec device just as the encoded media signals originating from service providers who operate the remote sources .

The media codec device receives a request from a user within the user premise to obtain a particular media signal. This request may be provided to the media codec device by the user entering commands on a remote control and . These commands are then provided to the media codec device in one of several ways.

In the case of the remote controls that have a short range such as infrared remote signals the media codec device and any control receiving units connected to the media codec device may be located distantly from the location within the user premise where the users and the remotes and are located. The short range command signals do not travel to the location of the media codec device so these command signals may instead be picked up by control transmitting units . These control transmitting units are nearby the playback devices such as display devices being viewed by the users operating the remote controls . These control transmitting units are also in range of the remotes and receive the command signals of the remotes respectively.

The control transmitting units then send the command signal albeit in a different format than the original short range format to the control receiver unit . The control transmitting units may utilize a relatively long range wireless transmission such as a radio frequency carrier. As another example the control transmitting units may utilize a reverse direction coax injection with an out of band carrier or on an unused in band carrier. Such implementations are discussed below in more detail.

In some cases the remote may already be a long range capable remote such as utilizing a radio frequency transmission or may already be in close proximity to the media codec device and the control receiving unit connected thereto. In either case the remote may communicate directly with the control receiving unit rather than relying upon the control transmitting unit .

The control receiving units receive the command signals and then convert the command signals to control data that is provided to an input port of the media codec device . In one example the media codec device may be provided with logic to recognize control data of a variety of conventions so as to be responsive to control data that may be of different varieties. For instance the control data produced by the remote to switch to a new media signal may be different control data than that produced by the remote . In another example the control receiving units may perform a standardization of control data by having logic to convert control data from any of the remotes and to control data that is recognized by the media codec device .

Upon receiving control data the media codec device accesses the appropriate source as specified by the request. For instance the availability of media signals may be offered in terms of a list that may be generated for display by the media codec device where the user may use the arrow and select keys of a remote channel up down buttons of the remote and so forth to make selections from the list of available media signals. The key selections on the remote based on knowledge of where the pointer is in the list of available media signals provides the media codec device with the information necessary to determine which media signal has been selected. Furthermore for embodiments where multiple sources are available the information further indicates which source provides the media signal being requested such that the media codec device can generate an upstream request for that media signal from the appropriate source such as from a particular service provider.

Upon obtaining the requested media signal from the appropriate source the media codec device may further act upon the control data to provide the requested media signal to the playback device or a playback device that corresponds to the remote or that sent the request. As is discussed in detail below the media codec device may maintain awareness of the relationship of the remotes and to media signal outputs of the media codec device so that the correct output is chosen for a given media signal.

The requested media signals that have been obtained by the media codec device are decoded prior to distribution. The decoding process involves applying a proper codec to the encoded media signal to achieve the data of the original media signal prior to encoding. The negotiation between the media codec device and the source may inform the media codec device of the proper codec to employ or to the extent the given source employs the same encoding for all media signals then the proper codec may be mapped in memory of the media codec device for that source. Furthermore the media signal itself may identify the proper codec such as by using unencoded headers that contain such information.

For protected media signals such as those from service providers that provide media content on a subscription or a pay per view basis the media codec device may decrypt the protected media signal as part of the decoding process. In most instances the encoded media signal is encrypted such that the media codec device decrypts the media signal prior to employing the proper codec. However in some instances the encoded media signal may not be decrypted but the decoded media signal may be encrypted. In that case the media codec device may apply the codec first and then decrypt the decoded information to complete the decoding process. The media codec device may determine whether to decrypt before or after the application of the codec either by negotiation mapping in memory or by information carried by the media signal itself.

The decryption process may involve both a decryption algorithm and a decoder key. Either or both may be unique to each source of protected media content and or unique to this consumer. Furthermore different media signals of the same source may have different decryption algorithms and or decoder keys. The media codec device maintains those decryption algorithms and decoder keys in a memory space which is discussed further below with reference to .

In some embodiments the decryption algorithm and or decoder keys are maintained within a memory space of the hardware decoder and they may be isolated by the hardware decoder from external access. In this manner the confidential nature of the decryption algorithm and or the decoder key can be maintained even in a media codec device that is not service provider specific and that is not limited to protected media signals from a single service provider. Thus service providers usually unwilling to allow access to their content unless their specific hardware platform is being used to decode the media signals may allow such a media codec device to obtain decode and distribute their media signals. This frees the user from being required to maintain service provider specific hardware and likewise frees the service provider from being required to offer such hardware.

As discussed below the decryption algorithms and decoder keys maintained in the memory space of the media codec device even if within a modifiable memory space of a hardware based decoder may be imported into and or deleted from such memory space while the media codec device is in the possession of the user. The decryption algorithms and or decoder keys may be transferred to the media codec device from a remote source such as the source of the media content for which the decryption algorithms and decoder keys are relevant or from a third party source that acts as a decryption algorithms and or decoder key broker. The transfer may also be encoded including encrypting the encoded data so that the decryption algorithms and or decoder keys are not vulnerable during transport.

Returning to the situation where the requested media signal has been obtained and decoded the media codec device then distributes the decoded media signal to the appropriate playback device or . The distribution of the decoded media signal may occur in various manners. Furthermore one or more media transfer units may be present in some embodiments to deliver the media signals to the various locations throughout the premise where such locations may be distantly located from the media codec device .

For instance the media codec device may have a data connection to the media transfer unit that injects a decoded media signal onto a coaxial cable at the premise. The media signal may be injected in one or more of various standard formats such as an analog National Television System Committee NTSC signal on a carrier channel or as a digital Advanced Television System Committee ATSC signal on a carrier channel or as another signal type capable of transfer on a coaxial cable. As another example the media codec device may have a data connection to the media transfer unit that localcasts a media signal over the air such as by using a low power Very High Frequency VHF and or Ultra High Frequency UHF transmission. The media signal may be localcast as one or more of various formats such as an analog NTSC signal on a carrier channel or as a digital ATSC signal on a carrier channel or as another signal type capable of transfer over the air.

The media transfer unit as well as other media transfer units discussed herein may re encode the data of the media signal from the media codec device where the transfer process of the media signal to the playback devices relies on encoded data. The encoding may be entirely different than the encoding of the media signal being received by the media codec device . In this case the down stream devices such as playback devices and or a media display unit which is discussed in further detail below have the capability to decode that encoding format used by the media transfer unit .

In the case of NTSC ATSC or other signals provided over coax or by localcast the playback device may have the ability to directly receive such signals using a built in tuner and decode such signals when in an encoded digital format. Thus the playback device may tune to the channel that the media signal of choice is being sent over to directly receive the media signal. As discussed below the remote which is the one known by the user to correspond to the playback device may have an identification that is mapped by the media codec device to a given media transfer unit such as the media transfer unit that is using a carrier channel that the playback device is set to receive. Thus according to exemplary embodiments use of the remote control to select or control a media signal results in the media signal being provided to the corresponding playback device .

Other types of the media transfer units may also be present. In some embodiments the media transfer units may be present even when a playback device is in relatively close proximity to the media codec device . For instance the given playback device may not have a data input compatible with a data output of the media codec device such that a direct connection of the media codec device to the playback device is not possible. In that case the media transfer unit may be present to adapt the data output by the media codec device to a format compatible with an input of the playback device . For instance the playback device may have only analog inputs and the media transfer unit may adapt the data output of the media codec device into a proper analog format.

Some embodiments of the media codec device may also provide direct connections between the media codec device and playback devices such as the playback device within a connectable range to the media codec device . For instance the data output of the media codec device may comply with a data standard for media delivery that is used by inputs of the playback device . One example is the High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI for audio and video. Another example may be a Digital Visual Interface in digital mode DVI D for video data and or a Sony Philips Digital Interface S PDIF for audio data.

In some situations the media transfer unit may provide the media signal in a manner that is incompatible with the playback device . For example the media transfer unit may provide a coaxial injection or a localcast using the ATSC standard. The playback device may be capable of tuning only analog cable or over the air channels or otherwise receiving an analog signal. In that case the media display unit may be used at the playback device to receive the media signal from the media transfer unit and then adapt the media signal for final delivery to the playback device . As an example the media display unit may tune to an appropriate carrier channel used by the media transfer unit convert the ATSC media signal extracted from the carrier channel to an analog NTSC signal and output the analog NTSC signal to the playback device on the same or a different carrier channel or as a baseband analog signal.

In addition to the media transfer units that deliver media signals from the media codec device to the playback devices a media transfer unit may also be present at the user premise. This media transfer unit may be present to provide connectivity between the local source of media signals and the media codec device rather than relying on connectivity through the host . The media transfer unit may be present to adapt media signals from the local source to a data format that may be received by the media codec device . For example the media transfer unit may obtain an analog media signal and encode the analog media signal into a digital format that the media codec device can decode and distribute. Where the local media source has a digital output compatible with the media codec device and in connectable range of the media codec device then a direct connection may be used instead.

Within the decoder there may also be modifiable memory space that is allocated for on board decryption algorithms . These decryption algorithms may be specific to each source service provider that the media codec device draws upon for access to media content. As sources service providers are added or discarded by the user the decryption algorithms may be imported into or deleted from the allocated memory space. As discussed below the transfer of the decryption algorithms to be imported and the instruction to delete already stored ones may be done using an encrypted encoding where a secret decryption algorithm and decoder key specifically for the addition or removal of a source service provider decryption algorithm are used so as to secure the decryption algorithms during transit. Furthermore as the decryption aspect of the decoding may be done as an entirely internal process of a hardware based decoder the confidential and secure nature of decryption algorithms being employed may be preserved.

Within the decoder there may also be modifiable memory space that is allocated for on board decoder keys . These decoder keys may also be specific to each source service provider that the media codec device draws upon for access to media content. As sources service providers are added or discarded by the user the decoder keys may also be imported into or deleted from the allocated memory space. As discussed below the transfer of the decoder keys to be imported and the instruction to delete already stored ones may be done using an encrypted encoding where a secret decryption algorithm and decoder key specifically for the addition or removal of a source service provider decoder key are used so as to secure the decoder keys during transit. Furthermore as the decryption aspect of the decoding may be done as an entirely internal process of a hardware based decoder the confidential and secure nature of decoder keys being employed may be preserved.

The media codec device may further include other components to handle the general operation. For example a processor may be present to implement an on board real time operation system RTOS . In doing so the processor may establish communications through a data bus or other data interconnections between input ports output ports the decoder operating memory and any additional modules such as an application programming interface module . While both input ports and output ports are shown separately it will be appreciated that some ports may be present that are bi directional such as a data network connection like Ethernet a USB connection and the like.

The processor may perform various logical operations to provide the functions of the media codec device including interpreting commands received from remotes submitting requests on a data network to obtain media signals and activating the decoder relative to any given media signal being received. Furthermore the processor may direct any decoded media signals output by the decoder to a respective output that leads to a media transfer unit or a directly connected playback device.

The processor may implement APIs from the API module including stream APIs and control APIs . The stream APIs provide the ability for the processor to properly route a request to a source properly route a decoded media signal to a destination and to apply any stream quality or effects manipulation that may be necessary to achieve the output desired by the user. For instance upon the decoder outputting the decoded media stream the processor may act on the decoded media stream to combine multiple streams into a single media signal to produce an on screen picture by picture effect. The processor may manipulate the quality of the media signal from one resolution to another scaled resolution and or produce any related effects such as to provide on screen guides and program metadata.

The processor may implement the control APIs to provide for receiving selections from an on screen guide select which source is being used to obtain a given media signal to read and implement any digital rights management DRM data that may be embedded within the media signals being received and so forth.

The processor the memory and decoder are all examples of computer readable media. Computer readable media may store instructions that when performed implement various logical operations. Such computer readable media may include various storage media including electronic magnetic and optical storage. Computer readable media may also include communications media such as wired and wireless connections used to transfer instructions or send and receive other data messages.

A local source may be connected via a cable to a port . The port may be bi directional so that media can be received from the local source or sent to the local source for storage while control signals may also be sent to the local source from the media codec device . A USB port would be one example of such a port .

A control receiver unit may be connected to a designated port . Where the control receiver unit is for the sole purpose of providing control signals to the media codec device the port may be a unidirectional input port if so desired. However where status or other informational signals may be passed to the media codec device from the control receiving unit then bi directional ports are used.

Media transfer units are connected to output ports respectively. Where the media transfer units are for the sole purpose of distributing media signals to the playback devices the ports may be unidirectional output ports if so desired. Where the media transfer units also transfer media to the media codec device or transfer status or other informational signals then bi directional ports are used.

The media codec device may also utilize ports that directly connect to a playback device in connectable range. Such ports may be unidirectional where only media signals are being transferred such as for S PDIF signals. However such ports may be bi directional where information is exchanged as in the case of HDMI connectivity.

While shows a plurality of ports for various purposes it will be appreciated that a single high speed port may be utilized to connect to a hub that connects to each individual cable or dongle rather than each directly connecting to the media codec device . Using a hub allows for easier portability of the media codec device between locations as each cable or dongle need not be disconnected but instead merely the connection of the media codec device to the hub is disconnected.

When the user wishes to use the media codec device to obtain media content at the first location the user connects the media codec device to the hub by interconnecting a bi directional hub connector to matching hub connector . This connection may use a standard high speed device to device connection such as USB v2 or higher an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 connection Ethernet or similar connection type. According to some embodiments the physical and electrical connections between the connector of the media codec device and the connector of the hub housing may be brought about by the user using a cable. In other embodiments the connector of the media codec device may be a mate to the connector of the hub housing so that the media codec device is a plug in to the hub housing .

Upon being connected in this manner the media codec device then gains access to the various peripheral devices connected to the hub . In the example shown the hub maintains connections to power data of the host via connector and to a directly connected playback device via a connector . The hub of this example further maintains connections to a control receiving unit via a connector to a media transfer unit via a connector and to a local source via a connector . It will be appreciated that a different number of peripherals and corresponding ports may be present for such a hub depending upon the needs of the user.

When the user travels to the second location the user may wish to bring along the media services that the user enjoys when at home. In some embodiments the services being subscribed to by the user may have no location restriction on them other than the constraint that a media codec device equipped with the proper codecs decryption algorithms and decoder keys be present. In that case the user may move the media codec device to the second location to enjoy the same media services there without having to pay separately for media services for both locations.

When present at the second location the user may interconnect the port to a port of the hub housing to provide the physical and electrical connectivity. Upon doing so the media codec device gains access to each of the ports and the connected peripherals at the second location. In the example shown the hub maintains connections to power data of the second location s host via a connector and to a directly connected playback device via a connector . The hub of this example further maintains connections to a control receiving unit via connector to a first media transfer unit via a connector to a second media transfer unit via a connector and to a local source via a connector .

For example this media transfer unit may be a coax injector and according to various embodiments may inject either or both of NTSC and ATSC signals or other signals on existing coaxial cabling within the user premise. Furthermore this media transfer unit may utilize a fixed carrier channel such as in the VHF or UHF band or may offer any carrier channel within a designated band that is available on the coaxial cable. For ATSC signals the media transfer unit may transmit on any or all of the six subchannels of any given carrier channel. In such examples the output device is a coaxial transmitter that connects directly to the coaxial cabling within the premise.

As another example this media transfer unit may be a localcast device. The media transfer unit may utilize a fixed over the air carrier channel such as in the VHF or UHF band or may offer any carrier channel within a designated band that is available for low power over the air transmission. As with the coax injector example the various embodiments of the localcasting media transfer unit may also transmit NTSC ATSC or both and may transmit on any of the 6 ATSC subchannels of a carrier channel. In such examples the output device is an over the air transmitter antenna that directly outputs wireless radio frequency waves.

Other examples of the media transfer unit are also applicable. For instance the media transfer unit may employ signaling over existing telephone network or power lines within a user premise to distribute media signals on carrier channels.

For instance the module may convert ATSC signals to NTSC signals. As another example the media display unit may serve as an adapter between a playback device such as the playback device in close proximity to the media codec device by directly interfacing to a digital output of the media codec device e.g. HDMI and the module converts such media signal data to an ATSC or NTSC signal so long as a copy protection flag of the media signal data allows such conversion.

A control signal adaption module then formats the control data signal into a format compatible with the media codec device . For instance the module may convert a proprietary control data scheme being output by a remote control into a standardized control data scheme recognized by the media codec device for embodiments where the media codec device does not recognize such proprietary control data schemes of the remote controls via its control APIs. As another example either the input module or the adaption module may extract the control data from the control data signal being received by the input module where the control data signal uses a carrier wave.

Once control data that is compatible with the media codec device has been achieved this control data is then presented to an input port of the media codec device via an output module . As discussed above this could be any number of data connections such as USB Ethernet or IEEE 1394.

The media transfer unit may have a separate media signal input for each channel to be localcast or may have a single data input with logic that reads an identifier of the particular localcast channel to be used for a given media signal. Likewise the media codec device may have a separate media signal output for each media signal input of the media transfer unit or may define outputs logically by tagging media signals being output with different identifiers corresponding to the localcast channels to be used by the media transfer unit for the media signals.

The media codec device receives control signals via a control receiving unit . The control receiving unit of this example may receive signals of various types such as Bluetooth protocol signals Wi Fi signals IR signals and or RF signals that contain remote control data. The control receiving unit extracts the control data from such received signals and provides such remote control data to the media codec device for implementation. As discussed above in some embodiments the control receiving unit may include the capability of modifying the remote control data from one format that is incompatible with the media codec device to another format that is compatible.

The media signals that are being localcast may be tuned in directly by an OTA capable playback device such as a display device . The display device may be a television that is capable of receiving NTSC signals on a carrier channel. Likewise the display device may be a digital OTA capable television that receives ATSC signals on a carrier channel or sub channel. The user tunes the playback device to an OTA channel that is assigned to this playback device and to a corresponding remote control being used to control the media signals being displayed.

The remote control is present in proximity to the playback device . In the example shown the remote control uses line of sight IR signaling which limits the range of the remote control inside of a room where objects and walls block the signal. The media codec device may be located at a distance from the IR remote control such as in another room of the same building and be out of range of the IR remote control .

To allow the IR remote control to control the media signals on the OTA channel being viewed on the playback device a control transmitting unit is present. This control transmitting unit picks up the remote control signals which may include an identifier ID of the remote control or even an ID of the control transmitting unit in lieu of an ID of the remote control and transmits those using a longer range signal. For instance the control transmitting unit may employ the Bluetooth protocol for medium distances such as directly to the adjacent room or Wi Fi or RF signals to reach greater distances. The RF signals being sent may fall within the same carrier medium frequency bands of the OTA media signals being sent by the media transfer unit such that the media signals and the control signals share a common distribution medium.

The ID being included in the control signals is received by the media codec device . The media codec device uses this ID to determine which media signal output needs some change being requested by the control signals. For instance the user of the playback device may choose to display a guide of the available television programs on other channels or streams that the media codec device is capable of receiving and distributing. This request for a guide display is tagged with the ID of the remote or an OD of the control transmitting unit in lieu of the remote ID. The media codec device then displays the guide as an effect on a media signal being sent out on an output that is known to be localcasted by the media transfer unit on the OTA channel tuned to by the playback device . Thus the playback device displays the requested guide.

A display device may be incapable of receiving OTA signals but the user may wish to view localcast media signals on the display device and it may be assigned an OTA channel to allow it to have its media signals differ from those being viewed on the display unit . A media display unit in this example an OTA receiver may be included to receive the localcast OTA signals on behalf of the display device . The media display unit may be capable of receiving NTSC signals on a carrier channel. Likewise the media display unit may be a digital OTA capable tuner that receives ATSC signals on a carrier channel or sub channel. The user tunes the media display unit to an OTA channel that is assigned to this playback device and to a corresponding remote control being used to control the media signals being displayed.

The remote control is present in proximity to the playback device . In the example shown the remote control uses a longer range signaling such as Bluetooth signaling Wi Fi signaling or RF signaling. So even though the media codec device may be located at a distance from the remote control such as in another room of the same building the media codec device via its control receiving unit may still be in range of the remote control such that a control transmitting unit is not needed in proximity to the playback device . As with the control transmitting unit discussed above the RF signals being sent by an embodiment of the remote control may fall within the same carrier medium frequency bands of the OTA media signals being sent by the media transfer unit such that the media signals and the control signals related to the playback device also share a common distribution medium.

The control receiving unit picks up the remote control signals from the remote control which may include an ID of the remote control . The ID being included in the control signals is received by the media codec device . The media codec device uses this ID to determine which media signal output needs some change being requested by the control signals of the remote control . The media codec device then provides the requested change on a media signal being sent out on an output that is known to be localcasted by the media transfer unit on the OTA channel tuned to by the display unit which is a different OTA channel than that assigned to the other playback device . Thus this playback device displays the requested change.

The media codec device utilizes a media transfer unit which in this example is a coaxial injector unit. According to various embodiments this media transfer unit may inject media signals on a single NTSC cable channel on multiple NTSC cable channels on a single ATSC channel or sub channel on multiple ATSC channels or sub channels or on both NTSC and ATSC channels and sub channels. The media codec device provides as many media signal data streams as the media transfer unit is capable of injecting at a given time.

The media transfer unit may have a separate media signal input for each channel to be injected or may have a single data input with logic that reads an identifier of the particular injection channel to be used for a given media signal. Likewise the media codec device may have a separate media signal output for each media signal input of the media transfer unit or may define outputs logically by tagging media signals being output with different identifiers corresponding to the injection channels to be used by the media transfer unit for the media signals.

In addition to injecting media signals a power injector may be present to inject electrical power onto the coaxial cable for consumption by other devices utilizing the coaxial cable for signaling. For instance one or more control transmitting units may be present and may utilize the coaxial cable to direct control signals back to a control receiving unit while receiving power through the coaxial cable . As other examples combined function devices may be present such as control transmitting media display units that receive media signals and send control signals while also receiving power through the coaxial cable . In addition to powering such remotely located devices the media transfer units and control receiving units may also be connected to the coaxial cable and may also receive operating power through the coaxial cable .

In the example shown a display device that is coaxial cable capable receives media signals directly from the media transfer unit by being tuned to the cable channel that is assigned to it. For example the display device may have an on board cable tuner for NTSC and or ATSC signals. Thus the display device displays whatever media signals are injected onto that cable channel assigned to it. The control transmitting unit is present and connected in line on the coaxial cable acting as a throughput for media signals but providing control signal injection for control signals received from a remote control . In this case the remote control is an IR remote or other short range remote incapable of transmitting signals that reach the control receiving unit . An ID of the remote control or an ID of the control transmitting unit in lieu of an ID of the remote control is provided with any control signals being injected.

The media codec device upon receiving any control signals that have first been received by the control receiving unit via the coaxial cable acts upon the control signals to provide a requested change to the media signal. This media signal is provided to the media transfer unit for injection on the cable channel that is assigned to the display device so that the display device ultimately displays the change that has been requested.

A display device that may not be coaxial cable capable is connected via a cable other than a coaxial cable to a combined control transmitting media display unit . The connection between the display device and the unit may be via an analog connection such as an S video connection a composite video connection a component video connection a Video Graphics Array VGA connection or an analog DVI connection. The connection could also be a digital one such as a DVI D or an HDMI connection.

The combined function unit allows a single in line coaxial device to receive injected media signals and convert them for output to the display device while also injecting control signals received from a remote control onto the same coaxial cable . It will be appreciated that two in line coaxial devices each providing a single function could be used in place of the combined function unit .

Like that discussed above for remote control the remote control may submit an ID or the control transmitting portion of unit may submit an ID in lieu of the remote control along with the control signal. The media codec device may then act on the control signal by applying the requested change to the media signal that is known to be injected on the cable channel assigned to the display device . Thus the display device displays the media signal including the change that has been requested.

A display device may be coaxial cable capable is connected directly to the coaxial cable . In this example the display device includes a cable tuner that is tuned to whichever cable channel is assigned to it. A remote control is used to request changes to whatever media signal is being injected on the cable channel assigned to the display device . The remote control may be a longer range remote that produces control signals including an ID that can be obtained by the control receiving unit for embodiments where the control receiving unit can receive such control signals from wireless transmissions.

Alternatively the remote control may submit its signals directly to the display device . The display device may have the capability to inject the received control signals onto the coaxial cable. The injected control signals may include the ID of the remote control or an ID of the display device in lieu of an ID of the remote control . The media codec device may then apply the requested changes to whichever media signal is known to be injected on the cable channel assigned to the display device .

A display device may be incapable of receiving coaxial cable signals like display device . Similarly a combined function unit such as the control transmitting media display unit may be present to receive the injected media signals and to inject control signals or two separate in line single function units may be used. A remote control may be used to transmit control signals to the combined function unit where they are injected toward the control receiving unit and hence the media codec device . As with the other cases an ID of the remote control or an ID of the combined function unit in lieu of the ID of the remote control are sent upstream to the media codec device so that the proper media signal receives the requested change.

As with the display device the cable connection between the combined function unit and the display device may be of various forms depending upon inputs of the display device . For instance if the display device accepts digital signals then the cable may provide HDMI or DVI D connectivity. If the display device accepts analog connections then the cable may provide composite component S video and or VGA signals.

As an alternative to or in addition to using the coaxial cable the media codec device may rely upon an alternative media transfer unit that provides for injection on an alternative wiring such as the cabling . For instance the media transfer unit may inject onto telephone lines power lines and or network lines that may be present at the user premise. The media transfer unit may transmit the media signals on a carrier channel that has a frequency that is out of band relative to the typical signals that may be present on the alternative wiring .

In addition to using the alternative wiring as a distribution medium for media signals an alternative control receiving unit may receive controls signals that have been injected onto the alternative wiring . The control receiving unit then provides those control signals to the media codec device .

Furthermore for alternative wiring that does not already carry electrical power such as where telephone wiring network wiring or power wiring is otherwise unused then an alternative power injector may be present. This power injector may inject electrical power onto the alternative wiring to power the connected devices. As an alternative the connected devices may utilize electrical power that is already present such as where the alternative wiring is telephone wiring carrying a typical 48 direct current Volts network wiring carrying a typical 5 direct current Volts or an electrical power wiring carrying a typical 110 120 alternating current Volts. The connected devices may include components such as power converters regulators and the like to achieve a usable electrical power from that already being carried by the alternative wiring .

A display device is present to display the media signals being distributed over the alternative wiring. The display device may be unable to directly interface with the alternative wiring to obtain the media signals. Thus an alternate control transmitting media display unit may be in line to receive the media signals and then output them to the display device over a connection that is compatible with an input of the display device .

The control transmitting media display unit may also receive control signals from a remote control . If the remote control is not capable of sending signals that reach the control receiving unit while the remote control is in proximity to the display device then the control transmitting media display unit may be used to receive the control signals and then inject them onto the alternate wiring . In this manner the media signals and the control signals are being distributed over the same distribution medium namely the alternate wiring .

As discussed above the remote control may submit an ID when sending the control signals or the control transmitting media display unit may submit its ID in lieu of an ID from the remote control . This allows the media codec device to apply the requested change to whichever media signal is being injected on the carrier channel of the alternate wiring that is assigned to the display device .

While a single display device is shown it will be appreciated that multiple display devices may receive media signals being distributed over the alternate wiring . It will be appreciated that the media transfer unit doing the signal injection may inject a single signal on a carrier or may inject multiple media signals each on its own carrier. It will be appreciated that multiple alternate media transfer units may be present rather than a single one. It will also be appreciated that the control transmitting media display unit may be separated into two single function units rather than the combined function unit as shown.

Upon the encoded media signal being delivered from the network resource the media codec device then decodes the media signal at a decode operation . This may involve decryption of protected signals in addition to the decoding itself. After having decoded the media signal the media signal is distributed via an appropriate output of the media codec device to a media transfer unit or directly to a display device depending upon the connectivity of the device for which the media stream is intended at a distribution operation .

As discussed herein the media signal may be a continuously flowing data stream. As such the media codec device may be performing the signal operation decode operation and distribution operation on a continuous basis for a given media signal s stream of data. Thus the operational flow of is not intended to limit the operation of any embodiments of the media codec device to a particular sequence considering that for a given media signal stream multiple stages of these operations may be occurring at the same time to maintain a continuous feed of the media signal stream to the playback devices.

This storage may occur during manufacture of the media codec device where the ability to handle unprotected and or protected media signals from one or more service providers or other sources is built in. In that case these collections of information may be hardwired into a decoder chip or may be flashed into firmware of a decoder chip. This storage may occur later while the media codec device is in the possession of the user and is in use within the premise of the user. In that case these collections of information may be received over a network connection and then flashed into the modifiable memory of the decoder chip such as by a process discussed below in relation to .

Once the decoder keys decryption algorithms and codecs for the desired sources of media content are stored within the decoder chip of the media codec device the media codec device may then obtain media signals from such sources at the request of the user s . According to embodiments such as shown in once the media signal is obtained the media codec device detects whether the media signal is protected or unprotected at a query operation . Some sources may choose to protect their media signals with encryption to prevent unauthorized access and may charge a subscription fee in order for the media codec device to have the proper decoder key and decryption algorithm needed to decrypt the encoded signal during the decoding process.

Where the media signal to be decoded is protected then the media codec device determines which decoder keys decryption algorithms and codecs apply to that particular media signal at a detection operation . For instance the media signal may include both audio and video streams and the two streams may require different keys decryption and codecs. Likewise different selections from a given service provider may require different keys decryption and codecs and different service providers require different keys decryption and in some cases codecs from one another. The media codec device determines the appropriate keys decryption and codecs in various ways such as by referencing information that may be provided in headers of the media signal and or stored information about the sources of the media signals.

Once the appropriate keys decryption and codecs are identified the media codec device then begins decoding the media signal at a decode operation . As discussed above for a protected signal this may involve first decrypting the encoded media signal using the decoder key and decryption algorithm. The decrypted media signal can then be fully decoded using the codec. As another example in some cases the media signal may be decoded with the codec and then the decoding process can be completed by decrypting the codec output.

Once the decoded media signal is achieved the media codec device may then output the media signal to the appropriate downstream device via an appropriate output at an output operation . For instance the media signal may have been requested by a user whose playback device is receiving media signals by being tuned to a carrier channel output by a media transfer unit such as the media transfer unit . The media codec device may then output the media signal via an output that provides the media signal to the media transfer unit so that the media transfer unit distributes the media signal on the carrier channel such as by a localcast or by injection.

Returning to query operation the media codec device may detect that the media signal that has been obtained is unprotected and therefore does not require decryption before or after decoding. In that case the media codec device may determine which codec to apply to the media signal at a detection operation . Again this determination may be made in various ways such as by reference to information in headers of the media signal itself and or by referring to stored information about the service provider or other source.

The media codec device decodes the unprotected media signal at a decode operation by using the applicable codecs. As discussed above the media signal may include audio streams video streams or a combination of the two and different codecs may apply to each. Once the media signal has been decoded it is then output to the appropriate downstream device such as the media transfer unit or the directly connected display device at the output operation .

It will be appreciated that the decryption algorithms and even service provider specific codecs may also be imported and or removed from decoder memory in certain embodiments of a media codec device . This may occur for similar reasons as those mentioned above in relation to decoder keys. Thus while refers to decoder keys it will further be appreciated that the same logical operations may also be performed to import and or remove decryption algorithms and codecs.

Importing and discarding decoder keys and for that matter decryption algorithms and service provider specific codecs may be a non troublesome occurrence while a media codec device is in the possession of a trusted authority. For instance in some embodiments where the media codec device happens to be a service provider specific piece of hardware the service provider may import such information to the device while in the possession of the service provider such that the security of the information is not at risk. However providing such information to a media codec device over a public network connection while the media codec device is in the hands of a consumer is more troubling because the information is exposed during transport and upon being received by the media codec device .

To address such concerns the information may itself be subject to encoding including encryption that requires a decoder key decryption algorithm and or codec that is pre stored in the hardware decoder chip of the media codec device . In that case the vendor of the media codec device may provide the appropriate encoding and encryption information to each service provider that may wish to provide service to the media codec device so that the service provider can initiate importation of its decoder keys decryptions and any proprietary codecs to the media codec device or can be responsive to a request by the media codec device for such importation.

As an alternative the service providers may provide the decoder keys decryption algorithms and or proprietary codecs to a third party media service broker such as the vendor of the media codec device . This third party media service broken may then handle the encoding and encryption of the service provider decoder keys decryption algorithms and or proprietary codecs and also handle the importation to the media codec device either by initiating the importation or responding to a request.

By maintaining the decoder keys decryption algorithms and any proprietary codecs in the modifiable memory of the decoder chip which is accessible only via the internal operations of the decoder chip the security of such service provider information may be maintained at a level that is acceptable to the service providers. Thus service providers who may be reluctant to distribute such information where it is stored on general purpose storage medium such as a hard drive a memory drive or in a flashable read only memory ROM may be more willing to allow importation of such information to the decoder chip of the media codec device .

The logical operations begin at a query operation where the media codec device determines whether a protected key signal or a removal key signal has been received. The signal may be received based on an unprovoked sending of the signal by a source or may be received based on a prior request sent by the media codec device . A protected key signal is one that provides information such as a decoder key to be imported into the modifiable memory of the decoder chip. A key removal signal is one that provides an instruction to remove information such as a decoder key from the modifiable memory of the decoder chip. The type of signal being received may be determined in various manners such as by referencing information in a header of the signal.

When a protected key signal is received the media codec device then decodes the protected key signal using a service activation decoder key and related decryption algorithm at a decode operation . If further encoded then a codec may be applied as well to complete the decoding of the protected key signal. The decoder key that has been revealed by the decoding may then be stored into the modifiable memory of the decoder chip at a storage operation . The media codec device may then begin decoding media signals using the stored information.

Returning to the query operation when a removal key signal is received the media codec device then decodes the removal key signal using a service deactivation decoder key and related decryption algorithm at a decode operation . If further encoded then a codec may be applied as well to complete the decoding of the removal key signal. The instruction that has been revealed by the decoding may then be implemented to remove an identified decoder key or other information from the modifiable memory of the decoder chip at a removal operation . The media codec device can no longer decode media signals that require the removed information.

The logical operations of show that a different decoder key decryption and even a codec may be used for a protected key signal versus a removal key signal. However it will be appreciated that for some embodiments the same decoder key decryption algorithm and codec may be used for decoding both.

The logical operations begin at a receiving operation by the media codec device receiving requests for various media signal where the requests have originated from the remote controls and of the premise. The requests include an identification of the requesting remote controls and either as provided by the remote controls and themselves or as provided by the control transmitting units in lieu of IDs from the remotes and . The media codec device retains the IDs that accompanied each of the requests in order to map the IDs to outputs and the outputs to the media signals so that the output corresponding to a requesting remote gets the media signal that has been requested by the remote and so on.

The media codec device proceeds to obtain the media signals from each source at a signal operation . As shown in the media signals may be provided by a collection of service providers. The media signal being requested by the remote may correspond to one service provider while the media signal being requested by the remote may correspond to a different service provider and so forth. The media codec device submits upstream communications to the remote media sources or local media sources to negotiate for delivery of the media signals and the media codec device then begins receiving the encoded media signals from the sources . In various embodiments when requesting one or more of the media signals the media codec device may provide credentials to the sources such as a device identifier an account number and so forth. In some cases the sources may not require such credentials but may rely on the security and control of provided by the encoding and encryption of the media signals.

As the media signals are being received the media codec device may then determine which output of the media codec device applies to each media signal based on the IDs of the request at an ID operation . Here the media codec device may rely upon the mapping that has been created between the ID and the output that corresponds to the playback device that is paired with the ID. Thus for the ID of the remote control the media codec device obtains the media signal requested by that ID and then assigns that media signal to the output that is mapped to that ID which happens to be the output that causes the media transfer unit to distribute media signals on the carrier channel that the playback device is tuned to receive. Thus by outputting the media signal for the ID of the remote on the output mapped to the ID of the remote the playback device ultimately receives that media signal for playback.

The media codec device proceeds to decode the media signals as appropriate at a decode operation . Here the media signals may be decoded using any decoder keys decryption algorithms and codecs as may be appropriate and as discussed above in relation to . Upon decoding the media signals they are then directed to the respective outputs that are determined to be applicable based on the IDs that have been received when the media signals were requested at an output operation .

Each of the available sources of column has a collection of media channels that are available to the media codec device and are set forth in a column . These media channels may correspond to live feed channels such as those from CBS Broadcasting Inc. CBS or from the National Broadcasting Company NBC as well as on demand media content that is available and assigned to a given channel such as a particular episode of a show from CBS or NBC.

As shown service provider A has channels that are available to the media codec device while service provider B has channels and service provider C has channels . Any number of those may be live feed channels versus on demand media content assigned to given channels. A local source Local provides a single channel which also may either be a live feed such as from a security camera or an on demand channel such as from a digital video recorder.

A decoder mapping may also map decoder information such as an applicable decoder key shown in a column to each service provider and even to each channel. In the examples shown service provider A utilizes the same decoder key labeled for each channel. Service provider B utilizes a different decoder key for each channel ranging from to . Service provider C utilizes the same decoder key for one set of channels labeled and a second decoder key for a second set of channels labeled . The local resource Local utilizes a decoder key labeled .

When a user requests a particular media signal that request identifies the service provider if more than one is providing media services to the media codec device as well as the channel of content. In some embodiments the processor of the media codec device may provide that information to the decoder chip where this decoder mapping is maintained in decoder chip memory. The decoder chip then finds and applies the appropriate decoding information to achieve a decoded media signal. As one alternative the processor of the media codec device may maintain this decoder mapping in its operating memory and may obtain the labels of the appropriate decoder information from this decoder mapping . The processor may provide those labels to the decoder chip that may then apply the decoder information corresponding to the labels to the encoded media signal to achieve the decoded media signal.

In the example shown a first output . may correspond to the media transfer unit that is localcasting or injecting on ATSC channel . and where the playback device that is in proximity to a remote control whose identifier is AA is tuned to channel .. Thus the active channel A is being sent on output . which results in the playback device showing the media signal of channel A which has been requested by the remote .

A second output . may correspond to the media transfer unit that is localcasting or injecting on ATSC channel . and where the playback device that is in proximity to the remote control whose identifier is AB is tuned to channel .. Thus the active channel B is being sent on output . which results in the playback device showing the media signal of channel B which has been requested by the remote .

One can see that this continues for the other outputs remotes and active channels. As is further shown in a second media transfer unit transmits media content of multiple channels A A and A on ATSC channel . while also transmitting media content of channel C on NTSC channel . Thus one display device that is assigned to ATSC channel . is showing a mix of three media signals from channels A A and A. Providing a mix of multiple media signals is discussed in more detail below with reference to .

Also shown in a third media transfer unit localcasts or injects onto ATSC channel .. Considering that both the first media transfer unit and the third media transfer unit are sending media signals on ATSC channel . then the third media transfer unit is injecting if the first media transfer unit is localcasting or the third media transfer unit is localcasting if the first media transfer unit is injecting so as to avoid providing two different media signals on the same ATSC channel on the same distribution medium.

A fourth output is not related to any particular carrier channel as it may be a direct connection to the playback device such as via an HDMI or DVI D connection. In this example the corresponding remote control has an ID of DA and the fourth output provides the media signal of channel C. Thus it can be seen in this example that two different remotes have requested channel C where one is delivered directly to playback device from the media codec device while another is delivered by a media transfer unit on NTSC channel to the playback device .

Contemporaneously with those operations of the media transfer unit the control transmitting unit may receive a control signal from a remote control at a signal operation . That control signal is to be transferred over a distribution medium such as a coaxial cable telephone line network line or power line back to the control receiving unit . According to some embodiments the distribution medium being used by the control transmitting unit may be the same distribution medium being used by the media transfer unit and like the example shown in the control transmitting unit may be in line and pass through the media signals to the playback device .

The control transmitting unit applies adaption of the control signal to a format suitable for transmission such as by converting the control data into a modulated carrier wave on a given channel at adaption operation . Thereafter the control transmitting unit outputs the control signal over the distribution medium toward the control receiving unit at an output operation .

From it can be seen that the transfer of media signals and control signals may occur contemporaneously. It can further be seen from that such contemporaneous transfer may occur over the same distribution medium. In doing so the setup of the media services at the user premise may be simplified and may limit the extent to which existing resources of the user premise are impacted.

The media codec device becomes operational upon being connected and then receives the requests for media signals via control signals from various remote controls at the first location at a request operation . The media codec device responds to the requests by obtaining the corresponding media signals from the service providers and other sources available to the media codec device including those sources that are local to this first location at a signal operation . The media codec device then decodes the obtained media signals utilizing its on board decoder keys decryption algorithms and codecs at a decode operation . The media codec device then distributes the decoded media signals to the appropriate outputs for distribution by media transfer units present at this first location at a distribution operation . The media signals are ultimately delivered to playback devices located at this first location.

At a query operation the user decides whether to access the media services at a second location. If not then the preceding operations of the media codec device continue at the first location so that media services continue to be available to the user at the first location. When the user decides to access media services at a second location then rather than having a second subscription to the media services for a separate media codec device at the second location the user may instead use the media codec device that is currently operational at the first location at the second location.

As shown in the user removes the media codec device from the plug in port of slot of the housing at the first location or disconnects the one or more dongles at a disconnect operation . The user then transports the media codec device to the second location at a transport operation . As various embodiments of the media codec device may have a relatively small form factor particularly due to the absence of on board distribution peripherals and or power components transporting the media codec device may be a minimal task.

At the second location the user inserts the media codec device into a plug in slot or port of a housing that supports the connectivity to peripherals of the second location or otherwise connects the peripherals via dongles or other cabling at a connection operation .

The media codec device becomes operational upon being connected and then receives the requests for media signals via control signals from various remote controls at the second location at a request operation . The media codec device responds to the requests by obtaining the corresponding media signals from the same service providers and other sources available to the media codec device including those sources that are local to this second location at a signal operation . The media codec device then decodes the obtained media signals utilizing its same on board decoder keys decryption algorithms and codecs at a decode operation . The media codec device then distributes the decoded media signals to the appropriate outputs for distribution by media transfer units present at this second location at an output operation of . The media signals are ultimately delivered to playback devices located at this second location.

Thus the user may enjoy the same media services at the second location that were being enjoyed at the first location. However the media transfer units control transmitting units control receiving units media display units and playback devices may be entirely different devices than those of the first location. For instance the first location may utilize localcasting of media signals and RF transmission of control signals while the second location may utilize coax or other cable injection of media signals and control signals. Various embodiments of the media codec device merely establish a new output mapping of outputs to remotes and to active channels as shown in while continuing to use the same decoder mapping as shown in except as modified for the change in local sources.

At a query operation the user decides whether to access the media services at the first or any other location. If not then the preceding operations of the media codec device continue at the second location so that media services continue to be available to the user at the second location. When the user decides to access media services at the first or any other location then the user removes the media codec device from the plug in port of slot of the housing at the second location or disconnects the one or more dongles at a disconnect operation . The user then transports the media codec device to the first or other location at a transport operation and then the operational flow proceeds as discussed above at the connection operation .

At this point according to various embodiments the media signal may either be manipulated by the media codec device or may be manipulated by a media transfer unit or a media display unit that may possess manipulation capabilities. For embodiments where the media codec device performs the manipulation then operational flow proceeds to a detection operation . For embodiments where the media transfer unit or media display unit perform the manipulation then operational flow proceeds to an output operation where the media signal is output by the media codec device to the media transfer unit and or media display unit .

At the detection operation the media codec device media transfer unit or media display unit determine what the manipulation should be if anything. A manipulation may be requested by the user via control signals in order to mix multiple media signals into a combined media signal to create a picture by picture picture in picture or picture out of picture effect. Another manipulation may be requested in order to scale the resolution of the native media signal up or down such as to improve the appearance of the media signal when displayed by a given playback device having display characteristics that may be better suited to a manipulated media signal than a native one. Yet another manipulation may be requested by the user to stretch the media signal to a different aspect ratio than the native signal provides such as to stretch a 4 3 signal to fill a 16 9 screen horizontally or to stretch a 16 9 signal to fill a 4 3 screen vertically. Various other manipulations may also be available.

Such manipulations are applied to the media signal s at a modification operation to produce a modified media signal. For embodiments where the media codec device has produced the modified media signal then the media codec device outputs the modified media signal to the appropriate output at an output operation . For embodiments where the media transfer unit or media display unit produce the modified media signal then the applicable adaption for transfer is applied to the modified media signal for further distribution to the playback device at an adaption operation .

A first column lists the outputs currently in use. A second column lists whether a stretch is to be performed on the media signal of the corresponding output. A third column lists whether a scaling of the resolution should be performed on the media signal of the corresponding output. A fourth column lists whether multiple media signals are mixed into a combined media signal for the corresponding output.

In the example shown in the media signal of every output is receiving some form of manipulation except the media signal of output . The output . which corresponds to a second media transfer unit using an ATSC channel . for distribution is providing a mix of multiple media signals. This corresponds with the output mapping of where multiple active channels are mapped to the output .. Thus those multiple active channels are getting mixed into a combined media signal for distribution to a playback device.

To the extent the manipulation is occurring at the media transfer unit or media display unit the output mapping may be confined to just those outputs of the media transfer unit or media display unit . For instance the media transfer unit corresponding to outputs . and . would maintain the mapping for those two outputs and not for outputs of other media transfer units.

When the media codec device or the media display unit are directly connected to a playback device such as the playback devices via a bi directional data connection such as with HDMI or with VGA the playback device may communicate its abilities and or any manipulation requests to the media codec device or media display unit . For instance a VGA monitor may communicate over a Display Data Channel DDC the Extended Display Identification Data EDID . In turn the media codec device or media display unit may be responsive to such information to apply a manipulation of the media signal such as to scale the media signal to the resolution that the VGA monitor is capable of displaying in a full screen.

The various embodiments of media codec devices related peripherals and logical operations illustrate that media services may be provided to consumers in a variety of manners. These various embodiments further illustrate that media services may be handled by a single media codec device for a given premise that a single media codec device may handle multiple media signals from multiple sources and control the distribution of the media signals to corresponding playback devices and that a given media codec device may be used in multiple locations to provide the media services wherever the consumer may be.

While embodiments have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other changes in the form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

