---

title: Presentation and analysis of docket information and financial information
abstract: Aggregation, analysis, and presentation of financial and docket information in a common interface are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895104&OS=07895104&RS=07895104
owner: IP Street Inc.
number: 07895104
owner_city: Spokane
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081003
---
This document claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 977 629 filed Oct. 4 2007 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 978 088 filed Oct. 5 2007. Both of these provisional applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material to which a claim for copyright is made. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but reserves all other copyright rights whatsoever.

Innovation is a key factor for many companies to succeed in a globally competitive world. Protection of innovation via intellectual property IP helps those companies convert innovation into business assets. Today Intangible assets represent a significant share of the market capitalizations of many of the most successful and innovative companies. Yet to the business community and many professionals who are not IP legal experts intellectual property generally and patents specifically remain somewhat of a mystery to fully understand assess and value.

Governments and related agencies including judicial bodies play an important role today s marketplace. In addition organizations exist that provide assistance in mediation and arbitration. Such entities typically maintain dockets of proceedings. As described herein an exemplary method acquires docket information and relates docket information to financial markets.

In a particular example a docket maintained by the United State Patent Trademark Office USPTO is monitored. During monitoring an event such as a Notice of Allowance of a patent application can trigger an alert. The alert may be issued with financial information such as stock and or option information for the assignee of the patent application a competitor of the assignee of the patent application and or one or more other parties that may have some financial interest in the docket event.

In another example knowledge about the underlying process is used to predict a likely date of an event. For example a patent application is typically assigned to an Art Unit based on the technology field. Knowledge of the behaviors e.g. prior events timings of events backlog number of examiners etc. of the Art Unit can then be used to predict timings of events for a particular patent application. Such information can be presented in conjunction with financial information such a stock price.

An exemplary analysis may occur as to the trend of stock price and the likely impact of a predicted event. In general issuance of a patent occurs after a Notice of Allowance and both of these events can have a positive impact on stock price of an assignee. Further such events may have an impact on one or more other parties e.g. competitors suppliers customers etc. . An exemplary method can recommend action with respect to the stock and or options of a company based on for example the nature of a docket event the predicted timing of an event current trends in the stock options past information with respect to effect of a Notice of Allowance and or issuance of a patent on the stock options etc.

While the foregoing example is for a so called patent application prosecution docket an exemplary analysis may occur for a litigation docket or other type of docket. A particular example includes monitoring a patent litigation docket in a court e.g. US Federal District Court US Appellate Court etc. and issuing an alert upon an event. The alert may be issued with financial information such as stock and or option information for one or more parties involved in the litigation e.g. typically an assignee of the patent and or one or more other parties that may have some financial interest in the litigation docket event.

As mentioned with respect to the USPTO courts also have behavior that can be predictable to varying degrees. For example United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia has particular local rules that have led to the name Rocket Docket . During the 1960s Judge Albert V. Bryan Jr. ran the Alexandria court often ruled cases on the spot after motions were argued. The court earned the nickname the rocket docket for the speed and efficiency for which it processes its cases. Since 1997 the court has processed civil cases the fastest of the 94 federal districts and eighth fastest in dealing with criminal cases. Thus an exemplary method can apply such knowledge to a docket to predict with some degree of certainty timings of docket events.

In general in the United States litigation dockets are available from the PACER Service Center is the Federal Judiciary s centralized registration billing and technical support center for electronic access to U.S. District Bankruptcy and Appellate court records http pacer.psc.uscourts.gov . It includes Digital Audio Recordings Pilot Federal Case Statistics Policies and Procedures Written Opinions and other information.

An exemplary method can recommend action with respect to the stock and or options of a company based on for example the nature of a docket event the predicted timing of a litigation docket event current trends in the stock options past information with respect to effect of a docket event on the stock options etc.

In another example a docket of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC is monitored for events. A Website at http elibrary.ferc.gov idmws docket search.asp provides docket information for energy related matters. In addition an option exists to eSubscribe to a docket. An exemplary method may use an electronic subscription a crawler a docket number etc. to uncover docket information for a company or companies. For example a word search of the publicly traded company AVISTA uncovers hits. A docket number such as ER08 2 000 may be selected which pertains to electric rate filing see e.g. http www.ferc.gov docs filing eLibrary docket prefix.asp for explanation of prefixes . This docket is entitled Avista Corp and NorthWestern Corp submits a non confirming Long Term Service Agreements FERC electric Rate Schedule 484 and FERC Electric Rate Schedule 248 under ER08 2 . This matter is for an Application Petition Request Tariff Filing . Other matters exist for example as the rates.

In another example the docket number EL00 95 is entered which pertains to Miscellaneous Formal Filings Related to Electric Power for San Diego Gas Electric Company v. Sell. One item filed by CONSTELLATION POWER SOURCE INC is entitled Complaint alleging that the markets for energy ancillary services operated by the California Power Exchange Corp the California Independent System Operator Corp are not workably competitive that the prices in those markets are unjust unreasonable . While specific information in documents may be confidential other information such as the filing of a document is publicly available.

An exemplary method can acquire information from a docket such as the FERC docket and then issue an alert. An exemplary method can recommend action with respect to the stock and or options of a company based on for example the nature of a docket event the predicted timing of a docket event current trends in the stock options past information with respect to effect of a docket event on the stock options etc.

The FDA maintains a site at http www.fda.gov ohrms dockets that pertains to various dockets. For example consider the following docket information 2007P 0310 Alkaline and Earth Alkaline Citrates and Osteoporosis Health Claim Petition by the company Immunotec Inc. An acknowledgment occurred on Aug. 1 2007 and the FDA responded as follows on Aug. 9 2007 

RE Petition for a health Claim Stating that Alkaline and Earth Alkaline citrates Minimizes the Risk of Osteoporosis

This letter is in reference to the subject health claim petition received by the Food and Drug Administration FDA or the agency on Apr. 23 2007 in which you requested that the agency authorize a health claim with respect to alkaline and earth alkaline citrates and osteoporosis. The petition was submitted pursuant to section 403 r 5 D of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act the act 21 U.S.C. 343 r 5 D . On May 3 2007 we informed you that the petition was undergoing initial FDA review.

We have completed out initial review of the petition and are filing it as specified in section 403 r 4 i of the act 21 U.S.C. 343 r 4 i on Aug. 1 2007. Within 90 days of the filing date FDA will either publish a proposed regulation authorizing use of the health claim or deny the petition. We have calculated that date to be Oct. 30 2007. Denial may be made by FDA action or by lack of FDA action in which case the petition shall be deemed to be denied unless an extension is mutually agreed upon by FDA and the petitioner.

Please feel free to contact Dr. Jillonne Kevala at 301 436 1848 if you have questions concerning this petition.

From this example information as to timings exist which can be used to assess market positions with respect to stock options in the submitted company and or one or more companies that may have a financial interest in a forthcoming docket event.

An exemplary method can acquire information from a docket such as the FDA docket and then issue an alert. An exemplary method can recommend action with respect to the stock and or options of a company based on for example the nature of a docket event the predicted timing of a docket event current trends in the stock options past information with respect to effect of a docket event on the stock options etc.

A database exists for Federal Securities Rulings including SEC Docket and Federal Securities Law Reporter Selected Releases. In this database the SEC Docket offers more than 20 years of SEC releases rulings opinions and official Commission actions. Coverage includes proposed rule making changes final rules interpretative releases accounting matters and self regulatory and administrative decisions.

An exemplary method can acquire information from a docket such as the SEC docket and then issue an alert. An exemplary method can recommend action with respect to the stock and or options of a company based on for example the nature of a docket event the predicted timing of a docket event current trends in the stock options past information with respect to effect of a docket event on the stock options etc.

A docket serves as the repository for documents or information related to an Agency s rulemaking activity. Agencies most commonly use dockets for rulemaking actions but dockets may also be used for various other non rulemaking activities. The docket generally consists of the materials specifically referenced in the Federal Register document any public comments received and other information used by decision makers or otherwise related to the Agency rulemaking activity such as supporting analyses. When an Agency announces a rulemaking action in the Federal Register the Agency may create a docket to accumulate materials throughout the rulemaking s lifecycle. Some Agencies maintain their dockets electronically with access via the Internet while other Agencies retain hard copies of materials submitted to their docket.

Regulations.gov contains the rulemaking dockets of select participating Departments and Agencies. If you wish to view the docket for a particular rulemaking of a non participating Department or Agency the Federal Register publication for that rulemaking will describe the methods through which the docket can be viewed. Any comments you submit to an Agency may be made available for public inspection copying and dissemination via the paper and or electronic docket.

As described herein dockets include rulemaking as well as decision making dockets e.g. patentability rates product claims etc. . Dockets for a political body may also be used see e.g. THOMAS for US legislative action http thomas.loc.gov . Below particular examples pertain to patent prosecution dockets and patent litigation dockets however such techniques can be applied to any of a variety of dockets e.g. within the US or anywhere around the world . Further financial markets may include those in the US and or those around the world.

Across the globe various mechanisms exist for recognizing or granting rights for intangibles such as inventions creative expressions symbols of goodwill etc. Inventions are typically protected using patents creative expressions are typically protected using copyrights and symbols of goodwill are typically protected using trademarks e.g. including trade dress and the like .

Various exemplary methods systems devices described herein relate to intellectual property and information germane to intellectual property especially for purposes of taking action with respect to financial markets.

The computing device is configured to access information such as information in the databases over one or more networks. In the example of information is available from a financial database a civil legal database an administrative legal database and or one or more other databases . The financial database can provide stock information and optionally other financial information such as options bonds etc. In general such information is available in near real time along with historic information. The civil legal database can provide information as to litigation. One example database is the PACER database that tracks litigation dockets for both civil and criminal actions for various jurisdictions in the United States although other legal databases may be used. The administrative legal database is representative of a database associated with an administrative agency. For example the administrative legal DB may be associated with the U.S. Patent Trademark Office. While the term legal appears in describing the administrative database an administrative agency may have a database with non legal information or quasi legal information as well which is contemplated herein. Many administrative agencies make determinations as to rights such as patent rights. Other administrative agencies include FDA FERC ITC SEC and the like. Other databases may include databases of marketing data country data e.g. CIA database etc.

The information collected in the databases may be of domestic or international scope. For instance the financial DB may represent databases that hold stock and financial information for US companies or for non US companies. Further the administrative legal DB may represent other sources of information such as European patent information available from the European Patent Office or Japanese patent information available from the Japanese Patent Office. Essentially the computing device may draw from any number of US or world based sources of financial legal and IP related information.

The computing device acquires information from the one or more databases aggregates the information and assesses that information via the analysis modules . Once processed the computing device stores the aggregated and analyzed information in an integrative database which allows accessibility to portions or all of the aggregated information.

The computing device is further configured to present the information graphically as indicated by the graphic . The graphic may be a printed page or displayed using a display device e.g. associated with a computer a terminal etc. . The graphic consists of a collection of informational items arranged on a page to convey visually certain aspects of the underlying IP asset such basic information key statistics scope of IP rights and financial information of the asset owner and how the IP related events may impact financial or operational aspects of the asset owner. The graphic may consist of any number of informational items. In certain implementations the number and arrangement of the items may be configurable by users. For instance a service hosted on the computing device may allow a user to select from a menu of possible items and arrange those items on the graphic . Examples of possible graphics are shown and discussed below. However these are merely representative as other graphics may be used to convey the information.

In the example of the graphic is for an intellectual property document such as a patent or a patent application. In general such documents have a serial number and or other identifying number . The graphic includes information germane to the document identified by number . While a number is stated the identifier can be letters numbers symbols a combination and so forth.

In the example of the graphic includes a title a description from the document an image from the document key information from the document ownership information information about administrative proceedings landscape analysis of intellectual property rights or applied for rights with respect to time integrative financial and legal information global IP and or market information IP classification and or category information IP share for an owner and IP rights analysis . The graphic is provided as an example other graphics may have less or more information.

The title area of the graphic is reserved for the title of the document as well as other general data about the document. For instance the title area of a graphic generated for a patent document may include the inventor name s or the assignee of the patent. For a trademark document the title area may include the assignee of the trademark or the class of goods and services.

The description may include a brief summary of the asset covered by the IP document. In the case of a patent the description may be the abstract or summary portion of the document. Alternatively it may be one of the claims or selected text from the detailed description section of the patent document. In the case of a trademark it may be a description of the goods or services.

The image provides a visual of the asset being protected by the IP. For a patent the image may include an illustration from the patent document such as one of the figures. For a trademark document the image may include an image of the mark.

The key information is provided to allow the system administrators to designate certain data for inclusion on the graphic. For a patent document such key information may include a filing date of the application an issue date of when the patent issued a publication date any priority dates inventor name s the US Examiner who examined the patent application the law firm handling prosecution of the patent the class within which the Patent Office classified the invention a claim count e.g. total claims independent claims etc. the art unit examining the application the allowance rate of the art unit other related patents or applications key references cited during prosecution and so forth. Similar information may be provided for other IP assets such as trademarks and copyright registrations.

The information used to populate the title description image and key information may be retrieved from one or more databases. For instance much of this information may be found at an administrative legal DB maintained by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Alternatively this information may be retrieved from other commercial sources such as services promoted by Thomson Lexis Nexis and Google .

The ownership area is provided for a graphic showing the chain of ownership from the time of filing to the present. For an IP document such as a patent this area visually depicts assignment data retrieved from the administrative legal DB of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

The administrative process area concerns key data pertaining to how the IP asset was formed. Consider the context of a patent document. When securing a patent an applicant first files a patent application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office where it is examined. During the examination process a record is created detailing the Examiner s review of the application and any responsive comments or changes to the patent application made by the applicant. For instance the Examiner often rejects the initial application on the grounds that the invention as claimed is not novel or is obvious in view of that which is already known in the field of technology. The Examiner cites prior art references and submits arguments as to why the invention as claimed should not be allowed. In response the applicant commonly submits rebuttal arguments and may on occasions amend the claims to change their scope in an effort to persuade the Examiner that the application should be allowed. This process is called patent prosecution and the record created is typically referred to as the file wrapper history or simply file history . During this process the scope of the IP asset may change and this scope change often has an impact on the value of the ultimate IP asset.

The computing device retrieves the file history or other administrative record from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other appropriate agency or from a third party supplier. The analysis modules classify and extract key portions of the file history and store them in the memory . For instance in the context of patents the analysis modules may identify claims amendments to the claims arguments made by the Examiner rebuttal arguments advanced by the applicant key references excerpts from those references pertinent filings or admissions e.g. terminal disclaimers information disclosure statements etc. reasons for allowance and so forth. Various forms of analysis e.g. statistical semantic etc. may be performed on the file history extracts stored in the memory to provide key insights into the formation of the IP asset.

The administrative area provides a graphic that visually conveys to the reader how the IP asset progressed during the administrative period e.g. during patent prosecution and how that process may have affected the scope of the IP asset. The graphic is intended to convey at a glance whether the IP assets scope changed significantly or not during the administrative process. Further it is intended to reveal whether the process involved many interactions with the agency or a few as a proxy for how clean or messy the file history which often plays a role in whether the asset owner chooses to assert the asset in litigation or offer it for licensing. One example graphic is shown in FIG.

The landscape analysis is an area that visually conveys information pertaining to how the IP asset fits within a larger context. The landscape may be directed to technology or a company s portfolio or to one or more competitors portfolios or to a particular geographical region or to any number of contexts. In the example of the landscape analysis is directed to a landscape of independent claims found in patents within the relevant classification.

The integrative financial legal information area is provided prominently on the graphic in the upper right hand quadrant. It provides one or more visual cues to correlate certain legal events or transactions with certain financial parameters. In one example shown in the integrative financial legal information area includes a stock chart showing the historical stock performance of the company that owns the IP asset over a period of time e.g. week month quarter year multiple years etc. . Overlaid on this chart are indicators showing related legal events such as litigation events patent issuance events settlements licensing transactions if known and so forth. This information is intended to convey whether certain legal events had any impact on the stock performance of the company. It is noted that other financial data and other events may be correlated in this space on the graphic to allow the reader to assess quickly whether there has been a financial impact on the company due to a legal event.

The global IP market information area is provided to correlate market data with IP related legal aspects. For instance in one implementation the global IP market information area visually conveys market data about a product being protected in part by the corresponding IP asset. As an example suppose the graphic is for a U.S. Patent covering a communications chip used in cell phones. Here a world map may be shown with different regions of the world color coded to exhibit different cell market growth rates or penetration rates or sales figures or other market data . Correlated with this view is another view of how well the IP asset maps to those regions. In one example a second world map is juxtaposed with the first one and shows through different colors those regions in which the IP asset is protected by patents. In other implementations such as those involving an interactive UI the two world maps may be consolidated and the user can hover over the various regions to learn whether the market data and whether IP rights for this asset extend to the selected region.

The IP category information area provides information items pertaining more generally to IP data relevant to IP document. For instance the area may provide information about the class within which the IP document is assigned. It may alternatively provide information about the group art unit within which the IP document was examined or the family tree showing other related IP documents or IP filing rates in this particular technology worldwide. One example is shown in where the history of application filings and patent issuances for the relevant class are depicted.

The IP share area contains information items derived from analysis of ownership of IP documents within a particular technology area or class of the IP document being assessed. For instance this area may provide a breakdown of ownership of the IP documents in a particular class at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to which the subject IP document belongs. As shown in this item may be a pie chart showing the percentage ownership of the top holders of IP documents in the class to which the subject IP document belongs.

The IP rights analysis area is an area reserved for results of an analysis of the scope of rights attached to the IP document. In the context of patents the scope of a patent document is dictated by the scope of the claims. Thus the analysis is performed on the claims of the IP documents and a graphical representation of scope is generated for presentation. In for example there is an overlapping set of circles that correlate to the scope of the IP document relative to other IP documents.

The graphic produced by the system may be used in many contexts. Financial professionals may use the graphic and other higher level analyses to investigate the ties between financial aspects of a company and that company s IP portfolio. IP professionals may use the graphic as a portfolio tool to analyze their own portfolios as well as others e.g. competitors acquisition targets etc. . IP professionals may further use the graphic in transactions as well as to assess opportunities in geographical regions or technology sectors.

It is further noted that present merely one possible layout and format. The graphic may consist of more or less items than shown in these figures. Moreover other graphical items may be substituted in place of the ones described and discussed above in the exemplary context.

Information associated with the single IP document is stored in an integrative DB . Information may be data and other information typically structured for ease of access and relationships for purposes of queries. In general the DB includes information for a plurality of IP documents. For example the DB may include information for patents and patent applications in the US and Europe for a particular class US and corresponding European class filed and or issued between the years 1980 and present. It may further include the file histories or other agency records pertaining to the IP documents. The integrative DB may be implemented as part of memory in or as a separate database accessible by the computing device .

A level II analysis commences with a query for trends performance etc. for example of an owner of the IP rights associated with the single IP document . The level II analysis and integration accesses information in the DB and generates a level II presentation . A level II presentation may present information based on a portfolio analysis for a company. Other types of analyses are also possible for example inventor examiner former assignee country competitor etc. This level II presentation may be presented in near real time to the user submitting the query or alternatively stored in the integrative DB or in other memory for later retrieval and presentation to the user or another user submitting a similar query.

One example landscape analysis item is depicted as graphic element . The landscape graphic element presents information in two dimensions over a third time based dimension. In the example of for purposes of discussion the IP document and graphic element pertain patents and hence the information is for a single independent claim e.g. claim or multiple independent claims in a series of patents within a class. The information is plotted as the number of unique words in each claim with optional filtering along the x axis versus the total number of words in the claim along the y axis. In general many believe that a claim with fewer total words tends to be broader in scope. It is noted that this is just one proxy for claim scope and others may be employed. The claims are grouped temporarily into four different grids with each grid representing a different time frame in which the patent issued. In grid the points represent claims that were issued before 1990. In the second grid the points represent claims that were issued in the timeframe of 1990 to 1995. In the third grid the points represent claims that were issued in the timeframe of 1995 to 2000 and the fourth grid shows claims issued after 2000. As described herein an exemplary technique considers total words for a claim in conjunction with unique words. As indicated in the graphic element trends become apparent. In the shaded grid an arrow is depicted to indicate the point corresponding to the subject IP document being analyzed as part of the method .

The time periods allow one to see changes in the number of patents issued with respect to time for example as a technology develops. Further trends become apparent as the points cluster with outliers. Such data is amenable to further analysis using statistical techniques. The class fingerprint facilitates review as it provides a framework for systematic analysis of claims. For example a person or algorithm may commence an analysis at the lower left fewer unique words and fewer total words . Such claims may have a tendency to be broader in scope or in other words a probability analysis may show that claims in the lower left have a greater chance of being broader than claims in the upper right. Where the number of patents is large e.g. thousands such an approach can help manage patent assessment in a more systematic manner e.g. for valuation litigation risk product clearance etc. .

As described herein a formula may be used to characterize a claim or fingerprint a claim. In the example of the formula includes a semantic analysis for unique words with optional filtering to remove words such as a the and and the like.

The method includes selecting a time on the timeline and then displaying data for the selected time for one or more of the items in the graphic. The method includes selecting a time frame on the timeline and then displaying data for the selected time frame 2024 for one or more of the items in the graphic. The method includes selecting one or more events from a graphic item and then displaying data for the selected event s for one or more of the items in the graphic.

In the example of the time chart includes a series of categories associated with a patent document and ownership of the patent document together with events in the categories over a common timeline. The time chart includes active controls to access information for events in one or more of the categories. For instance menu feature appears when the user hovers over or otherwise selects the litigation docket event referenced by the pointer . The menu allows the user to link to the docket item associated with that litigation event and read the full text or portions thereof.

An exemplary method may provide a breakdown of financial events and docket events. For example in a box presents analysis results where a one to one correspondence of docket events and stock events is presented. In this example each docket event has a data and information for the stock performance is given as an up or down indicator from a baseline. A baseline may be established using a standard index a competitor stock a litigant s stock etc. Such a presentation allows a user to uncover possible reactions to docket events. In the box the opinion date corresponds to the highest positive move of stock price over the period of the selected docket events.

In the example of the results include trend information with respect to one or more docket events and optionally with respect to a possible future docket event. As described herein such information may be used in making decisions with respect to financial markets as indicated by the menu Buy Now where a fly out may list one or more accounts to use for taking action with respect to a stock and or options. In the particular example of a recommendation appears next to an action e.g. which can be an indicator of probability that such an action will have a favorable financial return.

In the example of trends are shown with respect to a baseline. Other techniques may be used to correlate docket events with financial information to allow a user to make a decision with respect to a financial instrument. In addition as shown in a user may see the results and on a common interface select an action. Overall such an interface allows a user to act promptly in response to a docket event. As the old saying goes Time is money such a method and or system for implementing the method can allow a user to act advantageously and quickly in response to one or more docket events and or trends that may exist with respect to docket matter.

In the example of the actions may be linked to appropriate mechanisms to take the underlying action. For example a link to a brokerage service may exist.

An exemplary system for brokerage services includes an application programming interface that allows an application that implements the method to interact with the brokerage service. For example such an API may provide for secure transactions with the application.

An exemplary system for brokerage services includes an application programming interface that allows an application that implements the method to interact with the brokerage service. For example such an API may provide for secure transactions with the application.

The method may display a docket and financial information along with recommendations on a common interface. A system to implement such a method may include a computing device on a client side e.g. desktop handheld etc. that allows a user to take actions. Such a computing device may operate wirelessly.

The graphic may be an electronic document with controls for implementing one or more of the exemplary methods described herein. For example a user may select a prosecution docket event and then the graphic may be updated to show financial information associated with the date of the prosecution event. In addition a user may select a litigation event on the graphic and in turn a docket is displayed for the litigation event. A user may select one or more of the docket events or items and then cause an update of the financial graphic to display financial information in association with the one or more selected docket events. In addition an automatic update may occur in response to a docket event e.g. prosecution event litigation event or other docket event . For example for a pharmaceutical company a FDA docket event may issue an alert. In general pharmaceutical companies rely on patent protection and FDA decision making. Thus an exemplary graphic may include FDA docket information for such a company.

In general for litigation matters a briefing cycle exists opening brief response brief and reply brief. Sometimes a hearing occurs prior to a decision. An exemplary method has a priori knowledge of briefing cycles and may even have a priori knowledge of how a court handles matters e.g. Rocket Docket . In such a method once a docket event occurs the method can update an analysis and issue an alert as to immediate action and or timed action. Timed action may include wait until June 27 and then take action X as a decision on the briefs is likely to be rendered on that day. With respect to action X this may be to buy a stock buy calls etc. depending on an underlying trend in financial data with respect to the docket information.

In patent litigation in the US a major event is referred to as a Markman hearing. A Markman hearing pertains to claim scope where a judge decides the claim scope as a matter of law. The opinion issued by a judge as to claim scope can be determinative as to outcome of a patent infringement case at a district court. Thus in a particular example the hearing item in the docket may be a Markman hearing. Information such as the expected date of the opinion is useful information for taking action with respect to financial markets e.g. for litigants . Where rules and or behavior of a court and or a judge are known to some degree a priori then an exemplary method may recommend taking action at a particular time and or taking a particular action in a financial market.

While various examples pertain to dockets that may be available electronically other dockets and or events may be used. For example where a paper publication occurs then such information may be entered using appropriate scanning and or hand coding technology. Where an oral event occurs a person may be present in a court room and then relay the information to a server or datacenter for appropriate distribution. With respect to the latter at times a judge will render an initial decision orally and then follow with a written order. A person sitting in the court at the time of the oral decision can rely such information e.g. in the court where permitted or outside of the court to an appropriate server that can update all users interested in the matter. An exemplary method such as the method may act automatically upon entry of the information and immediately make a recommendation as to acting with respect to a financial market.

As described herein various exemplary methods systems devices etc. can acquire information from multiple databases and collate in a format e.g. patent stock litigation databases .

Various exemplary methods may be optionally embodied in whole or in part as instructions on a computer readable medium.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

