---

title: Method for generating small and ultra small apertures, slits, nozzles and orifices
abstract: A method and device for one or more small apertures, slits, nozzles and orifices, preferably having a high aspect ratio. In one embodiment, one or more alternating layers of sacrificial layers and blocking layers are deposited onto a substrate. Each sacrificial layer is made of a material which preferably allows a radiation to substantially pass through. Each blocking layer is made of a material which substantially blocks the radiation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08182870&OS=08182870&RS=08182870
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 08182870
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080529
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and UChicago Argonne LLC.

The present invention relates to a device and method for generating one or more small and ultra small apertures slits nozzles orifices or masks preferably having high aspect ratios. In a preferred embodiment one or more apertures each have an aperture size less than about 5 microns are used to mask collimate or condition particles radiation flow fields or combinations thereof henceforth collectively referred to as radiation.

There are technical and industrial needs for the efficient and economical production of single and arrays of small apertures. Particularly the production of small apertures having a large aspect ratio length depth of the aperture over the aperture size can beneit a number of applications that use slits masks nozzles collimators filters and waveguides.

There is also a great need for apertures having a small aperture size less than about 5 microns with large aspect ratios. For example these small apertures can provide high contrast masking and collimation necessary for high resolution detection by allowing an intense beam of radiation to illuminate a select area of a sample.

High quality high aspect ratio apertures can also be used for waveguide applications where radiation bounces between the walls of an aperture. Waveguides greatly benefit from smooth high quality apertures and walls.

Ultra small apertures have a growing number of scientific applications as well. As an example coherent X ray diffraction CXD experiments can benefit from very small apertures having a large aspect ratio. In CXD experiments one must have an aperture to slit down narrows an X ray beam to dimensions smaller than the transverse coherence length of the source typically 5 microns or less.

There have been various efforts to efficiently produce high quality apertures using methods such as mechanical machining wire EDM Electrical Discharge Machining double blade precisely polished slits and laser drilling. Unfortunately these methods have thus far proved unable to produce cost effective high quality apertures. Furthermore none of these methods are capable of producing very small apertures with large aspect ratios. These traditional fabrication tools are currently unable to produce apertures much smaller than 5 microns especially with a large aspect ratio.

Precisely polished double blade slits have had some success in generating apertures as small as a few microns however calibration is difficult in these systems because controlling aperatures of about 1 micron or less requires precision stages and control that adds to the physical size and cost. The physical size of these systems makes them unrealistic to use in an array of apertures.

Laser drilling is another method of creating small apertures typically as small as 5 microns. Pulsed high energy solid state laser and short pulse deep ultraviolet UV laser have recently produced apertures as small as a few microns. Unfortunately laser drilling produces irregular aperture shapes as a result of the laser ablation process and is thus far unable to produce apertures having lengths in excess of a few microns. Various lithographic techniques have also been used to produce small apertures but in select metals with limited aspect ratios and requiring specialized facilities and tools.

Therefore it is desirable to have a method to efficiently and economically produce one or an array of high quality small and ultra small apertures especially with high aspect ratios.

A device and method for generating one or more small or ultra small apertures preferably having a high aspect ratio. In one embodiment one or more alternating blocking layers and sacrificial layers are deposited onto a substrate. Each sacrificial layer is made of a material which preferably allows a selected radiation to substantially pass through. Each blocking layers is made a material which substantially blocks the selected radiation.

A device and method for generating one or more small or ultra small apertures preferably having a high aspect ratio. In one embodiment one or more alternating blocking layers and sacrificial layers are deposited onto a substrate. Each sacrificial layer is made of a material which preferably allows a selected radiation particle field or flow hereby selected radiation to substantially pass through. Each blocking layers is made of a material which substantially blocks the selected radiation.

The sacrificial layers each allow a selected radiation to substantially pass through. Conversely the blocking layers substantially block the selected radiation. Preferably the substrate is made of a low cost material which may not necessarily be blocking and a blocking layer is deposited adjacent to the substrate as shown in and . In the alternative a sacrificial layers may be deposited onto the substrate followed by a blocking layer whereby the substrate preferably blocks the selected radiation as shown in .

Preferably for embodiments benefitting from a small aperture size the sacrificial layers of and and the blocking layers are deposited by methods such as atomic layer deposition ALD chemical vapor deposit CVD sputtering plasma assisted deposition an rf cavity electroplating or combinations thereof. In the alternative preferably for embodiments utilizing larger apertures it may be more cost effective to deposit the sacrificial layers and the blocking layers by such methods as electroplating dipping spray chemical reaction rf cavity thermal deposition or combinations thereof.

The substrate provides structural support for the sacrificial layers and the blocking layers . Preferably the substrate has a smooth defined surface optimized for the desired use. Preferably the substrate is made of highly polishable materials such as silicon silicon carbonate glasses etc. . . . Preferably the substrate is thick enough for polishing and coating purposes with its length and width large as needed has a length longer than its thickness or width.

As the substrate will dictate the shape and smoothness of the sacrificial layers and blocking layers the shape and smoothness of the substrate is preferably optimized for the desired shape and smoothness of the sacrificial layers and blocking layers . Preferably the substrate has a defined surface designed for optimal use. Preferably the defined surface of the substrate is a flat smooth surface. However for some applications the substrate can have such defined shapes as spherical cylindrical and other complex shapes. Preferably the substrate has a defined surface which is very smooth having a peak to valley thickness less than 1 10 the thickness of a sacrificial layer preferably the thinnest sacrificial layer . In one embodiment the substrate has a defined surface which has a shape running along its length. In another embodiment the substrate has a defined surface which has shape running along its width. In yet another alternate embodiment the sacrificial layers each have arbitrarily variable thickness across the surface of the substrate .

In one embodiment the substrate has a cylindrical shape. In this embodiment the sacrificial layers and the blocking layers either uniform or non uniform create slits acting as an annulus aperture. This embodiment may be desirable to focus radiation as in a zone plate. In another embodiment the substrate acts as a blocking layer while also providing structural support.

Preferably the substrate blocking layers and sacrificial layers are constructed having lengths and widths longer than desired and subsequently cut preferably using mechanical laser ion ultrasound tools or thinning by polish. Cutting the substrate blocking layers and sacrificial layers will generally be more appropriate from manufacturing stand point and economical than trying to construct the desired size. The substrate blocking layers and sacrificial layers are preferably cut to shorten the length of the substrate blocking layers and sacrificial layers . Each blocking layer of each resulting slice should have a length long enough to substantially block the selected radiation. Preferably each blocking layer of each resulting slice has a length greater than two extinction lengths for the selected radiation.

The sacrificial layers each allow the selected radiation to substantially pass through. Preferably the sacrificial layers each allow the radiation to pass through unaffected. Preferably at least about 10 percent more preferably about 50 percent of the selected radiation to pass through each sacrificial layer . In a preferred embodiment at least 90 percent of the radiation to passes through each sacrificial layer . In one embodiment the selected radiation is intentionally attenuated by one or more suitable sacrificial layers resulting in a lower transmission.

Preferably the sacrificial layers each have thickness less than about 5 microns. More preferably the sacrificial layers each have a thickness between about 1 nm to about 5 microns. In a preferred embodiment the substrate each sacrificial layer and each blocking layer have a length greater than about 1 mm. Preferably the substrate each sacrificial layer and each blocking layer have a length at least 100 times greater than the thickness of a sacrificial layer . In one embodiment each layer sacrificial layer blocking layer and substrate has a length up to about 10times greater than the thickness of the thinnest sacrificial layer .

Preferably the sacrificial layers is made of a material which allows the selected radiation to pass through substantially unaffected. Preferably the sacrificial layers are made of light elements such as lithium beryllium boron silicon carbon or combinations thereof.

In an alternate embodiment one or more sacrificial layers are each subsequently partially removed creating one or more voids which allows the selected radiation to pass through the voids created by the removed sacrificial layers . Preferably the sacrificial layers are partially removed by such methods as selective etching chemical treatment ion milling or thermal treatment.

In one embodiment one or more sacrificial layers are formed by a monolayer a single closely packed layer of atoms molecules or cells. In some instances preferably Atomic Layer Deposition ALD technique is used to deposit monolayers. In a preferred embodiment the sacrificial layers each has a thickness of about 1 nm and a length of at least one meter giving an aspect ratio of at least 10.

The sacrificial layers each conform to the substrate surface. In one embodiment the sacrificial layers each have a defined thickness varying along the length of the substrate . In yet another alternate embodiment the sacrificial layers each have a defined thickness varying along the width of the substrate

Therefore each sacrificial layer creates an aperture slit nozzle or orifice which allows the selected radiation to substantially pass through the length of the sacrificial layer largely unaffected.

The blocking layers each substantially prevent the selected radiation from passing through. Preferably the blocking layers each prevents at least 10 percent more preferably 50 percent of the selected radiation from passing through. In a preferred embodiment at least 90 percent of the selected radiation is prevented from passing through. Preferably each blocking layer absorbs or reflects the selected radiation.

Preferably each blocking layer has a thickness greater than about or larger than the thickness of a sacrificial layer . More preferably each blocking layer has a thickness capable of substantially blocking the selected radiation. Preferably each blocking layer has a length along the length of the substrate greater than about two extinction lengths for the selected radiation. Preferably each blocking layer maintains a uniform thickness to ensure a uniform blocking of the selected radiation.

In a preferred embodiment X rays are the selected radiation and the blocking layer is made of a heavy element such as gold or a gold alloy. Preferably the blocking layers each have a length greater than about two extinction lengths for the selected X rays. In a preferred embodiment each blocking layer has a length between about 10 and 1 000 microns.

The blocking layers each conform to the substrate surface. In one embodiment the blocking layers each have a defined thickness having a shape running along the length of the substrate . In yet another alternate embodiment the blocking layers each have a defined thickness having a shape running along the width of the substrate .

The selected radiation a particle radiation field or flow is selected depending on the application. For example for X ray collimators the radiation is an X ray and the sacrificial layers preferably has small aperture and a long length whereby only parallel travelling X rays are passed through thereby collimating at least a part of the radiation source . Other examples of radiation include but are not limited to neutrons protons electrons gamma rays charged particles accelerated particles fields etc.

In the embodiment depicted in and a blocking layer is positioned between the substrate and a sacrificial layers . In the alternative the embodiment shown in may be used whereby a sacrificial layers is positioned between the substrate and a blocking layer . Preferably the layer furthest from the substrate is a blocking layer .

The substrate each sacrificial layer each blocking layer or a combination thereof may each have unique shapes and sizes. For example each layer may have a unique shape thickness length width or combination thereof. In one embodiment the sacrificial layers have the same width and thickness as each other. In the alternative each sacrificial layer has a unique thickness. In one embodiment each blocking layer has a thickness larger than a sacrificial layer . In another embodiment each sacrificial layer has a thickness larger than the blocking layer .

The one or more adhesive layers help connect the various layers. Therefore an adhesive layer between the substrate and an adjacent sacrificial layer connects the substrate to the adjacent sacrificial layer . Alternately in an embodiment whereby a blocking layer is adjacent to the substrate an adhesive layer between the substrate and a blocking layer connects the substrate to the blocking layer . Likewise an adhesive layer between the sacrificial layers and an adjacent blocking layer connects the sacrificial layer to the adjacent blocking layer .

Preferably the one or more adhesive layers are selected to optimize the bonding between the adjacent layers. In one embodiment chromium or titanium are used as an adhesive.

Other layers may also be used with or without the one or more adhesive layer . For example in one embodiment a diffusion layer is added as a layer placed between the two adjacent layers to preferred embodiment the one or more adhesive layers serve as a diffusion layer. Preferably each adhesive layer acts as a diffusion layer and may contain such elements as nickel nichrome tantalum hafnium niobium zirconium vanadium tungsten or a combination thereof. In an alternate embodiment the one or more adhesive layers act as a diffusion layer and are made of a conductive ceramic and are preferably made of tantalum nitride indium oxide copper silicide or titanium nitride. Other functional layers may be added in place of or in addition to the adhesive layers to provide diffusion layer moderating layers support layers or functional layers to provide specific effect performance or function.

Preferably the first slice and the second slice are cut preferably using mechanical laser ion ultrasound tools or thinning by polish. Preferably the cut ends of the first slice and the second slice are polished. Preferably the first slice and the second slice are assembled and aligned in a fixture.

In the alternative the sacrificial apertures may have other shapes and configurations. For example the first slice and the second slice can be rotated at various angles such that the layers are at an angle not perpendicular from each other.

In the embodiment shown in a void is created by removing a portion of one or more sacrificial layers creating a void traveling along the length of each sacrificial layers . This embodiment may be beneficial since the remaining part of each sacrificial layer may provide structural support to prevent collapse of one or more sacrificial layers or blocking layers . This embodiment may also be beneficial as the radiation passing through the void may have a beneficial impact when reacting with the sacrificial layers which is not part of the void as well as with the blocking layers . For example having various walls for the radiation may be beneficial in waveguides or other situations where it may be desirable for radiation to bounce within or interact with the interior of the void and the adjacent remaining sacrificial layers and blocking layers .

The void may run through the sacrificial layers at alternative locations. For example in one embodiment the void runs adjacent to a blocking layer . Although only one void is shown in any number of voids may be used in any number of sacrificial layers .

In one embodiment each sacrificial layers may be composed of one or more than one homogenous element and may have a gradient in material density and other physical attributes including metals non metals intermetalics ceramics etc. whereby some or all of the radiation passing through are advantageously affected.

In this embodiment each blocking layer is preferably reflective to the radiation and the radiation is transmitted into the larger aperture of each sacrificial layer whereby the reflectivity of the sacrificial layer will focus the radiation into a focal point . Preferably each sacrificial layer has a gradient whereby at least some but not all of the radiation is allowed to pass.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 116. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

