---

title: Gifting system and method
abstract: A scheme for enabling the remote purchasing of products or services based on a recipient's location. In one embodiment, a computer-implemented method for enabling a purchaser to purchase a product or service for a specified recipient different from the purchaser includes: (a) receiving location-based information obtained from a device or token associated with the recipient; (b) generating a list of one or more possible venues based on the location-based information; (c) presenting to the purchaser, via a first communications device, the list of one or more possible venues; (d) receiving from the purchaser a selection of a set of one or more venues from the list of one or more possible venues; (e) receiving, via the first communications device, an instruction from the purchaser to purchase at least one selected product or service for the recipient, the at least one selected product or service to be provided to the recipient in person at any venue in the set of one or more venues; and (f) providing to the recipient, via a second communications device, a notification corresponding to the instruction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751319&OS=08751319&RS=08751319
owner: Cabinall Group L.L.C.
number: 08751319
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081114
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 701 506 filed on Nov. 5 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 496 527 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 423 846 filed on Nov. 5 2002 the entire disclosures of both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to the remote purchasing of products or services and more particularly to an enhanced system and method for the remote purchasing of products or services via a network wherein a buyer is permitted to indicate as specific physical location where the products or services will be claimed and identify a third party as the recipient of the products or services.

Currently there are many issues that arise for a person who would like to remotely purchase a beverage or food product or other item for someone else. First in typical cases both the purchaser and the recipient must be physically present at a venue where the purchase transaction takes place. Therefore the purchaser must be physically and temporally proximate to the target venue in order to purchase a beverage for someone at any given time.

Furthermore in many cases the person who would like to purchase a beverage may not be aware of the location of a suitable venue or more acutely may not have information about the specific venues that the intended recipient considers suitable. In addition even once the location of a venue suitable for purchasing a beverage in has been identified there is in some cases a lengthy process of physically locating the venue and in some cases a situation in which the venue is closed too busy or otherwise inaccessible.

Another issue facing a purchaser trying to go through this process is the fact that if the purchaser locates the venue travels to the venue and the venue is open there is no means of purchasing a beverage for another person without them physically being present at the time of purchase. In most cases there are no means to purchase a beverage for a later date whereby the recipient of the beverage is able to collect the purchased beverage later that day or on even another day altogether.

The above issues are multiplied if a person wants to buy several beverages for several different persons in different venues and on different days. The purchasing process would have to be repeated several times and in the case where one would like to make several purchases at widely dispersed locations at roughly the same time it therefore becomes an unattainable goal.

One known solution to these problems would be to telephone or visit a venue provide payment and make an arrangement with staff at the venue for the recipient to claim said beverage at a future date. This solution would also require alerting the recipient in enough detail to claim the beverage and the venue in enough detail to positively identify the recipient. This solution suffers from the amount of effort and time involved uncertainty about properly informing the recipient uncertainty about whether the venue will truly honor the purchase and many of the issues such as identifying and contacting a suitable venue as described above.

Another known solution which does not relate to the scope of the invention being discussed would be to purchase a packaged form of beverage a bottle of wine a bag of dried tea that could be delivered to the recipient in any of the usual fashions. This solution does not typically involve a venue with a specific location as part of the claim transaction.

From the venue s perspective a very large problem with existing processes for purchasing drinks as set forth above is the loss of potential customers and earnings. Unless a venue has established some kind of remote purchasing service they are losing out on potentially significant revenue generating opportunities and the opportunity for repeat business from new or existing customers.

Another issue that a venue faces today is the issue of making consumers aware of its existence and establishing and maintaining relationships with existing and potential customers. As it stands today there are many means and medias for a venue to use as promotional and information tools but the fact that there are so many creates a problem for the venue of identifying the effectiveness of many of the tools. Also many of the media such as yellow page advertisements are static in that they do not provide specific feedback to the venue about their effectiveness or interactivity with a potential customer and cannot be updated frequently. Every venue wishes to be found easily using different tools but it is increasingly difficult to ensure the information is current especially e.g. if the venue hosts a calendar of events accessible and inexpensive for both venue owner and customer alike.

Other issues facing venues are the desire to increase customer traffic and revenues and the desire to reduce overall marketing costs. Currently most venues have a maximum capacity of persons set by the local authorities and thus can only increase revenues by increasing the number of patrons up to capacity by increasing throughput or by increasing the profitability of customer purchases. Given that patrons cannot be increased past capacity or throughput increased beyond a certain physical limit venue owners may be unable to increase their revenues beyond a certain point without adding new capacity or throughput capability. In addition when a location is too busy it is likely to have an adverse effect on throughput.

Therefore it is desirable to provide a process and service that reduces the amount of time and effort required by a venue to attract and process customers wherever they may be. It is also a desire on the part of venues to be empowered when using media as an advertising tool. Allowing customers to purchase beverages without physical presence assists a venue in dealing with the issues described above. Remote purchasing creates a level of service to consumers unsurpassed in the industry today.

In addition to customers and venues other agents that are party to the above process face certain difficulties. Beverage manufacturers and distributors often do not receive direct information about consumer purchases tastes and behavior from venues. When such information is received it is likely to be anecdotal rather than systematized. As well marketing activities directed at consumers are not often made directly to consumers but are proxied through the venues or various consumer focused media channels.

Marketers who would like to promote third party products to the consumers who visit these venues also do not have a way to gather information or interact directly with these consumers in a remote fashion but must be physically present and often must negotiate the right to be so with the venue owner or proxy their services through the venue owner and staff.

The present invention provides a solution to the foregoing issues as well as additional benefits e.g. freeing consumers from carrying cash into venues reducing transaction fees and financial risk for venues and increasing branding opportunities for manufacturers distributors and third party marketers.

The present invention discloses a system and method for enabling the remote purchasing of products e.g. alcoholic beverages wherein as part of the buying transaction the purchaser indicates a specific physical location venue where the product will be picked up claimed may identify a third party as the recipient of the product by providing the third party s e mail or text messaging address or another method of electronic contact optionally can attach a personalized message and various multimedia files such as photos and audio recordings to the transaction and optionally can specify the information required for recipients who are already known to the system to make an expedited return purchase using a feature known as instant reciprocity in real or near real time.

The present invention also enables other purchasing variants including e.g. barhopping purchases in which a purchase includes multiple drinks at multiple venues group purchases that enable purchasing for groups group barhopping purchases and a hint hint feature that allows an end user to push a broadcast out to his her friends or other group of users . A broadcast contains a link or other transactional pointer that enables the broadcast recipients to quickly buy a drink for the broadcaster and brand purchases wherein a venue or site is selected under the aegis of a larger brand such as a cruise line hotel chain restaurant chain or chain of pubs.

It is contemplated that a user can use a system consistent with the present invention to make a purchase for himself or herself rather than for someone else. Alternatively a single franchise e.g. a coffee chain might operate a system consistent with the invention as a single brand remote purchasing engine.

In addition the present invention discloses related systems and methods that enable descriptive listing information on participating venues such as venue address items in stock and customer ratings to be accumulated in a distributed fashion whereby the system administrator can assign distribute responsibility for individual items in the listing to different users participating in the system allowing them to individually provide manage and update the majority of their own information by interacting with the system and without requiring human mediation allowing potential purchasers end users to look up via pull searching or receive via electronic push notification specific pieces of information associated with these venues and as needed allowing the system administrator to manage the activities and content being supplied by other users.

Moreover the present invention discloses related systems and methods that enable system users dependent on user type and the parameters set by the system administrator to engage in marketing activities directed at either both end users and venues wherein such activities include e.g. generating push and pull marketing campaigns that target specific users or are activated by specific system mediated events and generating statistics and or data mining reports on users and their transactions with the system. Such efforts may be tailored to specific circumstances that take into account among other things demographics locations time and device and platform information wherein the providers of aforementioned marketing and advertising services operate as independent agents in purchasing designing or using these services but under the jurisdiction of the system administrator and system parameters and wherein both end users and venues will have various opt in preferences that will modify the delivery of these marketing and advertising services to them as individuals. Some of these marketing activities may depend on the use of radio frequency identification RFID or other short range wireless communications technologies. Furthermore some of these activities may generate data on users that is encoded in such a fashion that the new information can become the basis of future marketing activities e.g. using response rate to a campaign or answers to an encoded survey as target variables in a subsequent campaign .

Furthermore this invention includes systems and methods that use RFID or other short range sensing technologies that can read unique information stored in a chip tag or card a token carried by an end user to provide additional system functionality including e.g. expediting claim redemption by using this token in conjunction with a reader embedded in the venue claim terminal where the claim is being redeemed using the token in conjunction with a reader positioned somewhere in the venue most likely in the doorway and in conjunction with the networked nature of the venue claims terminals to create a location based service in which authorized end users can view in real or near real time the whereabouts of other token carrying users and initiate a purchasing transaction based on this information using the token in conjunction with a reader embedded in the electronic claim terminal at a venue in lieu of a traditional credit card to pay for goods. The tokens may be used for a wide variety of marketing activities marketing to users based on their location at or near one or more venues.

Also this invention includes methods for certain users to generate and manage lists of friends and groups of those friends and a permissions based system whereby a user can authorize friends or other users to view data associated with that user such as that user s instant reciprocity information or RFID location.

The present invention further may handle transaction and account balance tracking such that they can be billed and reconciled either by the system or by passing this information to a third party provider.

An exemplary implementation of a system consistent with the present invention is in the beverage spirits industry including bars restaurants lounges nightclubs and other commercial establishments that serve alcoholic beverages enabling consumers to remotely purchase beverages for themselves or other individuals at participating locations venues . The following discussion of this particular implementation of the system is meant to be illustrative of system capabilities and functionality but should not limit the application of a functionally identical but rebranded system to other industry verticals with dispersed physical locations and different types of products. Such a system may be run under both an ASP and a self host situation without any substantial modification. Further the system may support operations in which venues are fully independent business entities participating as independent agents in the system or one in which venues are related under an umbrella brand i.e. they are all franchisees of the same business .

The following table gives a broad overview of the various types of exemplary users that participate in the system and how they might interact with it 

In the presently described embodiment the end user web interface is the main public face of a remote purchasing system consistent with the invention. It is desirable that end users should first have to register with the system before being permitted to make purchases e.g. so that the system can notify the purchaser if there is a problem with the order although it is contemplated that in certain embodiments of the present invention no registration would be required. It should be recognized that references made herein to unregistered and anonymous users are only applicable to embodiments of the invention wherein registration is not required in order for a user to perform or access certain system functions.

The system follows a common client server setup supplemented by a powerful database . The primary client for all users is an Internet web browser. The system may have the capability to support additional markup languages such as WML for wireless devices via simple transforms. In addition fat client implementations for emerging wireless device platforms may be implemented to provide end users to with a richer experience. In the case of such implementations certain system resources shown in system presently located on the server will shift over to the client side. In order to participate in the system venues run a specialized piece of client software on site that allows them to receive and process purchase claims in or near real time.

A number of third party software modules may be plugged into the backend via API calls or similar mechanisms to provide additional system functionality. Such modules may include e.g. payment processing billing checkwriting and messaging .

The payment processing module may accept and process an array of credit debit cards and other types of accepted electronic currency as described in further detail hereinbelow. The billing checkwriting module may generate physical bills checks on the basis of internal system criteria as described in further detail hereinbelow. It is also possible that a system consistent with the present invention might not include a payment processing or billing checkwriting modules in which case such functionality would be handled by one or more external systems. It should further be recognized that a system consistent with the present invention may include accounting functionality whereby an account points or credit balance is kept for each user and wherein users must recharge their balance as necessary to have a sufficient balance to complete a purchase. However it is contemplated that in certain embodiments of the present invention purchases by users are made using credit or debit cards or other payment methods e.g. direct billing to a user s telephone bill on a per transaction basis. In this configuration the system may store such payment information for each user as may be appropriate and it is not necessary that the system keep track of a balance for each user. It should be recognized that references made herein to credits and balances herein are only applicable to embodiments of the invention wherein the system stores an account balance for each user.

A messaging module responsible for all system messaging will support e.g. email SMS and MMS messaging. The principal purpose of the messaging client will be to deliver claims notifications to recipients claims information to venues and transaction confirmations to purchasers.

In one embodiment the software modules might be arranged as illustrated in wherein the modules include marketing end user operations venue interface member interface third party marketers campaign manager administration accounting administration content administration user administration partner administration and master system administration. The operation of each of the foregoing modules is described in further detail hereinbelow with reference to the individual system functions.

The foregoing described system architectures and system modules are of one exemplary system consistent with the invention and it is contemplated that other system architectures and modules may be used in various embodiments of the present invention.

The concept of remote purchasing as embodied in a system consistent with the present invention is distinctive for a number of reasons including it permits a purchase in which a particular physical location or e.g. a chain of stores where a purchase may be claimed the purchaser need not be physically present at the site where the purchase is made the purchaser may designate another person as the recipient of the purchase using the recipient s messaging address as their identification the recipient of a purchase picks up their product s in person optionally the purchaser can configure their account so that a recipient can buy something in return for the purchaser with a single click instant reciprocity and the system may be adapted to handle all of the notification and billing issues to support this functionality.

In the system implementation a purchaser end user operating on a supported client first initiates the remote purchasing process e.g. through one of a number of available entry points 

As shown in the flowcharts of and and the exemplary screen view of if the end user i.e. the purchaser is registered and logged in the process begins at block and an initial determination is made at block whether the purchaser has initiated the process from the transaction history page discussed in further detail below . If not the purchaser is prompted at block whether to identify the intended recipient by name may be the recipient himself from a drop down friends list. If the recipient is not on the drop down list the purchaser is prompted at block to input the name of the recipient and the email address or cell phone number of the recipient at block other electronic contact methods may be used e.g. a pager . A check box or other simple indication not shown may be provided to permit the purchaser to add a manually entered recipient to his or her friends list. It should be noted that at least one electronic address or number for email or wireless messaging is required and that a second address may further be specified. A determination is made at block whether the purchaser initiated the buying process from a venue directory page. If not the purchaser is prompted to enter the name of the venue at block . If so the process continues at block . At block the purchaser enters the products and quantity of products to send to the recipient. At block a determination is made whether there is a sufficient credit balance to cover the purchase. If not the user may purchase sufficient credits at block . If there is already a sufficient credit balance the process continues at block . If at block the user is identifiable using the drop down list the purchaser is prompted to select the recipient from the list at block . Once the recipient is selected at block from the drop down list a determination is made at block whether there is a venue and or product associated with the recipient. If at block it is determined that there is already a venue and or product associated with the recipient then the process continues at block . If not the process continues at block for the selection of a venue. At block the purchaser may opt whether to send a message and or multimedia file to the recipient. If not the process continues at block . If so the purchaser is prompted at block to input the message. At block the purchaser is prompted whether to schedule a delivery date and time otherwise the purchase will be immediate . If not the process continues at block . If so the purchaser is prompted at block to input the date and time for the purchase to be sent. At block the purchaser is prompted whether to make the purchase recurring e.g. every x minutes daily weekly annually . If not the process continues at block . If so the purchaser is prompted to set the recurrence frequency at block . At block the purchaser is prompted to review and confirm the order and the process ends at block . If at block it is determined that the process was initiated from the transaction history page then the process continues at block for review and confirmation of the order. It should be noted that in the above process if the purchaser is a registered end user and has activated instant reciprocity as described in further detail below and the recipient s messaging address is recognized by the system the purchaser s instant reciprocity information will be included for review.

As shown in the exemplary flowcharts of and and the exemplary screen view of if the end user is unregistered the process begins at block and the user i.e. the purchaser is prompted at block to input the name of the recipient which may be the purchaser himself and the email address or cell phone number of the recipient at block . It should be noted that at least one electronic address or number for email or wireless messaging is required and that a second address may further be specified. A determination is made at block whether the purchaser initiated the buying process from a venue directory page. If not the purchaser is prompted to enter the name of the venue at block . If so the process continues at block . At block the purchaser enters the products and quantity of products to send to the recipient. A block not shown may be included to add a tip amount from the purchaser to be paid to the server of the products e.g. a bartender . At block the purchaser may opt whether to send a message and or multimedia file to the recipient. If not the process continues at block . If so the purchaser is prompted at block to input the message. At block the purchaser is prompted whether he she is also the recipient in which case the process continues at block . If not the purchaser is prompted at block to enter the purchaser s name. At block the purchaser inputs payment type and details. A check box or other simple indication not shown may be provided to permit the purchaser to store his or her payment information for use in future transactions. An additional block not shown may be further provided to permit entry of a coupon or other discount code. At block another determination is made whether the purchaser is also the recipient in which case the process proceeds to block . If not the purchaser is prompted to input the purchaser s notification address for confirmation at block . The process then continues at block for the purchaser s review and confirmation of the order and ends at block .

Successful completion of either of the above sequences will cause payment to be processed and various messages to be generated e.g. a confirmation message to the purchaser if different from recipient a claim notice to the recipient and a claim notice to the venue associated with the claim. In the case of an unregistered user making a purchase there may be a delay on notification being sent to the recipient until the charge has successfully cleared.

It should be recognized that appropriate functionality may be provided to permit a purchaser to clone an order so that the identical order or a slightly modified version thereof may later be placed without the purchaser having to reenter all of the information.

The system may be configured to streamline the buying process for an end user by prepopulating certain fields based on certain conditionals These conditionals appear in the order in which they might be addressed by the system. It is contemplated that fields will only be prepopulated once so if a field is already populated it will not be overwritten by the prepopulation triggered by a later conditional. . Exemplary conditionals include if the end user initiates the purchasing process from one of the items in their transaction history page all fields will be prepopulated with the same values as the ones in the historical transaction if the end user initiates the purchasing process from a venue search results page the venue field will be prepopulated with the selected venue and possibly the products field may be populated with a pre selected product as well e.g. drink information when identifying the intended recipient registered end users who have created a friends list will be able to select from a drop down friends list wherein if a friend is selected a number of fields will be prepopulated with the friend s information recipient name recipient messaging address and if there is information on the recipient s favorite venue and product both of these fields if the purchaser is a registered end user and has activated instant reciprocity and the recipient s messaging address is recognized by the system the purchaser s instant reciprocity information will be included for review if the purchaser is a registered end user and the total cost of the transaction is greater than said user s current account balance the user will be prompted to buy more credits e.g. they may have the option of selecting from a drop down list of previously saved payment options whose selection will prepopulate the payment fields and ask for a pin as confirmation .

In certain embodiments there is a special exception to the standard purchasing process flows described above a feature referred to herein as instant reciprocity . This feature enables the recipient of a claim to initiate an expedited reciprocal purchase to the original buyer e.g. with a single keypress . It is contemplated that the instant reciprocity feature would only be available under the following conditions both the recipient and original purchaser are registered users the original purchaser has indicated their favorite drink and venue preference as part of their instant reciprocity settings and the recipient account balance is greater than the price of the original purchaser s favorite drink or the recipient has previously stored payment information such as a credit card in the system .

As shown in for a fully connected device the transaction process begins at block . The end user in this case the recipient who will also be a purchaser for purposes of this transaction receives and reads the message sent by the initial purchaser who is about to become a recipient at block and is prompted at block whether to return a drink with the instant reciprocity option e.g. by toggling or clicking an option presented bringing the transaction up for review as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of . If the user chooses not to execute the instant reciprocity option the process ends at block . If the user chooses to execute the instant reciprocity option then at block the user is presented with the preselected venue and or product s for approval and if user selects the option that the return order presented to the user is satisfactory the process continues at block . If the return order is not satisfactory the user inputs a new venue and or product s at block which may be accomplished e.g. by the user changing the quantity product or venue by clicking a change option next to each item presented on the user s display. At block the user is prompted whether to add a message in which case the user inputs a message at block . If the user chooses no to add a message then the process continues at block . At block the user confirms the transaction and the process ends at block .

As shown in for a messaging capable disconnected device the transaction process begins at block . The end user in this case the recipient who will also be a purchaser for purposes of this transaction receives and reads the message sent by the initial purchaser who is about to become a recipient at block as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of . The user is then presented with a brief description of the instant reciprocity feature and is prompted at block whether to return a drink with the instant reciprocity option e.g. by toggling or clicking an option presented in the message bringing the transaction up for review. If the user chooses not to execute the instant reciprocity option the process ends at block . If the user chooses to execute the instant reciprocity option then at block the user is prompted to reply to the instant reciprocity message. The user confirms the transaction e.g. by entering the letter Y for yes in the body of the return text message as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of at block and the message is sent at block . The process ends at block . Alternatively a URL hyperlink or other routine may be provided whereby a single keypress or button click may be employed to activate an instance of instant reciprocity.

Prepopulation functionality as described hereinabove may also be provided for instant reciprocity information. Additionally if text messaging or email is used to activate instant reciprocity one or more of the following conditions may need to be satisfied 1 the recipient is a registered user 2 the original purchaser has indicated a drink and venue preference as part of his instant reciprocity settings and the original recipient has permission to see this information and 3 the recipient has stored payment information with the system. In this scenario it should be recognized that the system should desirably prompt the recipient to complete any data items still missing from the transaction although if all of the foregoing conditions are satisfied then no items will be missing from the transaction and the order is ready for processing without further prompting by the system and or to change any prepopulated fields provided.

It should further be noted that if the original recipient has also attended to his or her instant reciprocity settings the foregoing described process can be iterated endlessly enabling the pair involved in the transactions to send products e.g. drinks back and forth in a ping pong fashion. This iterative behavior may be slightly modified when the RFID find a friend feature described in further detail hereinbelow is implemented as part of the system. In this scenario if the original purchase transaction is initiated by finding a friend when it comes time for the original purchaser to return an instant reciprocity received from the recipient the initial purchase will be repeated until the RFID find a friend registers that the original recipient has left the venue in which he or she had been.

For example in a drink purchasing implementation a barhopping feature may be provided which would allow a purchaser to add additional venues and drinks to the basic purchase thereby creating a barhopping itinerary. Additional functionality may be provided for making the itinerary random wherein the next location is automatically randomly selected by the system and a claim notification is sent out once the previous drink has been claimed. If the purchaser indicates that he or she wishes to set up a barhopping purchase the basic venue and drink selection process would cycle until the purchaser indicates that the itinerary is complete.

As another example a group purchase feature may be provided e.g. for facilitating the purchase of drinks for a group of people at one venue. This may be achieved by using group information previously entered in the friends list i.e. the purchaser can create groups similar to e mail distribution lists. In this scenario a special interface page would allow rapid assignment of drinks to individuals or for indicating that one menu selection should be given to all members of the group. The group purchase features may be combined with the barhopping features in a single transaction.

A further example is a hint hint feature which would allow an end user to schedule and send out a broadcast message e.g. to a group of friends inviting recipients to buy him or her a particular drink at a particular venue. Acting on the hint hint would involve a process similar to that of instant reciprocity for registered users but otherwise might require an expedited registration wherein an offer to fill out a longer marketing registration would be sent to these users at a later point before recipients can complete the transaction.

Still another example is a brand purchase feature wherein a brand is any company that represents multiple venues such as a chain of brewpubs a line of cruise ships or a chain of hotels. An end user looking to make a purchase at one of these branded venues would be able to find any of these locations through the normal venue search or alternatively the end user would be able to click on a brand purchase icon which would retrieve and display a list with all of the venues associated with the brand. Once the user has made his venue selection the purchase transaction would proceed normally.

It is contemplated that a user might use a system consistent with the present invention to make a purchase for himself or herself rather than for someone else without requiring any additional functionality simply by specifying the user s own email address or phone number. Alternatively a single franchise e.g. a coffee chain might operate a system consistent with the invention as a single brand remote purchasing engine. Additionally a virtual shopping cart or basket may be provided to permit a purchaser to arrange one or more purchases and thereafter provide payment information in a single instance rather than having to do so for each individual product or service purchased. Such a shopping cart may further be configured to permit a plurality of products and or services from a plurality of venues to be purchased in a single payment transaction.

A system consistent with the present invention may be configured such that a successfully completed remote purchasing transaction as described hereinabove generates a record in the system known as a claims record. Items associated with this record may include e.g. the following data claim number set by system next available claim record number claim code random multi digit alphanumeric numeric or other claim ID used to claim the product redemption venue ID a pointer to the information about the venue where the product will be claimed products information information about the products to be claimed purchaser ID if they are a registered user a pointer to the information about the sender and if not information describing the purchaser collected during the purchasing process a message including attached files if the purchaser provided them recipient name and or ID number if a registered user a pointer to the information about the recipient and if not the information describing the recipient collected during the purchasing process date time of completed transaction date time claimed blank field indicates an open claim and purchaser recipient interface types for data mining .

The claims record may be used to build a number of different messages for delivery to various parties in the transaction. The messages may include e.g. a claims notification message a message to the recipient that identifies what has been purchased to the recipient the claim location with all the information needed to claim the purchase seek additional information or reply to the sender as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of purchaser confirmation message if the purchaser is different from the recipient a message confirming that the system has successfully processed and dispatched the claim including updating the purchaser s transaction history to show this new record and delivery of claim to venue a record delivered to the venue claims processing software in real or near real time with the claim information this information is automatically updated in the list of open claims that need redemption.

It is contemplated that to claim the product s the recipient simply visits the venue to which the claim was attached and gives a member of the staff the claim code. The venue staff member checks the code against the record in venue claims software provides the specified product s and selects the redeem option in the venue software to indicate that the claim has been processed the venue client is described in further detail hereinbelow . In the event that recipient has lost or misplaced the claim the system is configured so as to permit the venue to identify the recipient even without the claim code In certain embodiments the claim record may contain the name of the recipient so that a recipient can make a claim by showing appropriate identification . In addition both the sender and recipient can interact with the system to regenerate the claim by supplying the messaging address of the recipient the unredeemed claims tab in the user interface is described in further detail hereinbelow . Uncollected claims may remain open and active for the period of time e.g. 90 days set by e.g. the system administrator. The system may be adapted to periodically review and close unredeemed claims that have exceeded the preset collection period. The system may further be configured to send a reminder notice a certain number of days before a claim is closed in order to remind the recipient to pick up their outstanding claim.

One of the distinctive features of a system consistent with the present invention is the way it builds up and manages information about the venues participating in the system. This may be done in a distributed fashion whereby different users are responsible for inputting managing and updating their own information. Because the effort of collecting and maintaining information in the system is broadly distributed it becomes possible to provide up to the minute information on such items as daily events e.g. live music or the day s drink specials . Furthermore the distributed approach increases the likelihood that venue information is accurate and that errors are rectified efficiently. As well by pushing work out to system agents the administrator saves time and resources and can grow the directory quickly and organically.

System users primarily end users are able to look up venue records both for information purposes and as part of the purchasing process as discussed hereinabove .

In one embodiment the cluster of information about a venue that both describes it and is publicly accessible to all system users is called a listing. When a venue submits a registration to become a member of the system described in further detail hereinbelow a large part of this registration consists of items that will appear in the listing. The set of items that comprises a complete listing may be defined by the administrator listing setup is further described hereinbelow . Some of these items may be preset and locked by or under the auspices of the administrator or consist of end user generated content which the venue will be unable to change. In general however it is contemplated that the venue would be responsible for the majority of items that appear in the listing. However the listing may additionally include items generated by end users of the system such as a rating e.g. on a scale of 1 10 used to determine the top rated or top 5 for each city wherein such information should desirably be made non changeable by the venue.

It should be recognized that a listing should typically not become active and be publicly available until the system administrator approves the venue s initial registration. After this initial approval a venue can access and change venue modifiable items at any time via the venue web interface this process is described in further detail hereinbelow .

As illustrated in the exemplary screen views of items in the venue listing may include e.g. venue name address telephone email if any nearest subway or bus stop if any website URL if any hours of operation brief description venue category information products pricing schedule some may be preset and locked by administrator daily event information e.g. drink specials happy hour events schedules cover charge if any and admissions other policies 21 etc . Venue category information may be selected from lists preset by the administrator and may include e.g. type club bar restaurant typical patron type frat boy pretty girl events types live music DJs and awards Michelin stars reviews . It should be noted that for certain fields it may be desirable that only the system administrator be able to modify certain fields in the venue directory e.g. the brief description of the venue.

In a system consistent with the present invention other system users primarily end users are able to look up venue records both for information purposes and as part of the purchasing process as described hereinabove . The system supports both a string matching quick search and more precise searching in which search strings are tied to a specific field in the venue listing as shown in the exemplary screen view of . As well several views of the search results may be available e.g. alphabetical by user rating showing live events if any and showing specials if any . Some of the fields associated with a venue may comprise user generated content e.g. overall rating and the number of raters.

In an alternative embodiment a system consistent with the present invention employing a distributed directory system may be used as a discount purchasing system. In this scenario because each venue has distributed control over its own listing including products services being offered the system could be used by individual stores as a means for moving excess inventory.

Additionally multiple language support may be provided as an additional feature of these listings as well as of any other portion of the system.

A system consistent with the present invention may include marketing campaign functionality that enables system users dependent on user type and the parameters set by the system administrator to engage in a wide variety of marketing activities directed at either both end users and venues. Such activities include e.g. generating push and pull marketing campaigns that target specific users or are activated by specific system mediated event and generating statistics or data mining reports on users and their transactions with the system wherein such efforts may be tailored to specific circumstances that take into account factors such as demographics locations time and device and platform information. The providers of such marketing and advertising services may operate as independent agents in purchasing designing or using these services e.g. as Third Party Marketers and under the jurisdiction of the system administrator and various system parameters including for both end users and venues opt in preferences that will modify the individual delivery of these marketing and advertising services to them. It should be recognized that all marketing and advertising activities in a system consistent with the present invention may be achieved via marketing campaigns i.e. marketing actions or series of actions undertaken by a system user and directed at end users and or venues in the system. Additionally a variety of statistical and data mining activities may be performed based on data accumulated through the use of marketing campaigns as will be explained in further detail hereinbelow.

In an exemplary embodiment campaigns are defined by three primary traits 1 WHO i.e. the target of the action s WHEN i.e. when the action s will start and how long it will last and 3 WHAT. Through the selection of a series of functional campaign blocks from among a set of available functional campaign blocks the campaign creator builds a precise definition of the marketing action s including inputs and outputs. The concept of functional campaign blocks as contemplated by the present invention is best compared to the use of objects in object oriented programming wherein each of the functional campaign blocks like objects has a state and a set of operations to transform the state. A plurality of functional campaign blocks may be instantiated and concatenated to create a marketing campaign as described hereinbelow. Alternatively instead of using functional campaign blocks to construct a campaign the campaign creator may have the opportunity to or may be forced to choose the campaign type from a list of pre built campaign templates e.g. provided by the system administrator .

Campaigns may be performed by many types of users e.g. the system administrator members the companies providing products to venues e.g. alcohol companies venues e.g. bars and third party marketers other brands . Though the actions undertaken by these different types of users will be similar several operational differences may exist. For example only the system administrator should be able to view raw user data and all other groups should instead see category totals or summary data. The system administrator should be able to view and modify all user campaigns using a campaign manager module that permits the administrator to view campaigns e.g. by user and launch date in addition to other views. Other user types should have their registrations approved by the system administrator before they are permitted by the system to perform marketing activities. Of course different users will have different restrictions pricing schedules on their marketing activities.

As the exemplary screen view of illustrates the campaign manager may be embodied as a graphical digital dashboard through which system agents can view search and edit campaigns as well as create and schedule new campaigns. A campaign may be created from scratch using functional campaign blocks by specifying the three primary traits identify WHO the campaign will be directed at define WHEN the campaign or campaign elements will launch and be in effect and construct the WHAT of the campaign. In the exemplary screen view the campaign creator has already set the WHO and WHEN blocks of the campaign and is now working on detailing a WHAT block circled 

In order to simplify and automate the process of defining the WHO WHEN and WHAT of a campaign the system may provide campaign creators with a series of functional campaign blocks which can be mixed and matched to create an endless variety of campaigns. An exemplary set of functional campaign blocks is provided in the following table 

The WHO blocks indicate not only the targeted user but also who what is responsible for first contact with those users. The WHO blocks may include external initiation internal initiation via profile construction internal initiation via end user event and internal initiation via specific users.

In the case of external initiation the agent conducting the campaign will make first contact with the targeted users via their own external channels. For example a company might have a list of 200 000 SMS numbers and will broadcast a teaser message to those users that contains a link to an encoded form see WHAT blocks hereinbelow in the system. Because respondents to externally initiated campaigns may not yet be registered users of the system externally initiated campaigns should have a unique entry URL where the respondent will be asked if they are already a system user. If not they may need to fill out a short form registration before continuing on with the campaign.

In the case of internal initiation via profile construction the agent builds a profile of the users who will be targeted for the campaign. The items available for selection as variables in the profile include items about users gathered during registration such as sex and home city items accumulated as a result of user activities e.g. users who have made a transaction within the last 30 days or users who have made a transaction at a particular venue X and items accumulated as a result of previous campaigns e.g. new variables about taste in watches captured by an encoded marketing form see WHAT blocks below or respondents to a previous campaign x . This last source of items for profiles has two special considerations for agents building new campaigns first as part of the profile the agent will be able to select targets of a previous campaign at the level of respondents non respondents to the earlier campaign and second an agent may be allowed to divide the target population in subgroups so that different campaign texts or styles can be tested against one another for effectiveness. The agent may be able to make divisions based on random assortment or building sub profiles. When a subgroup is created the campaign elements are copied in and can then be filled out in parallel. A target profile may be constructed by using a dashboard like interface in which profile categories the data variables are dynamically derived from the table labels in the system database. Exemplary table labels may include city of residence age gender primary messaging type last transaction date preferred brand of watch respondents to prior campaign A and nonrespondents to prior campaign A. Target profiles may be constructed in a two step process first the agent selects a variable of interest such as gender to add to the profile and second the agent indicates the desired value s of that variable e.g. male . For fully encoded items this choice may be presented as a pull down list and for numeric or string items it may be an input field of the appropriate type and may include recognition of conditionals such as 

In the case of internal initiation via end user event this kind of campaign is selected to reward or provide an incentive to end users for performing certain kinds of actions in the system. Several exemplary types of events may be chosen from upon selection of this option activated registration when a user has both registered and made at least one valid transaction marketing registration when a user completes his or her opt in marketing registration this can initiate a campaign that rewards him or her for this transaction transactions encapsulate goods recipients and venues and an agent creating a campaign specifies which transaction types and the number of times an end user should engage in that transaction type to initiate the campaign this may be one way a company might perform a buy 4 get the 5th free campaign or the agent could create a campaign to reward people who make city to city transactions etc. and RFID proximity event occurs when an end user carrying an activated RFID card enters or exits a venue described in further detail hereinbelow .

In the case of internal initiation via specific users the administrator but desirably not other types of system users can select specific users for a campaign.

The WHEN blocks indicate when the campaign will run and the system logic desirably ensures that the selected WHEN is compatible with the WHAT of the campaign. the WHEN blocks may include one time a one off campaign usually a message and associated with a single date repeated at intervals when a one time campaign will be repeated wherein in addition to the start date a repeat interval is specified in days ongoing campaigns that run continuously associated with a start date date range campaigns that will run for a period of time then end associated with a start date and an end date and phased date range campaigns that will run in phases and include start dates and end dates for each round of the campaign .

The WHAT blocks are used to build the core of the campaign and are similar to objects in object oriented programming languages in that each WHAT block is described by variables whose values change in different instances of the block. The WHAT blocks may include 1 way broadcast 2 way broadcast encoded form use during purchases coupon and redeem at venue coupon.

For a 1 way broadcast a message is sent to an end user that has no reply to address using e.g. e mail MMS and or SMS message types.

A 2 way broadcast is similar to a 1 way broadcast except that this block includes variables defining where the response will go and how it will be processed.

An encoded form is a form accessed via a unique URL that the system provides. The encoding should be used to dynamically create new tables in the database that will enrich the information associated with various users. The encoding process may be expanded to include error checking parameters associated with each form item. The form may include the following exemplary fields general information e.g. form title which can be used as the database table label co sponsor logo and number of questions and information per question e.g. question label which may be used as the table column label text of question and answer encoding type with accompanying text such as single answer number single answer text string and encoded list providing number of items and item labels . Exemplary screens for designing a survey are illustrated in and fields specified may include both general information and information per question. General information might include e.g. survey title can be used as database table label date survey goes out date survey will be closed rewards points per question or for the survey as a whole target specific user profile otherwise survey will go to all users who have opted in survey text to go in the email asking the end user to respond number of prizes 0 if none any other value causes the system to select this number of end users who have completed the survey as winners and cosponsor logo. Information per question might include e.g. question label used as table column label text of question and answer encoding type e.g. single answer number single answer text string and encoded list provide number of items and item labels . By providing the foregoing information the survey text may automatically be flowed into the encoded form design template and can be assigned its own unique URL and an end user might see the survey as shown in the exemplary screen view of . Because of the tight encoding associated with surveys each survey can be described as a new data table or the extension of an existing data table in the database. This new table will be dynamically linked to the existing user profile tables in order to expand the number of fields associated with each user. In addition new table column headings may become available in the list of parameters used in future profile construction and data searching mining analysis operations described in further detail hereinbelow .

A use during purchase coupon is an electronic message similar to a claim notification that has a unique coupon ID. It may represent a discount e.g. of 10 100 off of some type of product and may be associated with a specific product and or venue though it need not be e.g. in the case of external coupons. Coupons are not automatically applied but are entered during a purchase transaction. This code can be checked to ensure that it has not been used yet and that it fulfills the associated if any conditions for the items it represents. The discount then applied to a purchase price will be billed instead to the coupon issuer. Coupons are good for a time period set during coupon creation e.g. 90 days. In addition at the time of creation it can be specified whether a coupon can be used in the case where the recipient is also the purchaser. The number of coupons to issue can also be specified.

A redeem at venue coupon is a coupon for a non system product for example a new alcoholic drink that is being promoted . Venue terminals may support the redemption of these coupons which may include variables defining the venues at which the coupon will be accepted.

A wide variety of marketing activities are all attainable by combining functional blocks. The invention should not be construed as limited to the foregoing functional block descriptions and it should be understood that new activities not specifically mentioned herein may simply be enabled by adding additional functional blocks to the set of those discussed hereinabove.

The system may alternatively or additionally be configured such that a user creating a marketing campaign provides information to the system by following a series of prompts or using pre built campaign templates provided by the administrator whereby the system determines the appropriate selection of functional blocks and automatically creates the marketing campaign. For example information for which the campaign creator might be prompted to create an exemplary push campaign as illustrated in the pre built templates of the exemplary screen views of might include campaign name internal name for the campaign target parameters sets the parameters describing the target recipients get estimate provides estimate of the cost of campaign based on current statistics result may vary from the estimate especially in the case of a time differential between campaign creation and launch set campaign cap caps the price spent on campaign set delivery date set ongoing one time if ongoing will set schedule of frequency campaign type plain text or html email messaging or both campaign category coupon or message campaign text fields for designing the campaign these obey the limits such as number of text characters for the type selected above a designer is able to cut and paste HTML and graphics into an HTML email text field show preview shows preview of campaign including administrative wrapper that goes around all items and how the campaign results will be processed. With regard to the method of processing the campaign results the system may support the following exemplary options set return address for response can be URL and no return address response information included in message body as link or other . The system then takes all of the entered information determines the appropriate functional blocks and values and creates an appropriate campaign comprising of a set of functional blocks. For example a template might be permitted for a venue to push message event notification to recent patrons last 30 days . In this scenario the template would automatically set the WHO to internal initiation via profile construction selecting those patrons who have redeemed a claim at the venue in the last 30 days. The WHEN would automatically be set to one time but might still prompt for the date the message goes out. The WHAT block would automatically be set to 1 way broadcast. It should be noted that although the template may automatically make block selections and preset some of the values for variables associated with the blocks other items such as the message text may still need to be filled out by the agent selecting the template.

Another example of a marketing campaign might be a reward point program that allows participating end users to accumulate reward points which can be redeemed for various rewards may be created using internal initiation via end user event as the WHO block and ongoing event as the WHEN block combined with a WHAT functional block designed to handle accumulation of reward points and e.g. transmission of point balances and available rewards to an end user. In such a program exemplary events triggering accumulation of points might include an end user completing a purchase transaction a new end user registering and completion of an opt in marketing survey. It is contemplated that venues third party marketers and or the administrator could all list rewards in the system and for venues and third party marketers it may be desirable to have a monthly fee associated with posting a reward. The system may be configured to permit a venue or third party marketer creating a reward to supply information such as that shown in the exemplary screen view of and the system may use that information to select the appropriate functional blocks for constructing the campaign rather than the venue or third party marketer having to do so . As shown in such exemplary information might include program name internal name for reward reward name name of the reward as it will appear in the rewards listings reward description description of the reward as it will appear in the listings reward offered by whom reward offered by logo can be uploaded reward first posting date if the administrator is approving rewards it is desirable for this date to be at least a week in advance of the present date reward closing date category class from encoded list set by administrator company class from encoded list set by administrator points to redeem the reward and how the reward will be serviced. With regard to how the reward will be serviced the system may support the following exemplary options 1 to treat the reward points as a special transaction credit to the user and debit to the party offering the reward wherein that credit can be bounded to a venue or an administrator locked product 2 to connect the user to an external URL for redemption wherein the end user s transaction ID can be forwarded to this URL and the system can support validation querying through an XML SOAP API or similar protocol in this case the party offering the reward will be responsible for reward redemption or 3 send the user a reward coupon to their preset messaging address it is desirable that this information NOT be passed on to the venue or third party marketer wherein each coupon has a unique ID associated with it and the agent providing the reward may access print an alphabetized list of IDs through its respective interface.

A further example of a marketing campaign might involve a buy n get nth free feature which could be used by a brewing company to promote its beer by giving a user the 5beer at no cost after buying four beers. In this case the WHO would be internal initiation via end user event wherein the transaction is associated with the particular brand of beer. The WHEN might be ongoing. The WHAT would be a single block i.e. the use for purchase coupon set at 100 discount and associated with the corresponding brand of beer.

It should be understood that campaign based marketing activities as described hereinabove are desirably used to generate augment and enrich stored data regarding the users of the system to permit such data to be used for a wide variety of marketing purposes i.e. that further generate and augment user data thereby creating a feedback loop. Such data may be accumulated both via event mediated activities of users e.g. purchase history or entrance into a venue see RFID discussion hereinbelow and via profile building activities e.g. a user s profile data or answers to surveys.

A system consistent with the invention may support three exemplary main types of data mining searching and statistics functionality 1 data searching or mining that identifies a subset of users based upon search criteria set by the user as used e.g. in creating a marketing campaign as described hereinabove 2 descriptive and comparative statistical analysis including graphical representations of system data and 3 predictive analysis and mining of system data to identify undiscovered relationships and perform basic forecasting.

It is contemplated that a system consistent with the invention may accumulate three types of interrelated raw data for storage in one or more databases. This data includes user data descriptive data directly associated with a user of some kind e.g. registration information on users and venue listings information transaction data records associated with transactions which records are linked with user data through the users and venues that participate in each transaction and campaign data a specialized form of user data including which users were contacted or participated in various campaigns and for campaigns using encoded forms the new user data associated with that form .

In addition to the user data collected on registration and through transactions the database schema may include various internal data sets associated with users in order to facilitate the data mining process. Such variables may include e.g. for end users date of registration date of most recent activity total transactions initiated total transactions received date of last marketing activity received and date of last marketing activity responded to for venues date of registration date of most recent system activity date of most recent transaction and total transactions processed and for members and or third party marketers date of registration date of most recent system activity date of most recent transaction and total transactions processed.

Data searching or mining that identifies a subset of users based upon certain search criteria In its simplest form the identification of a subset of users based upon search criteria is not really data mining at all as much as a search of database records. An element of mining does however enter into more complex searches where the agent performing the search may choose to treat the search criteria as a profile that will serve as the basis for including excluding records using data mining techniques. Data searching may take place under two exemplary circumstances depending on the end user In the first case a venue third party marketer or administrator wishes to engage in a marketing campaign as described hereinabove. In the second case the administrator wishes to isolate a subset of the data for analysis. The architecture may support the export of this data as either an ASCII tab delimited file or other common data file type . In both cases the agent performing the search will construct a target profile by selecting from any of the data variables labels in the system. The list of variables might include the following exemplary data venue location geographic data e.g. town city purchaser demographics e.g. age primary messaging type recipient demographics e.g. language sex and transaction information including time chronographic data e.g. time sent redemption time . Target profiles may be built in a two step process which may be done e.g. using the campaign manager First the agent will select a variable of interest such as gender to add to the profile. Then the agent will indicate the desired value of that variable such as male . For fully encoded items this choice will be presented as a pull down list for numeric or string items it will be an input field of the appropriate type but will also recognize conditionals such as 

Descriptive and Comparative Statistical Analysis Once a data set has been isolated the system may support the generation of descriptive and comparative statistics especially graphical representations on the basis of this data. Such analysis may take place under three exemplary main circumstances 1 venues third party marketers and the administrator planning a marketing campaign are able to view summary statistics showing the total number and percent of records that matched the search profile as well as the number and percent of records matching each of the search items 2 venues and third party marketers are able to examine a fixed set of summary statistics regarding their own transactions such as claims transactions or the results of an advertising campaign in the system and may be able to compare those results against an average baseline and 3 the administrator is able to perform direct statistical analysis of the data or a selected subset of the data. This functionality may include e.g. univariate and multivariate correlation analysis graphing of univariate multivariate data including distribution of Y and time series plots fit Y by X modeling multivariate fit modeling regression and nonlinear analysis and time series analysis including forecasting models.

Predictive Analysis and Mining of Data The system may also support predictive analysis and mining. Some of the following exemplary data mining techniques may be supported dependency detection and prediction techniques identifying relationships especially dependent ones from among the data classification and clustering isolating distinct segments and groups from the data on the basis of driving variables market basket analysis processing transactional data in order to find those groups of products that are sold together well one also may search for directed association rules identifying the best product to be offered with a current selection of purchased products and deviation detection a task of determining the most significant changes in some key measures of data from previous or expected values . This type of analysis may take place under the following exemplary circumstances by the administrator to better identify trends and patterns in the data as well as to make forecasts about transactions and to generate recommendations of various kinds e.g. to end users as a recommend one feature to help locate venues they would like based on their profile to venues to recommend the number type price of products to include for sale through the system or to users engaged in marketing activities to suggest potential targets for a greater chance of success .

Alternatively or additionally further export functionality may be provided to permit certain users e.g. the system administrator with functionality related to viewing isolating analyzing and exporting specific sections of data for mining or analysis in other e.g. statistical software packages. This functionality may include providing various users with pretabulated and or graphed statistics dynamically using column labels for use in marketing campaigns initiated via profile construction allowing the system administrator to search view and export a subset of data via a similar process of profile construction e.g. as ASCII or tab delimited files and allowing the system administrator to view items in the database directly.

Radio frequency identification RFID systems represent a relatively new non line of sight alternative to traditional identification systems e.g. barcode and barcode reader systems. A basic RFID system comprises three components an antenna or coil a transceiver with decoder and a transponder RF tag or other token electronically programmed with unique identification information. The antenna emits radio signals to activate the tag and read and write data to it. Antennas are the conduits between the tag and the transceiver which controls the system s data acquisition and communication. Since antennas are available in a variety of shapes and sizes they can even be built into a doorframe to receive tag data from persons or items passing through the door. If constant interrogation is not required the field can be activated by a sensor device. Often the antenna is packaged with the transceiver and decoder to become a reader a.k.a. interrogator which can be configured either as a handheld or a fixed mount device. The reader emits radio waves in ranges of anywhere from one inch to 100 feet or more depending upon its power output and the radio frequency used.

When an RFID tag passes through the electromagnetic zone it detects the reader s activation signal. The reader decodes the data encoded in the tag s integrated circuit silicon chip and the data is passed to the host computer for processing. RFID tags come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes. Animal tracking tags inserted beneath the skin can be as small as a pencil lead in diameter and one half inch in length. The tags are categorized as either active or passive. Active RFID tags are powered by an internal battery and are typically read write. Passive RFID tags operate without a separate external power source and obtain operating power generated from the reader. Passive tags are consequently much lighter than active tags less expensive and offer a virtually unlimited operational lifetime although they have shorter read ranges than active tags and require a higher powered reader. Read only tags are typically passive and are programmed with a unique set of data usually 32 to 128 bits that cannot be modified. Read only tags most often operate as a license plate into a database in the same way as linear barcodes reference a database containing modifiable product specific information.

RFID systems are also distinguished by their frequency ranges. Low frequency 30 KHz to 500 KHz systems have short reading ranges and lower system costs. They are most commonly used in security access asset tracking and animal identification applications. High frequency 850 MHz to 950 MHz and 2.4 GHz to 2.5 GHz systems offering long read ranges greater than 90 feet and high reading speeds are used for such applications as railroad car tracking and automated toll collection. However the higher performance of high frequency RFID systems incurs higher system costs.

The significant advantage of all types of RFID systems is the noncontact non line of sight nature of the technology. Tags can be read through a variety of substances such as snow fog ice paint crusted grime and other visually and environmentally challenging conditions where barcodes or other optically or magnetically read technologies might be useless. RFID tags can also be read in challenging circumstances at remarkable speeds in most cases responding in less than 100 milliseconds. The read write capability of an active RFID system is also a significant advantage in interactive applications such as work in process or maintenance tracking. Though it is a costlier technology compared with barcode RFID has become indispensable for a wide range of automated data collection and identification applications that would not be possible otherwise.

As implemented in a system consistent with the present invention RFID technology may be used e.g. to expedite claims processing provide a location based service i.e. find a friend and to permit an RFID card to be used as a credit card.

In order to speed up claims processing even further and eliminate the need for end users to carry claim codes around with them the use of RFID can shift the identification process to the card carried by the end user such that when the user wishes to claim a product e.g. a beverage or service he or she simply hands the venue employee e.g. bartender his or her RFID card . The venue employee waves the card in front of the short range reader at the venue terminal and this will retrieve any outstanding claims without data input thereby increasing the convenience for both parties. For this feature to work most efficiently the claim information downloaded by the venue claims terminal should desirably include the card ID of the recipient when there is one so that the central system only needs to be queried in the case that there are no matches for that ID.

The use of RFID in a system consistent with the invention can also enable location based services by combining the networked venue claims terminals with RFID technology installed in participating venues. The configuration of such services includes the RFID reader positioned near the door of the venue which notes the entrance and exit of end users who are both carrying their RFID card and who have agreed to participate in location based services. The RFID reader relays e.g. via Bluetooth this information to the venue claims terminal where it is further relayed to the central server not shown establishing a complete map of which individuals are in which venues in real or near real time. To protect user data privacy the system may be configured so as not to store such information permanently and or to overwrite or erase location data relating to an individual when the RFID sensor reads the card ID for the second time indicating the individual has left the establishment.

Further functional protections for end users may be inherent in the setup and operation of the system e.g. if a user does not sign up for or carry their RFID card with them they will not be visible to the system although other methods may be provided for logging in e.g. by having a bartender swipe the RFID card at a venue claims terminal in addition the card may have information providing multiple ways for a user who has signed up for the service to toggle this feature on and off e.g. an SMS number to which a user can send a message from the phone indicated as his or her phone messaging address which would trigger an SMS reply showing the changed status of the service or alternatively the WAP end user menu may be configured to allow an end user to turn on and off location services or alternatively the web end user menu may be configured to allow an end user to turn on and off location services.

A map based on RFID location information may be used in a system consistent with the invention to provide other services. For example location sensitive promotions may be used such as a greeting or coupon sent to an end user when they enter a particular venue. These promotions may be ongoing campaigns triggered by an RFID proximity event marketing campaigns are described in further detail hereinabove . For other registered users who have the ability to see someone s location the ability to find a friend or see what friends are actually out at the moment may be provided. This feature may be accessible e.g. under the friends tab of the end user web interface and the find a friend link in the end user WAP interface. In addition to seeing where a friend is the end user may of course initiate an expedited purchase for this friend at their current location.

Moreover an RFID card may be useable as a credit card in a system consistent with the invention wherein instead of ringing up a purchase on their own system the venue employee would indicate the total charge on the venue claims processing terminal. In this configuration the end user would desirably have to both carry the card into the venue and have a credit card on file with the system. Just as with a traditional credit card those venue claims terminals that run in a disconnected e.g. dial up mode would have to check with the system to make sure a credit card is both stored and valid.

It should further be noted that a permissions system may be used to define strictly which end users have access to location information for friends or other users i.e. whether they are able to view data associated with a given end user such as Instant Reciprocity information or RFID location information for the user whose information will be shared. Since the present invention contemplates that an end user can use a WAP mobile phone to communicate with the system when the end user logs into the web interface new permissions requests from other users may be displayed and a return email or SMS message or clicking on a link provided may be used to grant permission. Email reminders may be provided when there have been one or more permissions requests outstanding for a period of time e.g. two weeks. A secondary matching procedure may be necessary to address potential synchronization problems. For example if a user has a friend in her friends list who has registered with the system using different messaging addresses from the ones the user has entered trying to match the messaging address would result in failure. The secondary matching procedure would use alternative data such as a name match and or the friend s having bought or received a claim from the other user. It is further contemplated that there may be situations where the system could generate permissions requests automatically which could be a user selectable setting e.g. a user might want to request permission to see anyone for whom the user buys a drink. In certain embodiments a user may be able to request permission from another user only a certain number of times or at a certain interval. A permissions request can either be pending granted or denied. Once permissions have been granted it the grantor would have the ability to revoke sharing permission as well.

Further RFID card functionality may include features for activating and or requesting an RFID card to use with the system. It should also be recognized that other user identification devices may be used in a system consistent with the invention e.g. an account or identification number a charge credit debit card a loyalty affinity card a customer identification card a wand or tag or even a driver s license.

While the location based services as described herein are described as implemented using Radio Frequency IDentification RFID it should be recognized that alternative location based methodologies may be used in a system consistent with the invention e.g. Global Positioning System GPS or other wireless location services e.g. BLUETOOTH 802.11 or mobile telephony tower based triangulation. Tokens i.e. devices for RFID or other wireless technologies that may be used with a system consistent with the invention include chipless tags coil on chip devices contactless smart cards key fobs and even mobile telephones. Thus it is contemplated that many types of tokens and token detectors employing a wide range of technologies may be employed in a system consistent with the present invention.

It is contemplated that a system administrator controls the structure and operating parameters of the system as well as daily system operation and management. For day to day system operations the system administrator may access most functionality directly through a web interface. The interface may be organized into five main categories as illustrated in the exemplary screen views of account which includes editing deleting current administrators and name and password and adding a new administrator system setup user management marketing mining and system management.

System setup may include features for a system administrator to establish the system s initial structure and operating parameters and once the system is operating most of these settings will not be able to be changed. Exemplary features as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of include interface design of user registrations design of distributed directory listing and system parameters. The system interface may have an editable style sheet color palette and logo area and options may be provided for editing the style sheet color palette and logo including uploading a new logo and choice of placement . Design of user registrations may include functionality for the administrator to construct registrations for each user type by selecting from a list of supported fields. In the case of the end user there may be two registrations one to use the system and a separate registration for the rewards program. Custom fields may also be supported. In addition to selecting and ordering the fields the administrator may provide the following exemplary information for each field whether the field is required on registration for numeric fields minimum and maximum values if any for text fields minimum and maximum number of characters and for encoded fields and number of responses and labels. For the design of distributed directory listing the administrator may construct a directory listing by selecting fields from a list. Venue items in the listing may automatically be included in the venue registration. The system may also support custom listing fields. The following exemplary information may be provided for each item selected if not implicit the user type who can modify this field certain fields associated with encoded responses that may require the administrator to set the number of encoded responses and attach labels to the responses for custom fields the administrator may have to supply the field name the data type and associated encodings if any whether the field will be preset with a response and if preset whether it is locked whether the item is required or not and an important part of this process will be structuring the fields describing the products that can be purchased through the system. The administrator may encode the product subcategories. When a slot for a product is added to the listing the administrator can attach it to a particular subcategory or let a venue put a product of any type into the field. System parameters which may be subdivided into general campaign purchase and account parameters may also be set by the administrator. For example general parameters might include countries banned from participating in the system. Campaign parameters might include the total number of open campaigns allowed the days in advance all campaigns must be scheduled so that the system administrator can receive each campaign mailing in advance of the community and for each user group venue member third party marketer the number of campaigns allowed per individual the base cost per person per campaign for MMS SMS and e mail and the additional cost per variable for MMS SMS and e mail. Purchase parameters might include the surcharge per transaction the length of time in days before an open claim is closed 90 days the number of days before a claim is closed to send reminder notice i.e. 0 days means no notice will be sent and the number of bad transactions or bad cards before an end user is banned from the system. Purchase parameters may also include for those users who are new e.g. in the first month of service a cap on the user s first transaction a cap on any single transaction thereafter and a cap for total purchases in a 48 hour period and for users who do not store cards on file but have made a purchase that cleared more than a month ago and a cap for any single transaction a cap for total purchases in a 48 hour period and for those users who have stored cards on file and made a purchase with the currently stored card more than a month ago a cap for any single transaction and a cap for total purchases in a 48 hour period. Account parameters may include for each user group venue member third party marketer the registration fee if any monthly fee if any the frequency of account reconciliation probably every 2 weeks the minimum value of an account balance to lead to a transaction the maximum coupon debit allowed coupons may be good for up to e.g. a maximum of 90 days and the maximum outstanding account balance wherein when exceeded either immediate reconciliation or a freeze on account might occur .

User management functionality may include the following exemplary features for interacting with system users as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of manage approvals an interface allowing the administrator to review and grant deny items for approval that can be viewed by category type e.g. venue third party marketer registration push campaigns rewards closing of accounts manage accounts an interface allowing the administrator to manually activate freeze close a user s account wherein a deactivated account will fail at login in addition there may be a list of banned messaging addresses wherein if the address corresponds with a user account the account is automatically frozen and communications an interface allowing the administrator to select user group or subset category to deliver a message to wherein messages are be processed to the default messaging contact address associated with the user record .

Marketing and mining functionality may include the following exemplary tools for marketing to users and mining system data as illustrated in the exemplary screen views of promotions including an itemized list of promotions wherein the user can view active or all and can modify a service that has not been delivered delete cancel a service that has not been delivered user the service as a template for new and view summary statistics for services that have been delivered create a new promotion as either a push campaign specifying a coupon message and or survey or a reward system and data mining including capabilities to view search data export data and perform analysis and mining described in further detail hereinbelow .

System management functionality may include the following exemplary tools for managing monitoring the system as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of system monitoring maintenance allows the administrator to check uptime and performance responsiveness of server software communications with venue client software and messaging and system activity maintenance functionality may allow system components to be taken offline without affecting other components scaling load balancing a setting that allow for load balancing and scaling of the system across multiple machines and performance reports testing system performance or responsiveness testing modules .

In the case of a self host business model the system administrator may be responsible for selecting and integrating third party solutions to the system. Of course the system administrator is likely in most cases to have access to the core system code and hardware thereby enabling an administrator that wants to add functionality or equipment to the system directly to do so by modifying the codebase or system equipment.

Several kinds of financial transactions may take place in a system consistent with the present invention and it is contemplated that such a system may handle payment processing for purchases or various system fees or alternatively that such functionality is handled externally or by a third party provider. System fees may include e.g. one time registration fees and or ongoing monthly fees. User may also incur fees as they buy services and when coupons they have issued are used by end users during transactions. Likewise account balances may be kept for venues which may be credited for goods they provide and may be paid by the system. It is contemplated that such venue accounts would be reconciled biweekly and funds transferred if the owed balance is higher than a level set by the administrator. At the time of reconciliation the system may also generate an e mail to the venue indicating which products have been given out to assist the venue with reordering supplies.

In general during reconciliation periods it is desirable that the system would bill a credit card associated with an account for debits and to credit that card or perform an electronic fund transfer to accounts with credits in order to minimize human interaction. In certain embodiments it is possible in the case of members and third parties that invoices would have to be generated and payments collected manually and in this scenario the administrator is provided with a mechanism for manually adjusting balances to reflect payments received.

It is contemplated that transactions that take place in a system consistent with the present invention may or may not involve direct payment processing. The system may maintain a series of account balances associated with individual users venues and third party marketers whereby as transactions flow through the system these balances are adjusted e.g. as illustrated in table below . This methodology may be employed in order to guarantee better service and reduce fraud risk. Operating under the parameters set by the system administrator these balances may be periodically examined and if they meet certain criteria are cleared via a reconciliation process that initiates billing or payment processing. The following table provides a set of exemplary transactions that might take place in the system 

In order to prevent fraud on the part of individuals making anonymous one off transactions the system administrator is able to cap the total of each anonymous purchase. In addition because the recipient is captured in the claim record the administrator is also able to cap how many anonymous transactions a single recipient can receive in a twenty four hour period. Finally the system may keep track of recipient messaging addresses in cases where the payment information later proves to be fraudulent or contested. The administrator is able to set the number of repeat incidents that cause these addresses to be banned from the system. The administrator may also be able to set caps for new users e.g. during a probationary period for users who do not have stored payment in the system and may be able to block the use of credit or debit cards originating from certain fraud prone countries.

With the exception of anonymous end users and registered end users who choose to re enter their payment information each time they wish to transact the system may be adapted to store payment information for each system user. This information will generally be collected at the time of registration and may be changed at any time by the system user login is required . This information will be used in processing payments or generating bills associated with the account.

For individual payment processing and account reconciliation certain transactions in the system result in immediate individual payment processing or account reconciliation e.g. when a registered end user purchases credits when an anonymous user makes a one off transaction and when a venue or third party marketer account balance crosses a threshold set by the administrator. For batch processing and account reconciliation excluding the special cases that prompt individual processing account reconciliation and accompanying payment processing billing may normally be done in batches at a frequency and under the parameters set by the administrator. A reconciliation will generate a batch of payments requiring electronic payment processing a batch of payments for physical billing and a batch of payments for check generation. In addition it will produce itemized log files for each of the accounts that have been reconciled. The system may connect to a third party solution provider via an Application Programming Interface API to provide billing both electronic and physical distribution as well as a check printing and distribution service. The solution can support e.g. debit credit card processing direct deposit withdrawal and possibly online payment mechanisms e.g. PAYPAL . It is contemplated that all parties are able to access their account balance on a real time basis login is required through the users respective system interface .

It is contemplated that in a system consistent with the present invention end users are able to access the system through a variety of clients including but not limited to a web browser on a desktop or laptop computer a WAP browser on a smart phone a phone based automated voice system and a wireless fat client application such as a J2ME application.

A menu of exemplary features is illustrated in the exemplary screen views of . It should be recognized by those skilled in the art that not all features will be available on all clients and some features are conditional on the basis of such criteria as whether the user is registered and logged in or using the system anonymously whether the user currently has open claims in the system and whether the user has entered information required to activate some of the more advanced functionality as discussed in further detail hereinbelow .

Exemplary main menu options in one embodiment of the invention are home for login and registration as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of account browse venue directory make a remote purchase unredeemed claims friends and rewards program.

In embodiments of the present invention requiring user registration the home menu may only support end users who have previously registered in the system. In this scenario unregistered users and recipients of drinks may be guided to a link where they can take a tour of the system or register both touring and registration may first require that a user certifies he or she is of legal drinking age in an alcoholic beverage implementation of the present invention using an interface such as that illustrated in the exemplary screen view of . Also new promotions announcements advertisements and other information may be displayed at this menu. Cookies may be used to permit registered users to skip the home page entirely and bookmark subpages. Appropriate functionality may be provided for users who have forgotten their userID and or password wherein the system looks up the user by primary messaging address and sends a new password to that account.

An exemplary account menu may provide the following selectable options profile and payment. The profile submenu as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of provides the following selectable options name user ID password WAP client PIN and phone email messaging addresses. Multiple messaging addresses may be specified and one should desirably be a valid phone or email messaging address the primary address for receiving claims and a preferred address may be marked as such. The payment submenu shows current balances and provides the following selectable options add delete payment information as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of e.g. credit card up to 2 may be specified with primary indicated wherein each payment type has a pin used as a confirmation and to access purchase more credits set up automatic debit on off recharge to b when balance goes below c or automatically charge d each month to primary payment type and transaction history as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of e.g. last 50 purchases unsent claims recurring claims . The transaction history selection may further provide options to repeat this purchase or make this purchase recurring or modify can only be done if claim is unsent or recurring edit or cancel a purchase. An alternative transaction history screen view .

An exemplary browse venue directory menu may provide the following selectable options initiate purchase rate this venue only available to registered users on a scale of 1 5 and provide feedback about this venue. Venue directory functionality may include using a search field to enter the name of a venue or city selecting a city from a city list or clicking on a location on a map graphic e.g. as shown in the exemplary screen view of . Once a city is selected a map of the city may be displayed as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of from which a user may select a venue or a region or neighborhood for larger metropolitan areas wherein a user would next be shown a map of the region or neighborhood from which a venue may be selected e.g. as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of . Alternatively a user may select a venue list by category e.g. pub bar restaurant club late night top rated top 5 for city gay lesbian . A venue list is then shown including brief descriptions of the venues as well as detailed venue information. This may be shown for example using symbols next to the name of the venue indicating certain information e.g. top rated top 5 of ratings for the city restaurant dining pub bar or club open late gay lesbian bisexual as well as drink and or food menu pricing for the selected venue. A user selectable button or other feature is desirably located on the venue information screen as well so that a user may initiate a basic purchase.

Selecting the make a remote purchase option is another way of initiating the purchasing process as described above and illustrated in 

An exemplary unredeemed claims menu may provide the following selectable options resend claim and show the venue information page. If the user is an unregistered user the system will prompt them for the messaging address where they received the claim.

An exemplary friends menu may provide the following selectable options instant reciprocity settings as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of which may include e.g. select replace my favorite venue and or product hint hint submenu wherein the user broadcasts a message to someone else to purchase something for him her and a friends list submenu. The hint hint submenu provides options to add delete and modify an event as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of which may comprise the following five exemplary fields type birthday anniversary custom text reminder message selected venue and product automatically fills in instant reciprocity values recipients and send date with an option to make it recurring . Alternatively a hint hint screen may appear as shown in the exemplary screen view of . As shown in an exemplary screen view comprises a list of scheduled events. The friends list submenu may comprise the following options settings and view friends list. Settings for the friends list may include making the user s profile public private when a user adds friends or imports the system looks for messaging address matches with other system users and if it finds a match and the profile is public the friend record will be replaced by a pointer to the friend s i.e. the other user s information thereby allowing for dynamic reflection of changes and whether to automatically add anyone who purchases a product for the user to his friends list. The view friends list functions as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of may include add a friend with fields for name one or two messaging addresses with the primary address indicated and venue drink they like import addresses from external address book e.g. Microsoft ENTOURAGE or OUTLOOK wherein fields needed by the system are extracted i.e. name messaging addresses cell phone secondary email delete a friend and making editing and deleting groups of friends. In addition to manual entry of information into the friends list a drag and drop interface may be provided for adding single or multiple entries to the friends list from other software packages e.g. Microsoft ENTOURAGE or OUTLOOK . At a minimum it is contemplated that the following exemplary fields would be part of each entry in the friends list first name last name email messaging address and or phone messaging address. Additional functionality may be provided at the friends list menu such as a graphic of a map with dots plotted thereon in each city country region or neighborhood where the user has a friend or group member along with the display of a list of all friends and groups as shown in the exemplary screen view of . Other functionality may include a feature for locating a friend who is at a venue by using RFID find a friend to bring up a list of all friends found and then viewing a plot of them on a global map . An exemplary displayed list of friends and or groups is shown in the exemplary screen view of . From the friends list the user may select a friend and then perform functions such as seeing their location and instant reciprocity information if the user has permission to do so initiating a purchase for the friend including pre population of fields to the extent possible editing the listing for that friend requesting permission to see their location instant reciprocity information and deleting the friend from the list. From the groups list the user may initiate a group purchase including pre population of fields to the extent possible edit the group i.e. add delete members or delete the group. Other friends functionality may include changing sharing permissions settings e.g. automatically granting permission to anyone who has made a purchase for the user or making the user visible i.e. granting permission to all users in the system approving or rejecting pending permission approvals turning all approvals on off and turning an individual approval on off.

As mentioned above not all of the above functionality is made available for all clients. The chart below details the functionality that might be available on various exemplary clients and under various exemplary circumstances 

A system consistent with the present invention may also provide end users with the ability to access the system via a telephone call. Two methods of implementation are contemplated. First such access could be handled through a call center. In this case call center agents equipped with computers will access as a proxy for taking and entering orders and responding to information requests. A second less expensive method of implementation calls for using a touchtone and or voice driven automated call system. Instead of providing the menu functionality described above a script or map of the automated voice menu system might provide the following limited exemplary functionality 

It is contemplated that end users may have a number of ways to become registered members of the system. They can choose to register when they initiate a purchase process as part of their response to a claims notification and via an invitation initiated by a registered user. Registering gives the end user a number of advantages it eliminates some of the data entry required during purchasing responding to transactions it allows the end user to make real time purchases instead of having to wait for the charge to clear and it allows the user to personalize the system in various ways e.g. build friends list setting alerts for events birthdays anniversaries opting into and receiving information about special offers from third party marketers or venues and so on.

As described hereinabove the administrator defines the information end users need to provide during the registration process and parameters affecting end user system use. Exemplary end user information that might be required at registration as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of includes e.g. user ID user password payment type and information and optionally the capability to keep such information on file along with additional payment settings number of credits they wish to purchase initially there may be a system minimum contact information at least a valid email address and possibly may supply up to 3 messaging addresses including a telephone number for SMS text messaging and or MMS communications . Additionally country and language information may be gathered manually or automatically. The user might also be able to perform the opt in marketing registration and enter instant reciprocity information and referral information. Further at the time of registration functionality may be provided to permit importation of phone numbers and or email addresses into a friends list. Demographic and marketing information may further be collected either at the time of registration or at a later time. Such additional exemplary information may include personal information and other settings as illustrated in the exemplary screen views of . Personal information captured during the opt in marketing registration may include language country state postal code gender age occupation income whether user is planning to switch jobs in the next 6 months favorite magazines frequency of drinking daily weekly etc. whether the user owns or rents a home favorite designer brands from a list frequency of going out favorite travel destination by country favorite sports by type favorite music type by genre favorite TV shows by category favorite brand of watch by type and favorite car by manufacturer type . Initial reward opt in settings may include periodic surveys in which the user can win prizes on off to which address number week hours available coupons on off to which address number week hours available and other offers on off to which address number week hours available . Users will be able to opt in out and change this information either during registration or at any point thereafter.

In order to activate instant reciprocity functionality the end user will have to designate certain information e.g. a favorite venue and product from that venue described in further detail hereinabove .

As described hereinabove the administrator typically approves venues that wish to join the system and the information they need to provide during the registration process. In addition to becoming registered members of the system it is desirable that participating venues be required to install and run the client software necessary for processing claims on site. The software should therefore run on a device that has a continuous connection with the system s central server via the TCP IP protocol. Venues may access the system via one of two exemplary interfaces a web interface for registering and managing the account including accessing most services and a claims software interface for receiving and processing claims transactions.

The venue web interface may provide the following exemplary features grouped into the categories of account venue directory listing claims marketing and contact administrator. Account information may include profile payment and close account options. Profile options may include contact information an area to modify contact name and details and employee user IDs and passwords an area to add delete users and edit passwords and whether the employee is a manager . Payment options may include current system balance includes next anticipated billing payment date pay it now a feature for manually initiating payment in case of a debit balance payment information an area to modify payment type and details tax ID number and transaction history which may include features such as show transaction summaries and export transaction data . The close account feature clears the balance and makes the account inactive and may require approval from an administrator . A venue directory listing option that might be provided is the ability to modify the listing. Claims options may include open claims itemized list of all open claims cancel refund claim per system administration guidelines history e.g. last 120 days of redeemed claims reopen claim if accidentally redeemed export data and view and or export summary statistics. Marketing options may include campaigns itemized list of activities including associated schedule details and pricing information modify allows a service that has not been delivered to be modified or cancelled delete cancel use as a template for new campaign and for campaigns that are complete view summary statistics. A contact administrator function may further be provided.

The system may be configured so that users with an employee ID will not be able to access the venue interface at all unless the venue operator indicates under preferences that they are a manager. If so they may only be able to access the venue directory listing tab of the interface.

It is contemplated that the venue claims software is run in real time to process claims at the venue site. The software should therefore be running on a device capable of receiving incoming data about claims via the TCP IP or messaging protocol at real or near real time. The venue claims software should require a userID or employee ID and password to be activated. The venue client software may include the following exemplary menus and features grouped into preferences and claims functions. Preferences may include connection type speed batching allows for completed claims to be batched and uploaded to the system asynchronously and display claims default sorted by time present day s only and other options for the claim display also whether when closed claims should no longer be displayed . When the user selects an option to change claims functions the application may load to this point and display open claims and the following exemplary claim functions as set in the display claims preference search string sort by time by date alphabetically by number redeem indicates the product has been redeemed by the recipient cancel refund according to system administrator presets and reopen if a claim has been accidentally closed .

Users with an employee ID should not be able to access the preferences tab in the client software unless they have been designated under preferences that they are a manager. In addition only employees who have been designated as managers should be able to cancel refund and reopen claims.

Exemplary venue information that may be required at registration includes user ID owner password employee IDs and passwords gives employees access to the events calendar in the web interface and to the claims software contact name and details business name billing address and payment details including tax ID number and venue listing information including specific products and prices listing information is available to other system users as described hereinabove .

In certain embodiments the foregoing described venue interface functionality may be implemented using one or more specially configured venue claims terminals located in a venue through which all of the foregoing described venue functionality in particular purchase claim notifications to the venue may be directly implemented. It should be recognized that the venue claims terminal may be coupled to or integrated into an existing point of sale system using appropriate hardware and or software.

In one embodiment using the venue claims terminal begins with the user being presented an initial login home screen showing two user selectable buttons begin claim processing and preferences. Clicking on begin claim processing should cause a disconnected modem terminal to begin its dialup cycling while the venue administrator or employee logs in with his or her userID. The preferences button may be used by the venue administrator to change connection type and or speed information e.g. dialup Ethernet dialup numbers and backup numbers and other processing options e.g. whether employees need to type their user ID each time they process a transaction and whether the terminal will accept RFID cards as credit cards.

In the claims processing mode several buttons are presented to the user for selection. If employees need to supply their user ID per transaction they should be prompted for this information immediately after selecting any of active buttons claim coupon upload download credit help correct error and logout. The claim button allows the employee to type in the claim code. If the claim is not in the terminal memory this will initiate an automatic communication with the central system to find the record. After the claim has been brought up the employee hits a redeem button to close the transaction and return to the claims processing home screen. The coupon button allows an employee to enter in a redeem at venue coupon number. After the coupon has been called up the employee hits a redeem button to close the transaction and return to the claims processing home screen. When the upload download button is selected and the claims terminal is in dialup mode the terminal initiates an upload download of new information with the core system whereas this information may be updated in real time if the terminal is always connected to the system e.g. via Ethernet . The credit button may be used to initiate a purchase where the RFID card is used as a credit card. The amount of the purchase will be keyed in and then the terminal will ask for the card to be held up to the reader. After checking with the central system the screen will indicate whether or not the card has been accepted. The help button may provide phone numbers for support. The correct error button may allow the venue manager to review recently redeemed or closed transactions either to visually review and correct an error or to reopen a transaction. The log out button exits processing mode and modem dialing.

As discussed hereinabove if a short range RFID reader is provided with the venue claims terminal a patron may e.g. hand his or her RFID card or other token to a bartender who waves the RFID card in front of the short range reader and all claims associated with the user may be shown or if none are found an automatic communication with the central system may be initiated . A venue might also provide its employees with RFID cards or other tokens that may be used to identify the employee in addition to or instead of the employee being prompted for login password information.

Third party marketers should be registered users in order to participate in marketing advertising and data mining activities. As previously described the administrator typically approves third party marketers who wish to join the system and sets the information they need to provide during the registration process. It is contemplated that third party marketers should be able to access the system and their data only through a web interface and after supplying a valid user ID and password. The third party marketer interface may include the following exemplary menus and features Account marketing and contact administrator. Account information functions may include profile information e.g. contact information with an area to modify the contact name and details payment and close account. Payment features may include current system balance includes next anticipated billing payment date pay it now a feature for manually initiating payment in case of a debit balance payment information an area to modify payment type and details and transaction history including show detailed summary and export data . The close account feature which may require administrator approval clears the balance and makes the account inactive. Marketing options may include campaigns itemized list of activities including associated schedule details and pricing information modify allows a service that has not been delivered to be modified or cancelled delete cancel use as a template for new campaigns and for campaigns that are complete view summary statistics. A contact administrator function may further be provided. Exemplary third party marketer information that may be required at registration as illustrated in the exemplary screen view of includes unique third party ID assigned by system and used as system identifier user ID password contact name and details business name business address and details including tax ID number and payment type and details typically an electronic fund transfer number .

It should be understood that although most purchases made using a system consistent with the invention will involve the specification of a certain product recipient and physical location it is contemplated that purchases may be made without specifying a product recipient or physical location. For example instead of specifying a product a purchaser might be able to specify a credit of a particular monetary amount that may be used at one or more venues as an electronic gift certificate or a bar tab . Alternatively it is conceivable that a purchaser might use the system to buy a product or service for himself or herself in which case there is no third party recipient. In another scenario instead of specifying a single physical location the purchaser might be able to specify a plurality of possible physical locations or a chain of establishments e.g. of restaurants pubs or consumer electronics stores whereby the recipient could go to any of the establishments in the chain to claim a product or service rather than only a single physical location.

Further functionality may be provided to support emerging technologies and in particular wireless technologies. For example it is anticipated that a system consistent with the invention might extend the functionality of claims to allow for claim notification to the recipient via the Multimedia Messaging channel MMS or picture messaging . Specific functionality may include the ability for the purchaser to attach a live picture video and short audio clip and or short animated video or themed picture to the claim notification. It is also anticipated that a system consistent with the invention will support a fat client device native implementation of the system interface for end users that provides them with functionality as full as that currently available through the web interface. The system may also support location based e.g. GPS or RFID technologies that allow an end user to pinpoint the location of a friend in order to ensure more precision in choosing a location. Also a venue search feature may be provided wherein users can ask which venues are close to their current location based on a location based reading taken. It is further contemplated that network enabled terminals or other communications devices e.g. touch screen kiosks may be operated in some venues or other physical locations to facilitate the use of a system consistent with the invention for certain users e.g. individuals without their own personal PDA wireless phone or similar device.

It should be noted that although the exemplary system described herein is adapted for the remote purchase of beverages the purchase of all types of products other than beverages is contemplated. Further the use of the term products herein is not meant to be interpreted as limiting the invention to products and it should be noted that the present invention may easily be adapted for the remote purchase of services as well as products. Also the term messaging address should be interpreted broadly as including email addresses telephone pager SMS or MMS numbers including telephone numbers at which a user might be contacted using a synthesized or recorded voice message and all other identifiers that may be used to address an electronic communication to a user.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that although the functional components of the exemplary embodiments of the system of the present invention described herein may be embodied as one or more distributed computer program processes data structures dictionaries and or other stored data on one or more conventional general purpose computers e.g. IBM compatible Apple MACINTOSH and or Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor based computers mainframes minicomputers conventional telecommunications e.g. modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL satellite and or Integrated Services for Digital Network ISDN communications memory storage means e.g. Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM and storage devices e.g. computer readable memory disk array direct access storage networked together by conventional network hardware and software e.g. Local Area Network or Wide Area Network LAN WAN network backbone systems and or Internet other types of computers and network resources may be used without departing from the present invention. One or more networks discussed herein may be a local area network wide area network internet intranet extranet proprietary network virtual private network a TCP IP based network a wireless network e.g. IEEE 802.11 or BLUETOOTH an e mail based network of e mail transmitters and receivers a modem based telephonic network an interactive telephonic network accessible to users by telephone or a combination of one or more of the foregoing.

The invention as described herein may be embodied in a computer residing on a network transaction server system and input output access to the invention may comprise appropriate hardware and software e.g. personal and or mainframe computers provisioned with INTERNET wide area network communications hardware and software e.g. Channel Quality Indicator CQI based File Transfer Protocol FTP Netscape NAVIGATOR or Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER HTML Internet browser software and or direct real time or near real time TCP IP interfaces accessing real time TCP IP sockets for permitting human users to send and receive data or to allow unattended execution of various operations of the invention in real time and or batch type transactions. Likewise the system of the present invention may be a remote Internet based server accessible through conventional communications channels e.g. conventional telecommunications broadband communications wireless communications using conventional browser software e.g. NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR or Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER . Thus the present invention may be appropriately adapted to include such communication functionality and Internet browsing ability. Additionally those skilled in the art will recognize that the various components of the server system of the present invention may be remote from one another and may further comprise appropriate communications hardware software and or LAN WAN hardware and or software to accomplish the functionality herein described.

Each of the functional components of the present invention may be embodied as one or more distributed computer program processes running on one or more conventional general purpose computers networked together by conventional networking hardware and software. Each of these functional components may be embodied by running distributed computer program processes e.g. generated using full scale relational database engines such as IBM DB2 Microsoft SQL SERVER Sybase SQL Server ORACLE 7.3 or ORACLE 8.0 database managers and or a JDBC interface to link to such databases on networked computer systems e.g. comprising mainframe and or symmetrically or massively parallel computing systems such as the IBM SB2 or Hewlett Packard HP 9000 computer systems including appropriate mass storage networking and other hardware and software for permitting these functional components to achieve the stated function. These computer systems may be geographically distributed and connected together via appropriate wide and local area network hardware and software. In one embodiment program data may be made accessible to the user via standard SQL queries for analysis and reporting purposes.

Primary elements of the invention may be server based and may reside on hardware supporting an operating system such as Microsoft WINDOWS NT 2000 or UNIX .

Clients may include mobile and non mobile devices. Mobile devices that may be employed in the present invention include personal digital assistant PDA style computers e.g. as manufactured by Palm Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. and other computers running the PALM operating system Microsoft WINDOWS CE handheld computers or other handheld computers possibly including a wireless modem as well as wireless or cellular telephones including GSM phones J2ME and WAP enabled phones Internet enabled phones and data capable smart phones e.g. the iMODET phone available from NTT Docomo of Tokyo Japan one and two way paging and messaging devices laptop computers etc. Other telephonic network technologies that may be used as potential service channels in a system consistent with the invention include 2.5G cellular network technologies such as GPRS and EDGE as well as 3G technologies such as CDMA1.times.RTT and WCDMA2000. Although mobile devices are preferred traditionally non mobile communications devices are also contemplated by the invention including personal computers INTERNET appliances set top boxes landline telephones etc. Clients may also comprise a personal computer that supports Apple MACINTOSH Microsoft WINDOWS variants a UNIX workstation platform or other computer capable of TCP IP or other network based interaction. In one embodiment no software other than a web browser may be required on the client platform.

Alternatively the aforesaid functional components may be embodied by a plurality of separate computer processes e.g. generated via Microsoft ACCESS or other flat file type database management systems or products running on IBM IBM type Intel PENTIUM or RISC microprocessor based personal computers networked together via conventional networking hardware and software and including such other additional conventional hardware and software as may be necessary to permit these functional components to achieve the stated functionalities. In this alternative configuration since such personal computers typically may be unable to run full scale relational database engines of the types presented above a non relational flat file table not shown may be included in at least one of the networked personal computers to represent at least portions of data stored by a system according to the present invention. These personal computers may run the UNIX or Microsoft WINDOWS variants operating systems. The aforesaid functional components of a system according to the present invention may also comprise a combination of the above two configurations e.g. by computer program processes running on a combination of personal computers RISC systems mainframes symmetric or parallel computer systems and or other appropriate hardware and software networked together via appropriate wide and local area network hardware and software .

A system according to the present invention may also be part of a larger computerized financial transaction system comprising multi database or multi computer systems or warehouses wherein other data types processing systems e.g. transaction financial administrative statistical data extracting and auditing data transmission reception and or accounting support and service systems and or storage methodologies may be used in conjunction with those of the present invention to achieve an overall information management processing storage search statistical and retrieval solution for a particular lock box service provider e payment warehouser biller organization financial institution payment system commercial bank and or for a cooperative or network of such systems.

In one embodiment source code may be written in an object oriented programming language using relational databases. Such an embodiment may include the use of programming languages such as C and toolsets such as Microsoft .NET framework. Other programming languages that may be used in constructing a system according to the present invention include JAVA HTML PERL UNIX shell scripting assembly language Fortran Pascal and Basic. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

A system consistent with the present invention may interact with established payment networks e.g. the Automated Clearing House ACH to provide payment options such as ACH debits credit or procurement card payments and or paper checks. Paper checks may be generated internally or by an external software module wherein an output file in a format capable of being read by the external module may be generated. Payment by a payer system user using a credit or procurement card may also be effected to be processed by Internet or other means. In this scenario additional security levels may be included e.g. for initiating credit card payments along with a dollar amount limit and approving credit card payments and such appropriate credit card payment processing functionality as may be appropriate may be included as well.

It should also be appreciated from the outset that one or more of the functional components may alternatively be constructed out of custom dedicated electronic hardware and or software without departing from the present invention. Thus the present invention is intended to cover all such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and broad scope of the invention.

