---

title: Self-management of virtual machines in cloud-based networks
abstract: A cloud management system can insert a self-management module in virtual machines. The self-management module can be configured to automatically perform management functions on the virtual machine in which it is inserted. The management functions can include activation, suspension, or termination of the virtual machine. The management functions can also include tracking and monitoring the virtual machine. The management functions can also include providing messages to the cloud management system regarding the status and usage of the virtual machine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935692&OS=08935692&RS=08935692
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08935692
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080522
---
This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Once the virtual machines begin running in the cloud the user or the cloud itself must manage the virtual machines. The management may include the instantiation cloning termination and re instantiation of the virtual machines. Due to the potentially large number of virtual machines running in a cloud the virtual machines may become lost and continue to run in the cloud beyond their intended lifespan. As such the lost virtual machines continue to consume resources from the cloud and cost the user excess fees for the consumption of resources or cause other unintended effects. Thus there is a need in the art for methods and systems that provides for automatic management of virtual machines in a cloud computing environment.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and service portals and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for automatic self management of cloud based virtual machines. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud management system can insert a self management module in virtual machines and the self management module can perform management functions to control a particular virtual machine.

According to embodiments in general a user can request instantiation of a virtual machine in a cloud computing environment. The user can request the instantiation of virtual machines from a cloud computing environment which can include a set of resource servers configured to deliver processor cycles operating systems or components thereof applications input output bandwidth or other computing resources. The cloud management system identifies the resources necessary to build and launch virtual machines to the user s specification and requests those resources from the set of resource servers.

According to embodiments at the users request or independently the cloud management system can be configured to insert a self management module in the virtual machine. The self management module can be inserted into the virtual machine during building prior to instantiation or can be inserted into the virtual machine after instantion. The self management module can be configured to automatically perform management functions on the virtual machine in which it is inserted.

The management functions can include activation suspension or termination of the virtual machine. The management functions can also include tracking and monitoring the virtual machine. The management functions can also include providing messages to the cloud management system regarding the status and usage of the virtual machine. For example the self management module can message the cloud management system regarding the operating status activated suspended or terminated errors in the virtual machine the usage of the virtual machine instantiation duration resources consumed .

By including a self management module in the virtual machines the virtual machines can perform management function without input from the user or cloud management system. As such the likelihood of virtual machines being lost can be reduced thereby maximizing cloud resources and reducing cost to users.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

The cloud management system can be configured to communicate with the user via an interface to allow the user to subscribe to cloud and request instantiation of virtual machine . The interface can be any type of interface to allow the user to communicate information to the cloud management system . For example the interface can be a specific graphical command line or other interface generated by a program or application designed to communicate with the cloud management system . Likewise the interface can be an interface generated in conventional formats such as .html capable of being executed in network programs and applications such as a web browser.

During the subscription the cloud management system can collect information from the user in order to track the user s subscription to the cloud . The cloud management system can collect information such as identity payment and billing information and desired cloud usage. The cloud management system can maintain the subscription information in cloud management store .

Additionally the user can request the instantiation of virtual machines in cloud . The cloud management system can be configured to receive the request via interface . To instantiate the virtual machines the cloud management system can for example set the operating system application processing level bandwidth and other parameters specifying the resources and capability of the virtual machines .

As part of the process of building the virtual machines the cloud management system can instantiate the virtual machines and embed a management ID into each virtual machine . The management ID can be for instance a file certificate cookie or other identification object encoding a unique identifier for that virtual machine. The incorporation of management ID into the virtual machines can permit cloud management system to directly configure manage store and track the virtual machines .

In embodiments as part of the process of building the virtual machines the cloud management system can be configured to insert a self management module into each virtual machine . The self management module can be configured to perform various management functions of a particular virtual machine into which it is inserted. The management functions can include activation suspension or termination of the particular virtual machine monitoring of the status and usage of the particular virtual machine and messaging regarding the status and usage of the particular virtual machine . The self management module can be inserted at the request of the user or independently by the cloud management system . The self management module can be inserted into the virtual machine during building prior to instantiation of the virtual machine or can be inserted after instantiation of the virtual machine .

The self management module can include a set of utilities and tools to automatically perform the management functions of an individual virtual machine . The self management module can be implemented in any known scripting or programming language such as PERL shell scripting JAVA and the like.

In embodiments the self management module can be configured to activate the associated virtual machine . The self management module can be configured to activate the virtual machine upon instantiation of the virtual machine . Likewise the self management module can be configured to activate the virtual machine upon the occurrence of a particular event or to re activate the virtual machine after it has been suspended or terminated. For example the self management module can activate the virtual machine at a particular time period.

In embodiments the self management module can be configured to monitor and track the particular virtual machine with which it is associated. The self management module can monitor and track the status of the virtual machine . For example the self management module can monitor the virtual machine for errors. In response to an error the self management module can repair the virtual machine or suspend or terminate the virtual machine .

Additionally in embodiments the self management module can track or meter the consumption of cloud resources by the particular virtual machine and can track the utilization of the particular virtual machine by the user or other third parties. For example the management engine can track such data as the duration the particular virtual machine is instantiated in the cloud the time period that the particular virtual machine is instantiated peak or off peak times and the computing resources consumed by the particular virtual machine number of resource servers computing cycles bandwidth memory usage storage usage . The self management module can track and meter the consumption by querying the cloud or cloud management system regarding the usage of the particular virtual machine .

In embodiments the self management module can be configured to suspend or terminate the particular virtual machine with which it is associated. The self management module can be configured to suspend or terminate the virtual machine upon the occurrence of a particular event or based on the monitoring of the virtual machine such as a error in the virtual machine or the end of the lifespan of the virtual machine . The self management module can terminate the particular virtual machine by ceasing the process of the virtual machine and by ceasing consumptions of resources from the cloud . Likewise if the virtual machine exists in storage or memory in the cloud the self management module can instruct the cloud or the cloud management system to erase or purge the virtual machine upon termination of the virtual machine .

For example the self management module can be configured to suspend or to terminate a virtual machine based on one or more of the following situations 

1. The self management module module can track the duration hours days months years a particular virtual machine has been active. The self management module can terminate the virtual machine upon reaching a specific or predetermined duration. 2. The self management module can monitor and track the resources of cloud e.g. computer cycles memory bandwidth utilized or consumed by the particular virtual machine . The self management module can suspend or terminate the virtual machine upon reaching a specific or predetermined amount of resources consumed. Additionally the self management module can suspend or terminate the virtual machine if there is inactivity in resources utilized or consumed by virtual machine . Also the self management module can suspend or terminate the virtual machine if there is over utilization of resources utilized or consumed by the virtual machine beyond an expected or predetermined amount e.g. consuming more bandwidth than expected . 3. In the above 1. and 2. the self management module can also monitor a monetary rate charged for duration e.g. rate per hour of activity and or a monetary rate charged for resource consumption e.g. rate per computer cycle utilized . The self management module can terminate the virtual machine upon reaching a specific or predetermined charge for the particular virtual machine activity. Other parameters in addition to those in 1 2 and 3 can be tracked.

In embodiments the self management module can be configured to update and inform the cloud management system and or user on the status and activity of the particular virtual machine . The self management module can send messages informing the cloud management system or user of the status active suspended or terminated the monitored or tracked usage and errors. The self management module can send the messages via network in any well known communications protocol such as TCP IP UDP and the like.

In the cloud management system can instantiate virtual machines as requested by the user. Once instantiated in the self management module can begin performing the management process of the virtual machine. The management functions can include activation suspension or termination of the virtual machine monitoring of the status and usage of the virtual machine and messaging regarding the status and usage of the virtual machine . In the self management module can continue the management functions until the virtual machine is terminated.

Then in if the user terminates access to the cloud the process can end but the process can return to any point and repeat.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

