---

title: Modular missile launching assembly
abstract: The invention is related to a modular missile launching assembly, more particularly, a compact modular missile launching assembly that is easily attachable to smaller sized watercrafts, allowing for quick installation. The missile launching assembly is encased in a substantially rectangular container with a launching lid to which one or more missiles are attached. A hydraulic lifting device within the substantially rectangular container is used to lift the launching lid from a closed or stowage position to an open or operational position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07854189&OS=07854189&RS=07854189
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07854189
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080613
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 999 232 filed Oct. 16 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a modular missile launching assembly more particularly a compact modular missile launching assembly that is easily installable to vehicles such as watercrafts.

Modern warships rely on missiles for armament. Typically warships have missile launching systems permanently affixed to the hull of the ship. Missile launching assemblies tend to be bulky and are typically mounted to large warships. Additionally because the missile launching assemblies tend to be bulky it is almost impossible to mount missile assemblies onto smaller crafts without occupying a considerable amount valuable cargo space.

Consequently it is desired to have a missile assembly that is compact enough to be attached to smaller watercrafts. It is also desired to have a missile assembly that is easily attachable and detachable to smaller watercrafts. It is further desired that the missile assembly is compact enough to be fitted to smaller watercrafts without having the adverse affect of reducing payload capabilities.

In one aspect the invention is a modular missile launching assembly for replaceably mounting to an upper deck surface of a small watercraft. In this aspect the missile launching assembly includes a substantially rectangular container. The substantially rectangular container has a base plate forming the bottom of the substantially rectangular container and a top plate forming the top of the substantially rectangular container. The container also includes a first side structure connected to the top plate and the base plate the first side structure being positioned for alignment with a forward end of the watercraft. The container also includes a second side structure connected to the top plate and the base plate the second side structure being positioned for alignment with an aft end of the watercraft. The substantially rectangular container also has a third side structure connected to the top plate and the base plate the third side structure being positioned for alignment with the starboard side of the watercraft. A fourth side structure connected to the top plate and the base plate is also included the fourth side structure being positioned for alignment with a port side of the watercraft. In this aspect the top plate includes a substantially rectangular outer lip for supporting the modular missile launching assembly on the upper deck of the watercraft. The top plate also includes a launching lid substantially encompassed by the substantially rectangular outer lip. The launching lid is pivotally attached to the outer lip of the top plate and pivotable between a closed position and open positions. The launching lid has an underside which is inside the substantially rectangular container when the launching lid is in a closed position. The invention also includes one or more missile canisters attached to the underside of the launching lid each of the one or more missile canisters equipped to carry a missile. Additionally each missile canister has an attached exhaust each exhaust connected to the underside of the launching lid.

In another aspect the invention is a watercraft and modular missile launching arrangement. The arrangement includes a watercraft having a hull having one or more decks. The one or more decks includes an upper deck having an upper deck surface including a forward end surface an aft end surface a port side surface and a starboard side surface. The upper deck further includes a substantially rectangular upper deck opening the substantially rectangular upper deck opening surrounded by the upper deck surface. In this aspect the invention also includes a modular missile launching assembly positioned substantially within the upper deck opening. The modular missile launching assembly has a substantially rectangular container that includes a base plate forming the bottom of the substantially rectangular container. The substantially rectangular container also includes a top plate forming the top of the substantially rectangular container a first side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate the first side plate aligned with the forward end surface of the upper deck. The rectangular container of the modular missile launching assembly also includes a second side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate with the second side plate aligned with the aft end surface of the upper deck. The rectangular container further includes a third side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate the third side plate aligned with the starboard side surface of the upper deck and a fourth side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate the fourth side plate aligned with the port side surface of the upper deck. In this aspect the top plate includes a substantially rectangular outer lip attached to the upper deck surface surrounding the substantially rectangular upper deck opening for supporting the modular missile launching assembly on the upper deck of the watercraft. Also included is a launching lid substantially encompassed by the substantially rectangular outer lip. The launching lid being pivotally attached to the outer lip of the top plate and pivotable between a closed position and open positions. The launching lid has an underside which is inside the substantially rectangular container when the pivotable top plate is in a closed position. The invention also includes one or more missile canisters attached to the underside of the launching lid each of the one or more missile canisters equipped to carry a missile. Each missile canister has an attached exhaust the exhaust attached to the underside of the launching lid.

In another aspect the invention is a method of replaceably arming a watercraft. The method includes the providing of a watercraft. According to the method the watercraft is provided with a hull having one or more decks the one or more decks including an upper deck having an upper deck surface. The upper deck surface includes a forward end surface an aft end surface a port side surface and a starboard side surface. The upper deck further includes a substantially rectangular upper deck opening the substantially rectangular upper deck opening surrounded by the upper deck surface. The method further includes the providing of a modular missile launching assembly. The modular missile launching assembly includes a substantially rectangular container the container having a base plate forming the bottom of the substantially rectangular container and a top plate forming the top of the substantially rectangular container. The substantially rectangular container is further provided with a first side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate a second side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate a third side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate and a fourth side plate connected to the top plate and the base plate. In this aspect the top plate has a substantially rectangular outer lip and a launching lid substantially encompassed by the substantially rectangular outer lip. The launching lid is pivotally attached to the outer lip of the top plate and pivotable between a closed position and open positions. The launching lid has an underside which is inside the substantially rectangular container when the pivotable top plate is in a closed position. Also provided is one or more missile canisters attached to the underside of the launching lid each of the one or more missile canisters equipped to carry a missile. Each missile canister has an attached exhaust with the exhaust attached to the underside of the launching lid. In this aspect the method includes the inserting of the modular missile launching assembly into the substantially rectangular opening in the upper deck so that the substantially rectangular outer lip of the modular missile launching assembly contacts and rests on the upper deck surface surrounding the opening. The method also includes the attaching of the outer lip of the modular missile launching assembly to the upper deck surface by using clamps bolts screws electromechanical devices and combinations thereof.

The opening in the upper deck may be oriented in any desired manner to allow for the insertion of the modular missile launching assembly in any desired orientation. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the modular missile launching assembly is mounted so that the first outer lip portion is aligned with the forward end surface the second outer lip portion is aligned with the aft end surface the third outer lip portion is aligned with the starboard side surface and the fourth outer lip portion is aligned with the port side surface .

Step is the inserting of the modular missile launching assembly into the substantially rectangular opening in the upper deck. According to this step the substantially rectangular outer lip of the modular missile launching assembly contacts and rests on the upper deck surface surrounding the opening . Step is the attaching of the outer lip of the modular missile launching assembly to the upper deck surface by using clamps bolts screws electromechanical devices and combinations thereof. As outlined above the outer lip may include receiving holes therein for receiving fastening elements such as bolts screws and the like.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example the modular missile launching assembly may be mounted on a land based vehicle or may be used in stationary applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

