---

title: Diary synchronization for smart phone applications
abstract: A mobile communication device configured to communicate over a wireless network is further configured to generate detectable events in response to activities of a user of the mobile communications device. Underlying user activities are identified from the detected events. Personalized electronic diary entries are generated from the identified activities as indications of a user activity related to the detected event. The personalized electronic diary entries can be stored in a user retrievable collection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805348&OS=08805348&RS=08805348
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08805348
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080730
---
The devices and processes described herein relate generally to the field of electronic diaries and more particularly to automatic generation of electronic diary entries responsive to user activity.

Individuals often strive to keep track of what they did or what they plan to do. To this end some individuals maintain a calendar or a diary. By handling such information with care such a schedule or diary can provide an individual with several benefits such as tracking their activities throughout any given day. Having captured such activity the individual can make determinations such as spending habits exercise performance maintaining a dietary record of foods eaten and annual percentage of travel. Currently digital schedulers such as OUTLOOK Calendar allow an individual to keep track of occasions initiated by human input. Namely if an individual wants to track what he or she did on any given day the user has to initiate input of information descriptive of the activity in some manner in order to maintain a diary. Such information typically includes a date time duration and description of the activity.

Many individuals find such schedule diary applications quite useful for keeping track of future planned events and for later review of previously planned events as a record of one s activity. Unfortunately such applications rely on direct user initiated input. Thus current schedulers can maintain a record of only those meetings and other occasions specifically entered or otherwise described by the user but nothing else. If a user wants to record book or plan something the user has to do it manually. Thus the resulting record maintained by any schedule diary is as good as the input initiated by the user.

People often forget what they did yesterday. Should a user initiating diary entries overlook an activity it will not be captured in the scheduler diary. Thus from later review it would be as if the activity never happened. For individuals that maintain busy schedules it is quite likely they may not have time to initiate input for all of their activities performed in any given day. Thus later review of a diary input for that day would have holes of unaccounted time.

Devices and processes are described herein for automatically generating a daily record of activities such as a journal or diary for tracking at least one of business and private activities associated with a wireless electronic portable device user. Some embodiments described herein may provide a process for generating a personalized electronic diary entry for a user of a wireless portable electronic device. Such a process includes detection of at least one event related to an activity of the device user. The related activity of the user is identified at least in part from the detected event. A personalized electronic diary entry can be generated indicative of the related activity of the user.

In some embodiments a mobile communications device configured for maintaining a diary includes at least one activity sensor. The activity sensor is configured to generate an event in response to a respective activity of the user of the mobile communications device. The device also includes an event detector in communication with the at least one activity sensor. The event detector is configured to detect generated events. An activity identifier is provided in communication with the event detector for identifying a related user activity in response to detecting a generated event. A diary record generator in communication with the activity identifier is also provided. The diary record generator is configured to generate a personalized electronic diary entry indicative of the related user activity.

Referring first to a user performs an activity that generates an event on a wireless electronic portable device . The generated event is indicative of the activity associated with the user of the device . A diary engine monitors or otherwise detects the event generated by the device . The diary engine also identifies relevant activity of the user of the device related to the detected event. The diary engine then generates a diary entry indicative of the identified activity stored in a user retrievable diary without requiring initiation by human input that in any way directly relates to the activity. The user retrievable diary provides a valuable tool to the user. In some embodiments the user retrievable diary is editable by the user to add information remove information or otherwise modify diary entries whether generated automatically or otherwise.

Referring next to a mobile computing device is shown. Device is a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant functionality. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer etc. . Personal digital assistant functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording etc. and is configured to synchronize personal information from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

Device comprises a housing having a front side and a back side . An earpiece speaker a loudspeaker and a user input device e.g. a plurality of keys are coupled to housing . Housing is configured to hold a screen in a fixed relationship above a user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment. Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. In alternative embodiments display user input device earpiece and loudspeaker may each be positioned anywhere on front side back side or the edges therebetween.

In various embodiments device has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters. In some of these embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 1000 cubic centimeters and or up to about 600 cubic centimeters.

While described with regards to a handheld device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality through wireless access points WAPs in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. A wireless access point may comprise any one or more components of a wireless site used by device to create a wireless network system that connects to a wired infrastructure such as a wireless transceiver cell tower base station router cables servers or other components depending on the system architecture. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system e.g. a cellular network and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants a wireless personal area network PAN system such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit which may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise one processor more than two processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc. Alternatively processing circuit may comprise any digital and or analog circuit elements comprising discrete and or solid state components suitable for use with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application e.g. contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application web site favorites or bookmarks notes application etc. word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an memory port or expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example. Processing circuit may use memory port to read and or write to a removable memory card having memory for example to determine whether a memory card is present in port to determine an amount of available memory on the memory card to store subscribed content or other data or files on the memory card etc.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a alphanumeric numeric or QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

Device may comprise a transceiver coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example transceiver may comprise a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously.

The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory etc. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . Further host processor and radio processor may share a single memory.

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more position determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example the transceiver and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate position requests e.g. requests for position fixes and position responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio processor may be configured to invoke a position fix by configuring a position engine and requesting a position fix. For example a position engine interface on radio processor may set configuration parameters that control the position determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation location determination mode e.g. standalone MS assisted MS based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request position assist data without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload PDE address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC etc. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

With reference now to mobile computing device may be used to access subscribed content on a remote server via a wireless network . Subscribed content is data published by a content provider to which a user has subscribed or may subscribe in order to receive updated content. Subscribed content includes web casts e.g. podcasts such as video audio and still photo data data provided in a web feed format such as RSS Really Simple Syndication RDF Resource Description Framework OPML Outline Processor Markup Language the Atom Syndication Format or other markup language formats such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensive markup language XML . Subscribed content may include news feeds blogs school information podcasts cached web pages etc. and may include enclosures in an enclosed file format or other code pointing to media files e.g. audio video photo etc. . Subscribed content or updated subscribed content may be referred to as episodes publications volumes numbers editions etc. Subscribed content may be described as being pulled from a content source using an aggregator or other mechanism as described below as opposed to being pushed as with e mail and instant messaging though in alternative embodiments subscribed content too may be pushed for example to an internet aggregator. Subscribed content does not include conventional e mails in this embodiment though in alternative embodiments the teachings herein may be applied to e mails and other content which is not subscribed content. Subscribed content may be updated periodically or from time to time by the associated content provider or a third party. Subscribing to a web feed or other source of subscribed content may be accomplished by a user registering or subscribing with a content provider for example via the content providers web site which may in one embodiment comprise dragging a link from a web browser to an aggregator or clicking an icon e.g. an RSS icon etc.

An aggregator or feed reader news reader etc. is an application or other module which collects web feeds or other subscribed content to make the subscribed content more easily accessible to a user. One exemplary aggregator is Bloglines a division of Ask.com produced by IAC Search Media Oakland Calif. Aggregator may be operable on one or both of mobile device and server . Aggregator may be configured to query all servers in a user s preselected list of web feeds or subscribed content sources e.g. feed list to check for new subscribed content. The checking may occur periodically e.g. every 30 minutes once a day etc. or from time to time and preferably occurs on a predetermined period or time schedule. If new content exists aggregator may make a note of the new content for example by setting a flag or downloading a new web feed summary or link or aggregator may download or synchronize with part or all of the subscribed content or a summary of the subscribed content.

Mobile computing device is configured to access subscribed content via a wireless WAN wireless LAN and or other wired or wireless networks. Subscribed content may be accessed by streaming content from server to device which is the presentation of the content to the user while the data is downloading typically with a portion of the content stored or cached on device . Subscribed content may alternatively be accessed by downloading content from server to device which is the reception and storage of the subscribed content on device . In either case of streaming or downloading resources of device such as one or more of battery power memory space processing bandwidth and wireless network bandwidth are used.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating a system and method of generating diary entries for a user of the wireless portable electronic device is shown. In the exemplary embodiment an event generated by the wireless portable electronic device is monitored or otherwise detected at step . Such monitoring or detection may occur through observing output from one or more of several event generating device subsystems or applications. At least some of the detected events are indicative of an activity of the device user. For example at least one event may be generated in response to an activity of a user of the wireless portable electronic device.

Detected events are interpreted to identify at step a user activity when appropriate that is related to the detected event. Table 1 identifies several exemplary detectable events and their respective user activities. In some embodiments a determination is made at step as to whether to update the user diary based on the monitored user activity. Not all user activity may result in generation of a new input into the user diary. For example in a device equipped with a GPS receiver and application to measure a user s position not every new GPS location event would necessarily generate a diary input. Nor would every email communication or web browsing activity necessarily result in generation of a diary input. If it is determined that the diary should be updated timing information of the related user activity may be obtained at step otherwise the process returns to step for continued monitoring or detecting of additional events. Association of the identified activity with some form of time and date information is provided for arranging diary records in a meaningful way.

After acquiring timing information a diary entry is formulated at step . Formulation of the diary entry generally includes selecting or otherwise generating a descriptor for the identified activity. Such a descriptor may be a textual description or abbreviated description of the underlying activity. In some embodiments the descriptor can be obtained at least in part from the detected event itself. For example a descriptor for a detected incoming telephone call from Mr. Jones may include Received Call from Mr. Jones. The Received Call portion of the descriptor could be derived from an event such as a call answered signal prompted by the incoming call itself. The calling party Mr. Jones may be identified from supplemental information such as caller ID associated with the call or from the user s phone book or contacts list.

Timing information such as one or more of a time that the call was initiated or answered a time the call was concluded and a duration of the call can be obtained from a timing source allowing a diary entry to be displayed in a time relevant manner. The diary can then be updated at step to reflect the formulated entry identifying the user activity and its association with time values such as a start time a stop time or duration. The diary entry may include a description an associated time and in some instances some other indicia such as graphics to provide the user with a user comprehendible representation of the diary entry.

In at least some embodiments additional processing is accomplished to infer or conclude a user activity based upon the detected event. Such additional processing may be necessary when identification of the user activity is not readily apparent from a detected event. For example a motion sensor may produce a detectable event such as an electrical signal or a digital word in response to user motion. In some embodiments the motion detector output is binary indicating whether the device and thus the user is mobile or stationary. Alternatively or in addition the motion sensor output is variable responsive to a feature of the motion such as its frequency or intensity. The variability may be captured in value or variation of an electrical signal or digital word.

In some embodiments an inference or conclusion of the user s activity such as jogging may be obtained by a motion sensor output event signal indicating motion of the device and thus the user occurring above a certain amplitude or having some other attribute such as a periodicity indicative of jogging. In some embodiments such as a binary motion detector a user activity of walking and jogging may each produce the same detectable event. Thus there is no particular feature of the motion detector suggestive of whether the motion relates to jogging. Such an inference or conclusion as to the user s motion can be based on one or more other event sources such as a position sensor. For example a speed can be calculated based on changes in the device s and thus the user s position over some sample time interval. A user velocity can thus be determined which can be suggestive of whether the underlying activity is jogging sprinting or walking. If the velocity is too fast a different conclusion may be determined such that the user is traveling by car or bicycle.

Referring now to a block diagram of an exemplary wireless portable electronic device is shown including an applications processor and a mobile communications processor . The mobile communications processor provides communication support functionality that may be similar in at least some regards to the radio processor and transceiver shown and described in relation to . The applications processor provides processing support for one or more applications usable by the device . Preferably at least some of the one or more applications provide detectable events indicative of an activity of a user of the device .

In more detail the application processor is in communication with one or more system elements or subsystems that each alone or in combination initiates at least one detectable event that may be indicative of an activity of a user of the device . For example the application processor is in communication with on or more networking communication processors that may be implementing wireless networking protocols such as Bluetooth and WiFi . An exemplary detectable event initiated by such networking communication processors would include messages sent or received by the user. Examples of other such system elements that initiate detectable events relating to an activity of a user of the device include position determining devices such as a GPS receiver or other system elements configured to implement any of the position determination techniques such as those described above in relation to . In such instances an event would include determination by such a GPS receiver of a current position or change of position of the device suggesting a position or change of position of the user of the device .

Still other system elements adapted to generate detectable events in response to user activity include multimedia devices such as one or more digital still cameras and digital video cameras. Detectable events would include media recorded or played back from such devices . Still further system elements that initiate an event related to an activity of a user of the device include one or more device sensors configured to sense some physical attribute associated with the wireless portable electronic device . In the exemplary embodiment such physical sensors include a power monitor configured for sensing status of the system power and providing an indication i.e. initiating an event reflecting a change in power status. Such indications of changes in power status may include power on power off and charging.

Yet another class of physical sensors includes motion sensors . Exemplary motion sensor may include one or more of an accelerometer a magnetometer a gyroscope a position sensitive switch such as a mercury switch. When the device is in motion as may result from user motion while holding the device some aspect of the motion is detectable by the motion sensor which is configured to provide an output i.e. initiating an event indicative of the motion detected. The wireless portable electronic device also typically includes other standard system elements such as system memory a user interface a user display and a timer .

In some instances a single user activity may result in the initiation of events among one or more system elements of the device . The device can be configured to identify and classify detection of events in order to identify the corresponding activity of the user. For example if a user accesses the Internet through a WiFi hotspot messages i.e. events observable through the WiFi application interface first identify that a user is engaging in a WiFi session. From the content of the messages or some other attribute of a related communications protocol such as a wireless access port address the particular WiFi hotspot being accessed can be identified and serve as an indication of a location of the user i.e. a user must be within the local region of an identified WiFi hotspot .

In addition to a user s location it may be possible to infer other aspects of the user s activity. For example if a user accesses a WiFi hotspot at a particular coffee shop it is possible to infer from the identified WiFi hotspot that the user is taking a coffee break while accessing the Web. Depending upon the duration of the WiFi session and the nature of activity over the WiFi network e.g. obtainable by monitoring or otherwise tracking web sites visited by the user during the particular WiFi session it may be possible to distinguish whether the user is working or perhaps engaging in online shopping. In some instances a position can also be determined through the GPS receiver . When combined with activity on a WiFi hotspot such supplemental position information can be used to more precisely locate the user during the course of the observable activity.

Referring next to a functional block diagram illustrates various processes available to an exemplary wireless portable electronic device such as the device of . The wireless portable electronic device generally includes an executive program such as an operating system and a user interface . The operating system coordinates sharing of system resources among one or more of the various processes. In the exemplary embodiment the operating system is in communication with a power management application a motion sensor controller a position determining application such as a GPS application a telephone application an e mail application a calendar application a web browsing application and multimedia applications such as an MP3 player application and an imaging application such as a camera controller .

Activity associated with a user of the device may result in one or more detectable events being generated among one or more of the various applications. For example turning the wireless portable electronic device on or off produces a change in power status such change being detectable by the power management application e.g. measured through the power management sensor . Thus the power management application may detect and distinguish between a power on and a power off event. Either event is indicative of a user activity of turning the device on or off as the case may be.

Continuing with exemplary detection of events related to user activity a user s location can be detected through a position sensor e.g. GPS receivers or other position determining devices . The position sensor may produce a digital output word indicative of a solution or position fix of the devices and therefore the user s geographic location e.g. x y z values . The digital output word would be detectable i.e. readable by the GPS application . In some embodiments a destination can be inferred from the user s location. This can be accomplished by identifying the user s location on a map. The map may include a street map for identifying street addresses or a business location map for identifying businesses within a vicinity of a particular location. In some embodiments such maps may be stored locally within the device . Alternatively or in addition such maps may be obtained from a remote source such as a web accessible source.

A voice calling application may initiate detectable events in response to calls placed and received by a mobile telephone of the device . One or more features of a call event may identify the occurrence of a call whether the call is incoming or outgoing the remote party s phone number and the call s duration. Supplemental information such as identification of the remote party through caller ID and or a user s contact list or phone book can be used to identify the remote party. Still further refinement of the user activity associated with a particular call can be accomplished through an inference as to whether a call is business related or personal. Such inferences can be achieved through pre classification of certain remote phone numbers and or remote party identification time of day day of week etc. For example a call to the user s office would be classified as business as would a call to pre classified clients or business partners as may be identified by their respective phone number and or identity. Other calls could be classified as personal determined in a similar manner.

An e mail application may initiate detectable events in the form of email messages sent and received by the device as well as email messages generated and read by the user. Such activity of the e mail application may suggest the user is actively engaging in email communications an activity in and of itself . Other features detectable by the email application may process content of the email messages to determine a user event. Such email content may include one or more of the addressees subject line message body and attachments. Address fields can be used to distinguish messages such as messages that are work related from messages that are non work related.

In some embodiments email messages sent to or received from certain addresses can be identified for further processing to glean additional information related to user activity. For example messages related to a particular user activity such as confirmation of a user bid placed on an online auction service such as EBAY confirmation of an online purchase such as messages from AMAZON or messages confirming travel arrangements such as messages from TRAVELOCITY may be inspected for further details. Content from such messages can be inspected for details related to the underlying transaction. Such details may include identification of a purchased item and cost.

The calendar application provides access to the user s stored calendar entries. Such entries would be readable through the calendar application as may be accomplished at various times throughout a given day. Reading of such calendar entries may represent a detectable event. The content of such read entries would be indicative of the user s activity at the scheduled date and time. In some embodiments calendar entries can be retrieved at one time for more than one day e.g. once a week or once a month. Appropriate diary entries would be formulated for the scheduled activity at the proper scheduled date and time. Such multi day reviews of the user s calendar can be repeated and any changes to future items updated according to any update schedule as may be necessary. For example a new calendar entry could prompt generation of a related diary entry for the associated scheduled user activity. With a calendar such detectable events would generally be indicative of planned activity and not necessarily of the user s actual activity.

Still further applications capable of producing detectable events indicative of user activity include web browsing application . Such routine user actions as may occur in the course of web browsing represent the events indicative of a user activity. Thus a user s browsing activity such as uniform resource locators entered by the user the identity of hyperlinks followed by the user and even in some instances web page content viewed by the user can suggest a user activity. For example a user may be conducting research of a particular topic as determined from keywords entered in a search engine such as GOOGLE . Alternatively or in addition events include user transactions carried out at such web sites. For example the web browsing application can detect a user placing a bid on www.ebay.com making a purchase on www.amazon.com booking an airline flight on www.expedia.com etc. Such browsing events e.g. pages visited and transactions conducted thereon would be indicative of the user s activity at the time of the browsing.

Still other events can be detected through multimedia applications such as the MP3 player application and the camera controller . Events detected by these applications include retrieval of content such as playing of MP3 audio. The activity might include listening to music watching a video and or taking a picture. Additional details such as the subject matter viewed during any such viewing session of multimedia can be included in a diary entry such as identification of one or more of a genre a title and an artist.

The wireless portable electronic device also includes a diary engine in communication with the operating system and configured for generating diary entries responsive to events indicative of user activity and recording the diary entries into user readable diary records . In some embodiments the diary engine includes a physical processor. Alternatively or in addition the diary engine is implemented as a process such as a collection of preprogrammed steps on a processor of opportunity such as a central processor. In some embodiments the diary engine is implemented within the wireless electronic portable device. Alternatively or in addition the diary engine is implemented on a remote processor in communication with the wireless electronic portable device such as a server communicating with the device in a client server relationship.

In some embodiments the diary engine is in communication with one or more of the event detecting applications through the operating system . Alternatively or in addition the diary engine is in direct communication with one or more of the event detecting applications. The diary engine receives indications of user activity through events detected by the one or more applications. The diary engine is configured to monitor detected events and to generate diary entries responsive to at least some of the detected events. The diary entries may be generated selectively and are indicative of user activity at corresponding times. The diary entries or records are captured or recorded in a user retrievable form such as user diary file . The diary file may be a text file an image a binary file or in generally any suitable file that is able to record such entries in a user retrievable manner.

In the exemplary embodiment the diary engine includes at least an event detector an activity identifier and a diary record generator . The event detector can be in communication with the operating system . Alternatively or in addition the event detector can be in communication with one or more of the various applications associated with user activity. The activity identifier operates upon detected events received or otherwise identified by the event detector . In some embodiments the activity identifier examines parameters associated with detected event to identify related user activity. Alternatively or in addition the activity identifier receives supplemental information which it uses in combination with parameters associated with the detect event to identify a related user activity.

The activity identifier can be in communication with a supplemental information source . Supplemental information sources can include one or more of web accessible information and locally stored information. Examples of such supplemental information include caller ID and contact list information as discussed herein for use in relation to telephone calls. Other examples of such supplemental information include street maps as may be used in conjunction with a GPS receiver to place a user s location at a particular street or address. Alternatively or in addition the supplemental information may include information obtained from GOOGLE Maps identifying one or more businesses associated with a location obtained from a GPS positional solution event. For example if a user dines at a restaurant a GPS location of the device obtained during such time period can be input into GOOGLE Maps to identify one or more businesses in the immediate vicinity of the user s location. Time of day can also be used as supplemental information to reduce or eliminate ambiguity. For example if a user is determined to be at a location for which there is more than one business but only one dining establishment the activity identifier would identify the activity as eating and not shopping if the time coincides with a common meal time or the user s learned or otherwise identified eating habits.

In some embodiments the device includes a timer . The timer may include a real time clock or other suitable timer configured to track time of day. Alternatively or in addition the device also includes an elapsed timer configured to measure a time period from a reference time. In some embodiments the elapsed timer is in communication with the real time clock . Elapsed timer may be controllable to measure the time period between two identified times of the real time clock .

In some embodiments the diary engine also includes a destination detector . The destination detector can be configured to determine a user destination based on one or more detected events of the device . The destination detector may receive a location from the device s GPS NAV capability. The destination detector can use the determined position to identify a particular location such as a street address and or a business location by consulting supplemental information such as a suitable destination database. One or more of the destination detector the event detector the activity identifier and the record generator can be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

By way of an illustrative example a user carrying the device undertakes a jogging activity. The motion sensor generates an event indicative that the device is in motion. The event detector receives the signal from the motion sensor application i.e. step and forwards it to the activity identifier which in turn determines that an indication that a user activity of jogging is occurring i.e. step . Upon initiation of such jogging motion the record generator may determine that the diary should be updated to reflect a new activity i.e. step . The diary record generator obtains timing information from the real time clock i.e. step and formulating a diary entry by generating an association between the jogging activity and the start time i.e. step . The diary may be updated at that time indicating that jogging activity started i.e. step . Alternatively the diary entry may not made until the user activity has concluded. At that time output from the motion sensor stops or at least no longer indicates jogging. Thus the activity identifier also observes cessation of the jogging activity. The record generator receives output from the activity identifier observing that the jogging activity has terminated. At that time an end time can be obtained from the real time clock in some embodiments an elapsed timer is started upon initiation of the jogging and terminated upon cessation of the activity such that the record generator receives an elapsed time for the activity. Ultimately a diary record indicative of jogging is formulated by the record generator beginning at the corresponding time and lasting for the corresponding interval. The record generator may include a destination of the jogging when so provided by the destination detector such as identifying a job through a park or around the user s neighborhood. The record generator updates the diary to reflect the activity.

An exemplary user readable display of exemplary electronic diary entries for one day is illustrated in . The exemplary diary reflects a portion of a single day. A date is included for example in a header portion of the diary to identify which date of the diary is being viewed. The exemplary diary is configured as a table having a first column of times e.g. hours of the day and an adjacent second column of text entries . The text entries are indicative of a user activity and are adjacent to times of the day during which the identified user activity took place. The text entries provide some indication as to the related activity such as a textual description or abbreviation. At least some of the text entries are presented on a shaded field. In the exemplary embodiment the shaded field extends horizontally to cover the textual input and vertically corresponding to a duration of the corresponding user activity. In the exemplary activity meeting with Rob . . . the vertical extent of the color field extends from about 16 00 to about 18 00 i.e. about 2 hours . In some instances two or more user activities may overlap such as talking on a cell phone while exercising. Such diary entries may be displayed side by side or otherwise overlapping as determined by their respective time values.

The shaded fields when provided can be color coded and or shaded in order to distinguish various different activities from each other at a glance. In the exemplary diary the fields are colored. However since a gray scale representation is included the colors of the associated fields are indicated in parenthesis next to each of the fields. The exemplary colors range from green yellow red and gray. Other colors shades textures or other indicia such as colored text and or borders may also be employed.

In the exemplary embodiment the diary includes a first activity of power on at a time of about 8 00. The diary record was generated automatically in response to the device being powered on in the morning. A second entry occurring from about 5 00 to about 6 00 indicates that the user went jogging. Next the user rented a movie at about 7 00. Included with the record entry is a title of the movie and a star indication obtained from external review of the movie. The diary also includes an entry at about 9 00 documenting an online purchase with AMAZON . Along with a description of the user activity associated with the transaction is an indication of the online store and cost. Other entries are included through out the day until a final entry of about 25 00 i.e. 01 00 AM the following morning .

In some embodiments an analyzer is provided to analyze diary records and provide the user with additional helpful information. Such information may be in the form of summary reports. Such reports may provide a summary of habitual activities such as sleep wake patterns exercise routines. Such reports may also provide a summary of eating habits such as eating times and types of food percentage of annual travel expenditures or entertainment.

In some embodiments a scheduler assistant is provided to update a user s calendar automatically. Such automatic updates may be initiated according to an online purchase such as purchase of concert tickets for a particular show concert or sporting event. The scheduler assistant places an event on user s calendar corresponding to date and time of actual show concert or sporting event.

In some embodiments the scheduler assistant may suggest certain activities in advance of a scheduled event given a current location and time and a scheduled destination and event time. For example the scheduler assistant can propose transportation options such as train schedule calling a cab or even proposing travel route. For online purchases the scheduler assistant may synchronize with email to review confirmation email. Thus the scheduler assistant can automatically enter scheduled delivery date into calendar and even track delivery as supplemental tracking email messages are received. With any of such features the user can be provided with an ability for opting into and out of any such feature as may be desired.

In some embodiments the device includes at least one of a pre processor and post processor. A preprocessor processes diary records prior to recording such record into the diary . In some embodiments the preprocessor is implemented automatically using pre programmed logic. Alternatively or in addition the preprocessor is implemented manually. Preprocessing can be accomplished to identify the records etc.

The embodiments disclosed herein have been described with reference to block diagrams and flow diagrams. Each block may represent one or more computer programs e.g. software firmware etc. and or the hardware or processing circuitry on which the computer programs operate e.g. microprocessors microcontrollers applications specific integrated circuits programmable logic programmable gate array etc. . Each block may be a module and may refer to either computer program and or circuit components operating the computer program to carry out the functions described herein. Blocks may interface with other blocks at a hardware and or computer program level and may operate at and or interface with other modules at any applicable computer program level specified in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model such as application layer presentation layer session layer transport layer network layer data link physical layer etc. Modules may be represented by a block multiple blocks or portions of blocks in the various figures herein. The recitation of a module computer server or other unit in the specification including claims hereof is meant to include the use of multiple units or partial units configured to operate as the unit is described.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the figures and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

