---

title: Trigger mediation system
abstract: A system for processing a call from a subscriber in a telecommunication network includes a service-oriented architecture-based orchestrator configured to communicate with legacy communication platforms and next-generation communication platforms, and to an application layer or intelligent network (IN) portion of the telecommunication network. The orchestrator is configured to receive a multi-part service request corresponding to the call from the subscriber, where the multi-part service request includes multiple individual service requests. A service database is configured to provide an identity and network location of multiple control points (service control points, telco control points), where each control point corresponds to an individual service request. Protocol adapters provide a communication interface with each control point, and with the core network. A network service orchestrator simultaneously communicates with each control point and requests processing instructions corresponding to the individual service request. Processing instructions corresponding to the respective individual service request received from each control point facilitate processing the call and implementing the services requested.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271039&OS=08271039&RS=08271039
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08271039
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080922
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from European Patent Application No. 08 425 533.0 filed on Jul. 31 2008 entitled Trigger Mediation System and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to telecommunication systems and intelligent network IN architecture. In particular this disclosure relates to a trigger mediation system for performing advanced services requested by a subscriber through the use of multiple service control points SCPs regardless of subscriber s access network.

Subscribers or end users connected to the telephone network may request a particular service during a call. A service is a value added feature such as call diversion free 800 number services voice mailbox or other feature. The subscriber may also request a set of services which includes two or more services corresponding to one subscriber call. The phrase multi part service may be used interchangeably with the phrase set of services and means that more than one service is addressed to fulfill the request. Processing a set of services requires sequential operation to fulfill all services. For example in existing wireless communication networks a mobile switching center MSC may separately and independently contact a first service control point SCP to handle the first service request then separately and independently contact the second SCP to handle the second service request. This is a fairly complex procedure and represents an inefficient use of the network bandwidth. Such multiple sequential SCP access introduces significant real time processing delays which may result in customer service completion delays.

Further some services may not be available to the subscriber because the telephone company Telco has not made arrangements with a service supplier to provide such services. In addition a small number of service suppliers traditionally control the marketplace for such value added services. Accordingly the Telco may hire the service provider to bundle multiple services on one SCP so that multiple popular services may be made available to the subscriber. However this is expensive because the suppliers control the market and extract a high price for implementing the services. Bundling services also requires time to implement and deploy the services even though the multiple services may exist independently on different SCPs in the network. Additionally extensive software debugging is required which increases expense and may delay product roll out.

To provide a set of services two options may be available in existing Public Land Mobile Network PLMN Circuit Switched CS networks GSM . As a first option the MSC may separately and independently contact a first SCP to handle the first service request then separately and independently contact a second SCP to handle the second service request.

As a second option the telephone company Telco may hire the service provider to bundle both services on one SCP. In other words the supplier may be hired to create the second service e.g. Originating Identification Restriction Service which currently resides on the second SCP and place the newly created service on the first SCP so that the first SCP contains both services. Thus the first SCP would then contain the bundled features of the 800 number service and the Originating Identification Restriction service. However this is expensive and requires time to implement even though both services may exist independently.

In the above example in a PLMN CS network GSM when the end user requests the 800 number service the MSC receives a trigger which initiates processing. To perform the operation requested by the calling user the MSC contacts the first SCP by establishing a communication link with the first SCP using the appropriate protocol. Once connected the MSC facilitates operation of the 800 number service. After the 800 number service has been provided the MSC disconnects from the first SCP.

To facilitate the second part or Originating Identification Restriction service of the calling user request transparently as viewed by the end user the MSC then contacts the second SCP based on a second trigger or event and establishes a new communication link with the second SCP using the appropriate protocol. Once connected the MSC facilitates operation of the Originating Identification Restriction service. After the Originating Identification Restriction feature has been provided the MSC disconnects from the second SCP and the end user request is complete. Note however that the type of communication link and the appropriate protocol used between the MSC and the first SCP and second SCP may differ.

A trigger mediation system for processing a call from a subscriber in a telecommunication network includes a service oriented architecture based orchestrator configured to interface to legacy and next generation communication platforms and to an application layer or intelligent network IN portion of the telecommunication network. The orchestrator is configured to receive a request of a set of services corresponding to the call from the subscriber where the request of a set of services includes multiple individual service requests e.g. a multi part request or service request . A service database is configured to provide an identity and network location of multiple control points service control points telco control points where each control point is able to meet an individual service request. The trigger mediation system is able to interconnect with different kinds of control points and several types of core networks due to the use of various protocol adapters. A network service orchestrator simultaneously communicates with each control point and requests processing instructions corresponding to the individual service request. The network service orchestrator then receives from each respective control point processing instructions corresponding to the respective individual service request and processes the call according to the processing instructions received.

A method for processing a call from a subscriber in a telecommunication network includes receiving a request for a set of services corresponding to the call from the subscriber identifying multiple individual service requests contained in the request and identifying a core network to which the subscriber is coupled. A service database is inspected to determine an identity and network location of multiple control points service control points telco control points where each control point corresponds to an individual service request. Based upon the type of request from the subscriber a first protocol adapter which handles non messaging type protocols is selected from a plurality of protocol adapters to provide a communication interface with the core network based on the identity of the core network or a second protocol adapter which handles messaging type protocols is selected from the plurality of protocol adapters to provide a communication interface with the core network based on the identity of the core network. Simultaneous communication with each control point is performed to request processing instructions corresponding to the individual service request. Processing instructions are then received from each control point corresponding to the respective individual service request and the call is processed according to the processing instructions received.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The MSC is the central component of the CS PLMN . The MSC handles call set up and termination routes traffic to the desired destination and provides billing detail information. The MSC is an automatic system which may be part of the interface for user traffic between the PLMN and other public switched networks such as a Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN or other MSC in the same or other wireless networks. The MSC registers unknown mobile handsets that are visiting roaming the network and stores the information in a Visitor Location Register VLR . The VLR is co located with each MSC and contains information about the present location of each of the visiting mobile subscribers and the current status of the corresponding mobile handset power on off active idle mode .

The MSC also provides necessary information to a home network in a Home Location Register HLR . The HLR stores primary information about permanently assigned home users and their corresponding mobile handsets. Each mobile handset is assigned to one HLR . The HLR may store information such as the types of services the mobile subscriber uses voice data prepaid the present location of the customer as derived from other foreign mobile switching centers and the international mobile subscriber identification IMSI number assignment which is unique to each handset .

Modern switching networks such as the PLMN and PSTN are based on an Intelligent Network IN architecture where the traffic portion of the network is separated from the signaling portion of the network. Intelligent Network IN architecture is also referred to as WIN Wireless Intelligent Network Architecture in the wireless or mobile environment. The term intelligent network is used interchangeably with the term intelligent network platform or intelligent network architecture. Based on the IN architecture intelligence is separated from network switches and placed in distributed computer nodes to support provision control and management of multiple telephone services.

The trigger mediation system enables the IN architecture to support multiple different services independent of the underlying network technologies and defines a service oriented functional architecture that permits the provision of generic service components that can be combined to construct new telecommunication services. Because of the trigger mediation system the IN architecture functions as a telecommunications network service control architecture that provides a generic platform for open distributed service independent communication. Such an open platform architecture supports the uniform creation control and management of advanced services beyond the basic telephone services. The IN architecture has been implemented using a variety of protocols over the industry standard SS7 telephone signaling network. For the signaling part of the network the SS7 protocol standard is used. National versions of the SS7 protocol have been implemented by various countries. The SS7 protocol is similar to TCP IP protocol and implements much of the OSI Open Systems Interconnection Reference Model seven layer model.

The PLMN with its corresponding MSC may be operatively coupled to the PSTN or other core network and to the trigger mediation system . The trigger mediation system may be in the form of a layer or application coupled between the core communication network and the IN platform in a wireless or a wireline communication environment.

The MSC is coupled to the trigger mediation system which may be in turn coupled to one or more Service Control Points SCP . The SCP is part of the IN architecture and is a real time transaction processing system having one or more databases and which provides service control and service data functions. The MSC issues a message or query to the trigger mediation system the trigger mediation analyzes the query and it contacts the SCP. The SCP is able to meet the request and performs subscriber or application specific service logic in response to the query. The SCP then sends back instructions to the trigger mediation system to perform the specified functions.

The MSC may detect events during call processing which indicate an IN call event. After the MSC detects the event it suspends call processing and begins a single transaction with the trigger mediation system . The trigger mediation system then begins a series of transactions with the SCP to determine special requirements or processes associated with the handling of the call which is referred to as a trigger. For example the SCP may provide special non standard features or services such as number translation free 800 numbers conference calling call forwarding caller ID blocking 67 last number redial 69 voice mailbox and other value added services.

The trigger mediation system communicates with multiple SCPs such as a first SCP and a second SCP in the legacy IN platform and also communicates with multiple Telco Service Points TSPs such as TSPs and . The TSPs may be similar to the SCPs in basic function but may provide advanced services.

In the legacy IN platform includes the first SCP and the second SCP . The first SCP may include combinations of various services such as service a service b and service c. The services may be grouped into different service bundles. For example a service bundle A may include service a service b and service c while service bundle B may only include service b and service c. The second SCP may include service d and service e in unbundled form. The IN legacy platform may include any number of SCPs.

Similarly the next generation IN platform includes the first TSP the second TSP and the third TSP . The next generation IN platform may include any number of TSPs. The three TSPs may provide various services such as service f service g service h service i service l and service m .

The services labeled as f through m may be offered as stand alone services or as groups of bundled services. A bundled service is a service that may employ the simultaneous or sequential operation of two separate services. Services f through m are examples of unbundled services. For example the subscriber or end user may wish to use the features of a first service for example a free 800 number service in conjunction with a second service for example a Originating Identification Restriction Service to hide a number from the called user. Thus the subscriber s request is a two part request that includes multiple individual service requests. The procedure implemented to process the subscriber s request is preferably transparent to the end user. In this example the first TSP or first SCP may provide the 800 number service while the second TSP or second SCP may provide the Originating Identification Restriction Service.

The trigger mediation system provides the orchestration to handle the multiple requests thus increasing the efficiency of the MSC . Accordingly separate and independent communication sessions with the corresponding SCP or TSP is eliminated. The advantages of the trigger mediation system are further highlighted as an end user request requires the combination of additional SCP provided features. The trigger mediation system reduces system processing delays by eliminating multiple SCP or TSP requests which may increase overall customer satisfaction with the services provided.

The trigger mediation system includes a universal interface provision having multiple adapters or plug ins and is able to communicate with any selected core networks such as the PSTN PLMN CS PLMN PS PLMN NGN IMS and OLOs through the MSC . When communicating with the core networks the trigger mediation system handles a variety of non message based protocols including INAP Intelligent Network Application Protocol ETSI core INAP CSI according to ETS CAP Camel Application Part Customized Applications for Mobile Network Enhances Logic phases 1 3 ISUP ISDN User Part ISC Internet Systems Consortium according to RFC 3261 3GPP 24.228 3GPP 24.229 MAP Mobile Application Part according to 3GPP TS 29.002 DIAMETER and other communication protocols. Further the universal interface handles a variety of message based protocols such as SMPP Short Message Peer to Peer according to SMS Forum XCAP according to RFC 4825 MM7 Multi Media Message 7 UCP Universal Communication Platform MLP Mobile Location Protocol and other message based protocols. Messaging Based protocol is characterized by the kind of service. For example Short Message Service SMS is based on messaging based protocol.

The trigger mediation system may include a service creation environment also referred to as the service broker platform and a service mediation and orchestration module or environment. The service creation environment is responsible for the initial set up creation and implementation of the service arrangement or bundles and may typically be used by Telco personnel to design develop enhance and deploy various services in response to perceived or actual demand for such services or service combinations.

The service mediation and orchestration module automatically orchestrates and processes in real time the service or service bundles requested by the subscriber which have been previously implemented using the service creation environment . The service mediation and orchestration module processes the subscriber s request for service features.

The service creation environment and the service mediation and orchestration module may be coupled to the SCPs and in the legacy IN platform . The legacy IN platform may be a TDM time division multiplex legacy IN platform having control points in the form of SCPs. The service creation environment and the service mediation and orchestration module may also be coupled to the TSPs Telco Service Points in the next generation IN platform and to the SCPs and in the legacy IN platform . The trigger mediation system may orchestrate IN services developed on the next generation TSPs and the SCPs and to create and deliver new and more complex services and or combinations of services.

In operation for example a subscriber or end user may submit a request using a mobile device in communication with the MSC . This may cause a trigger event which indicates the request of one or more specific services. The trigger mediation system then receives the trigger event from the PLMN . However because with the trigger mediation system is in place the MSC does not initiate contact with the corresponding SCPs and or TSPs. Rather the trigger mediation system handles all such communication with the multiple SCPs and or TSPs.

If the subscriber requests a type of service which is based on non messaging type of protocol the core network protocol adapter inspects the request. The core network protocol adaptor includes multiple specific network adapters that allow connectivity and interactions with various service platforms including SIP IMS IN SCP and legacy mobile and fixed networks . The core network protocol adapter determines which core network it is coupled to for example the PLMN CS PLMN or PS PLMN PSTN NGN IMS or OLOs and thus functions as a universal interface to the core networks. Next the core network protocol adapter determines the type of protocol non messaging type protocol for example carrying the service request e.g. INAP CAP ISUP ISC MAP DIAMETER or other communication protocol and sets a non messaging protocol indicator so that corresponding communication and messages are arranged in the appropriate non messaging protocol format.

The network service orchestrator interfaces with the core network protocol adapter to handle and process non message type requests and manages execution of the requested service or service bundle. For example the network service orchestrator may recognize that the subscriber has requested two services although this is transparent to the user such as the 800 number service and the Originating Identification Restriction service described in an earlier example. The network service orchestrator may interrogate a service database or other storage device to determine which specific SCP or TSP provides the 800 number service and which specific SCP or TSP provides the Originating Identification Restriction service. Based on the information obtained from the service database the network service orchestrator connects to the identified SCP and or TSP through the SOA service orchestrator . An SCP is typically identified by a point code while a TSP is identified by an IP address or point code. The interface to the SOA service orchestrator may include a web services type interface using protocols established by SOA methodologies and standards.

Communication with the multiple control points SCPs and or TSPs may occur substantially or effectively simultaneously rather than in a sequential manner as is required with existing communication networks. That is the network service orchestrator communicates with multiple SCPs and TSPs via the SOA service orchestrator during the same session without the need to disconnect from one SCP or TSP and connect with another SCP or TSP . The network service orchestrator passes the service request to the appropriate SCP or TSP and in response the SCP or TSP returns information or processing instructions regarding how to process the service request. Such information returned back from the SCP for example may include the destination number of the call center operator with reference to 800 number service. Based on the information returned by the corresponding SCP the trigger mediation system processes the subscriber s call and corresponding request and thus executes the requested services. For example the SCP may recognize the calling user and service requested via the information stored in its database and may implement service logic based on such information.

The service request from the subscriber which may represent multiple separate service requests is received by the trigger mediation system and represents a single trigger event. Accordingly the multiple SCPs or TSPs are simultaneously contacted based on a single trigger or trigger event. In existing networks without the trigger mediation system the MSC or other node would sequentially contact each SCP requiring a connect disconnect and connect again process to obtain the required information or processing instructions which is a very inefficient use of network bandwidth and processing capacity.

The network service orchestrator extends the capabilities offered by standard 3GPP SCIM Service Capability Integration Management by providing service interaction and mediation solutions across multiple domains covering a variety of networks including for example SS7 based networks SIP IMS networks protocol for the NGN IMS core network and other networks. The network service orchestrator controls and directs service delivery from multiple application platforms and manages session and call information. The network service orchestrator supports standard 3GPP IMS filter criteria processing IMS policy management and on line off line IMS charging functions. The network service orchestrator operation extends to IMS pre IMS IN SS7 networks and other non IMS domains including IT SOA domain.

The SOA service orchestrator leverages the Service Oriented Architecture SOA framework to build complex service functions in a hierarchy. It uses a workflow modeling and execution engine to implement the service logic. This provides a flexible service building block model and may function in conjunction with an application layer based on an enterprise service bus ESB . The SOA framework enables advanced services such as the instant messaging service through a television device. The application layer interfaces with the legacy IN platform and the next generation IN platform . In such a configuration the web services communication interface may be used for communication between the SOA service orchestrator and the application layer . In another embodiment the SOA service orchestrator may interface with a component of the intelligent network IN platform using a non web services interface such as INAP or other protocol associated with the IN.

Like the core network protocol adapter the network enabler protocol adapter also determines which core network it is coupled to for example the PLMN CS PLMN or PS PLMN PSTN NGN IMS or OLOs and thus also functions as a universal interface to the core networks. The network enabler protocol adapter determines the type of messaging protocol carrying the service request such as SMS Gateway MMS Gateway Messaging Platform WAP Gateway SMPP MM7 UPC MPL or other messaging type protocols and sets a messaging protocol indicator so that corresponding communication and messages are arranged in the correct messaging protocol format. The network enabler protocol adaptor may include multiple network plug in components configured to translate network messages into the proper format suitable for processing by the network enabler manager . Once a network or application initiated request is authorized for network access the network enabler protocol adaptor translates the request into the format necessary for a given network node. The network enabler protocol adaptor operates in a similar manner to the core network protocol adaptor but handles messaging type protocol whereas the core network protocol adaptor handles non messaging type protocol.

The network enabler manager interfaces with the network enabler protocol adapter to handle and process messaging type requests and manages execution of the requested service or service bundle. The network enabler manager is similar to the network service orchestrator with respect to function but interfaces with the network enabler protocol adapter to handle messaging type protocol. Like the network service orchestrator the network enabler manager also interfaces with the SOA service orchestrator to perform its function of connecting to the required SCPs and or TSPs. Similarly multiple SCPs and or TSPs are simultaneously handled all stemming from a single trigger.

The above described components included in the service mediation and orchestration module such as the core network protocol adapter the network enabler protocol adapter the network service orchestrator the network enabler manager the service execution manager and the SOA service orchestrator generally involve processing a request for service where the trigger mediation system has been previously used to design develop create and implement the various value added services or service bundles.

On the other hand the service creation environment represents the high level component used by the Telco personnel to perform such design development creation and implementation of service s or service bundle s . A service bundle may be created with multiple parts e.g. individual services for example comprising service A B C and D and the processing engine for performing the actual processing for services A D may be located on one or more SCPs or TSPs coupled to the PLMN or other core networks. A developer using the service creation module first determines the nature of the service bundle or what services are included in the bundle. The service creation module is then used to determine the location and identification of the various SCPs and or TSPs that process the services included in the service bundle. Such information is then stored in the service database .

The service creation module provides various tools for software developers to create new services which may be a combination or bundle of existing services and to extend existing services. Using the service creation module the developer may reduce the time to market for new services and service bundles. The service creation module may include a set of libraries SDK software development kit and configuration tools to permit simple and rapid service and service bundle development. This service creation module may define the standards and interfaces common functionalities that an application developer should apply. The service creation module may be used to develop enabling services such as a location based service where a service is modified depending upon target geography and to create composite services. The service creation module software may be implemented using a suitable high level language object oriented or graphics based language operating on a commercially available computing platform having an industry standard operating system.

A new combination or bundle of existing services may be created using the service creation module tool kit and software development in a graphical format. The developer may combine existing services using a graphical interface which may display the location and identity of the SCP TSP containing the processing engine for the individual service. Graphical links may establish an interconnection or logical relationship between the services on the same or separate SCPs TSPs and protocol information and communications pathway data may be automatically established and saved in the service database . Thus the service database will contain all of the necessary information to enable the network service orchestrator or the network enabler manager to arrange for the service request from a subscriber to be processed and satisfied.

During development of the services using the service creation module the service execution manager manages the environment or infrastructure necessary to support the development. The service execution manager may handle overhead issues corresponding to the various services or service bundles created. Such overhead issues may include memory allocation and organization memory optimization cluster management failure and recovery processing run time process management garbage collection object pooling and cluster management. The service execution manager provides a flexible and scalable carrier grade environment for the requested services and may provide a standardized framework and architecture in which to design and develop the services for a subscriber or application.

The converged subscription manager may be a database or other processing and storage component that contains information or profiles regarding multiple subscribers or end users. Such profile information may include the identity of the subscriber e.g. a name address email or telephone number the types of services requested by the subscriber the frequency of such service requests time of the service requests location of the subscriber at the time of the service request and other customer specific information. The Telco operator may use the profile data to drive decisions regarding the demand for certain services and may also use such data to fine tune or adjust the services or service bundles.

The platform manager monitor is a component configured to monitor service level agreements SLA provide warnings to management and generate service statistics regarding service requests and completion of such requests. Service level agreements are agreed upon values representing the performance criteria for the various services. For example a particular service may be required to operate at a 99.99 success rate over a 24 hour period. Failure to meet such performance criteria may be tracked. The platform manager monitor may also track the popularity or level of customer demand of the services requested by the subscribers and may also track errors or service execution problems and issue error reports to management.

After all of the information for each of the service components relative to each SCP TSP has been identified the developer may use a tool kit or other software module to link the individual services into a service bundle . For each service in the service bundle the communication protocol and communication pathway is defined . Next the service execution manager may establish the operating requirements protocol and infrastructure associated with the service bundle including memory requirements failure and recovery processing run time process management garbage collection and other infrastructure requirements . The information regarding the requirements and characteristics of the service bundle including all SCP TSP related information are saved in the service database so that when a subscriber request is processed the trigger mediation system may query the service database to determine how to satisfy the request .

The location and identity of the multiple SCPs TSPs providing the processing engine for the individual services are then inspected . Using SOA service orchestrator a connection is made to the application or to the IN platform to facilitate communication with the SCPs TSPs . Multiple simultaneous requests are issued to the individual SCPs TSPs corresponding to the separate services of the service bundle . Once the individual SCPs TSPs receive the respective requests information regarding how to handle such requests are returned to the trigger mediation system through the SOA service orchestrator . Based on the instructions returned from the respective SCPs TSPs the trigger mediation system processes the request and handles processing the subscriber s call .

The system for trigger mediation may be embodied as a system cooperating with computer hardware components and or as a computer implemented method. Referring now to a specific embodiment of a high level hardware block diagram of a computer system on which the above described system and method may be implemented is shown generally. A computer system includes a computer or processing system which includes various hardware components such as RAM ROM hard disk storage cache memory database storage and the like also referred to as memory subsystem . The computer system may include any suitable processing device such as a computer microprocessor RISC processor reduced instruction set computer CISC processor complex instruction set computer mainframe computer work station single chip computer distributed processor server controller micro controller discrete logic computer and the like as is known in the art. For example the processing device may be an Intel Pentium microprocessor x86 compatible microprocessor or equivalent device.

The memory subsystem may include any suitable storage components such as RAM EPROM electrically programmable ROM flash memory dynamic memory static memory FIFO first in first out memory LIFO last in first out memory circular memory semiconductor memory bubble memory buffer memory disk memory optical memory cache memory and the like. Any suitable form of memory may be used whether fixed storage on a magnetic medium storage in a semiconductor device or remote storage accessible through a communication link. A user interface may be coupled to the processing system and may include various input devices such as switches selectable by the system manager and or a keyboard. The user interface also may include suitable output devices such as an LCD display a CRT various LED indicators and or a speech output device as is known in the art.

To facilitate communication between the computer system and external sources a communication interface may be operatively coupled to the computer system. The communication interface may be for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network intranet Internet or other suitable network . The communication interface may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN or POTS plain old telephone system which may facilitate communication via the Internet . Dedicated and remote networks may also be employed and the system may further communicate with external exchanges and sources of information . Any suitable commercially available communication device or network may be used.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CDROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits or one or more processors executing instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan and then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

While various embodiments of the trigger mediation system have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

