---

title: User interface for software applications
abstract: A user interface for software applications enables the full use of graphical user interface (GUI) software, particularly engineering design software, by visually impaired individuals. The interface combines tactile representations of graphical elements, non-visual cues, and a hardware element to allow the effective placement and interconnection of graphic elements using design software.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08201090&OS=08201090&RS=08201090
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas
number: 08201090
owner_city: Little Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081113
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 002 873 entitled Multifaceted User Interface for Software Applications filed on Nov. 13 2007. The complete disclosure of such provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under the terms of grant numbers 0405382 and 0533208 from the National Science Foundation. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to computer interfaces in particular to tactile based user interfaces suited for use by visually impaired computer users and more particularly for use by visually impaired engineers and engineering students in connection with engineering design software.

The ability to use the techniques skills and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice is an important requirement for engineering student education and graduation. Germane to this outcome is the use of simulation software for such software represents a key engineering tool that students must master to practice engineering in the modern world. For example chemical engineers use process simulation software to solve material and energy balances for proposed manufacturing schemes or to analyze current processes for the application of possible improvements i.e. de bottlenecking . Examples of software used by chemical engineers for this purpose include PRO II by Simulation Sciences Inc. ASPEN by ASPEN Technology Inc. and CHEMCAD by Chemstations Inc. Each of these software packages function in a generally similar fashion and familiarity with one confers a transferable knowledge base to operate another provided that the basic input output I O routines are understood. Choices of components and flow rates thermodynamic methods unit operations and unit connectivity are provided by the user as input and the calculation engine then performs the material and energy balance sizes or rates equipment and in some cases provides an estimate of the capital investment associated with a design or improvement.

Recent advances in simulation software design have moved from text based i.e. keyword and programming language code input to Graphical User Interfaces GUIs . GUIs are exceptionally attractive to professors because they allow for a significant time savings during student training. Simply put classroom exercises are freed of debugging the keyword syntax required to run the calculation engine. Since pointing and clicking generates the code presumably more time is spent understanding the chemical process being studied and how it may be correctly designed or improved. For example the simulation of a facility to produce ethylene oxide described in the popular design textbook Analysis Synthesis and Design of Chemical Processes may be built with a GUI by dragging twenty three appropriate unit operation icons to a design palette indicating connectivity with lines between icons filling in appropriate drop down menus and then pushing the run button. This generates approximately 200 lines of keyword code by PRO II for example which is then processed through the calculation engine. Entry of this code by hand would take considerably longer than implementing this design using the GUI provided by the software.

One may consider however the difficulty associated with using a GUI if a person has limited or no vision. Classroom activities must obviously accommodate this student in order for the student to succeed. Two avenues exist for student accommodation i falling back so to speak to the exclusive use of keyword files or ii adapting the I O routine of the software package. The inventors of the present invention believe that completely circumventing the use of a GUI may not be a viable long term option for a visually impaired student. The overall requirement of providing instruction for all design students makes the use of GUIs invaluable. It is the inventors understanding however that in order for a federally funded university to be in compliance with section 504 of the Vocational Rehabilitations Act of 1973 Public Law 93 112 accommodations must be made for all qualified students. Although the visually impaired student could work solely with text based code the quality of modern instruction would be sorely compromised for several reasons. First the time allotted to creative exercises would be diminished to allow for the writing and debugging of keyword files. Second avoiding GUIs conflicts with the appropriate training outcome. Third the creation of a separate and distinct educational track for the visually impaired student only delays the inevitable difficulties that will faced by the visually impaired engineering student when that student faces real world engineering tasks as a practicing engineer. Since the visually impaired student would function in a group setting with sighted team members a disparity would exist simply because sighted engineers and visually impaired engineers would approach process simulation differently. Those able to employ a GUI would arguably try more possible solutions whereas those constrained to keyword code may examine fewer scenarios perhaps resulting in a sub optimal solution to a particular engineering problem. Such scenarios are clearly not acceptable in modern chemical engineering education and practice.

The art includes a number of attempts to make various types of computer software packages usable by those persons with impaired vision. In particular there are several methods used by educators of the visually impaired to convey scientific or mathematical content using software. These techniques typically require some visual acuity to produce material for the student. The one way techniques include complicated and costly methods such as Pictures In A Flash PIAF provided by Quantum Technology of Sydney Australia and more simple methods such as raised line drawing kits which are provided through numerous sources including Maxi Aids Inc. of Farmingdale N.Y. PIAF or toasting as it is routinely called is a technique that transfers material from a master to swell paper using heat. First an image is produced from material be it handmade or graphic printout. The image is then transferred using a simple copy machine onto the swell paper then raised by exposing the copy to a concentrated light source. PIAF is more costly because of the paper and light box but can quickly prepare material for a student. At the opposite end of the cost spectrum is the raised line drawing kit. Using this technique an image is transferred to a thin acetate film by pressure. A stylus similar to those packaged with personal digital assistants PDAs is used to score the film producing a line. PIAF and similar methods are considered one way in as much as a person with visual acuity is required and because they are not interactive static representations of material like graphs or diagrams are produced for a student to interpret but there is no means by which the student may manipulate those materials directly.

Screen reading software is a second technique for allowing the visually impaired to interact with computer software. Although digital access has evolved and developed over the years the basic idea of using screen reading software dates back to the days of early personal computing and has remained generally the same since that time. Screen readers have long existed examples include TextTalker for the Apple II and VocalEyes for personal computers running the Microsoft DOS operating system that were able to vocalize the screen content as new information was printed to it in a line by line fashion. Since an application only had text strings and numerical values as input or output manipulating information was relatively easy. Though graphics did exist and limited GUIs were available the main media by which information was conveyed was text based due to the limited computer power that was then available.

With faster processors more memory and cheaper storage media GUIs became more profitable to build maintain and run on desktop computers. Pointing and clicking is the current standard by which I O is achieved. Microsoft introduced the Windows operating system generating selection pressure towards the creation of attractive software relying on GUIs. Since visually impaired users were required to manipulate GUIs utility programs were created that could coherently read graphical information on the screen. Starting in 1997 Microsoft s Active Accessibility MSAA team built and continues to build special tools APIs Application Programming Interfaces and accessibility standards into the Windows operating system that allow leading screen reading packages such as Jaws for Windows from Freedom Scientific Inc. and WindowEyes from GwMicro Inc. to provide computing accessibility to visually impaired professionals. Unfortunately the architecture of many GUI based technical programs does not employ MSAA features. This creates a dilemma for visually impaired users. When one launches an application using non standard controls i.e. graphics or unlabelled objects and buttons that the screen reader cannot recognize or interpret via MSAA or through the Windows API the blind person is plunged back into illiteracy. Such is the case for example with standard plant simulation software used by chemical engineers such as CHEMCAD ASPEN or PRO II. Although screen readers can interpret some aspects of the interface many times there are crucial parts of the GUI that cannot be manipulated with screen reading programs. One critical aspect of these interfaces includes connecting unit operations via point click and or drag. These operations are essential for effective use of such software.

Another attempt to make software usable by those persons with visual impairment is by the use of imbedded audio cues. Non visual cues including audible cues may be imbedded in the software to mimic events normally indicated by visual cues such as textual elements like a cursor shape change. Non visual cues may include audible cues such as spoken words or sounds vibrations kinetic or any other cue that may be sensed. This strategy requires a willingness on the part of the software developer to adapt the software package. For users with only limited vision the accurate location of screen items is difficult or in some cases impossible. To overcome these difficulties distinct sounds may be introduced. For example consider when a user is trying to indicate a stream connection from Unit A to Unit B. Conceptually the user moves the cursor around the icon of Unit A and encounters an available port. When the port is found a sound can be played to indicate successful capture of the port at either Unit A or Unit B. Sounds may also be used to indicate other functions as well. With the feedback of sounds users with limited vision may be promptly informed of events that screen reading programs cannot indicate. The problem with this approach is that it requires the publisher of the software to imbed the audio cues in the software itself making the adaptation of the software for the visually impaired difficult if this effort was not made when the software was written.

Finally tactile representations may be used to locate and place GUI objects. Tactile representations may be as simple as a small sticker placed on a transparency or as complex as a stenciled analog of the icon being represented. A stencil may be designed to mimic the same size of the onscreen icon and provide the user with the needed level of detail to indicate connectivity. Without tactile representations the inventors believe it is almost impossible to design a facility using the drop and click features of a GUI. Tactile representations alone however are believed to be insufficient to provide a complete representation of software functionality to facilitate effective use by a person who is visually impaired.

References mentioned in this background section are not admitted to be prior art with respect to the present invention. The limitations of the prior art are overcome by the present invention as described below.

The inventors set forth with the goal of minimizing the differences between visually impaired and sighted persons with respect to their use of software and in particular with the goal of assisting visually impaired engineering students in the use of modern engineering software. The inventors have achieved this goal through a combination of techniques that adapt I O in a creative fashion. The invention results from a combination of screen reading programs non visual cues and tactile representations of GUI objects to provide access to modern simulation software for in one preferred embodiment a chemical engineering student. To the inventors knowledge this multifaceted approach has not been attempted with technical software packages.

It is therefore the goal of the present invention to provide an interface that allows a person with visual impairment to utilize modern software in a manner most closely analogous to the manner in which the software may be employed by a sighted person using GUIs.

These and other features objects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood from a consideration of the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments and appended claim in conjunction with the drawings as described following 

In order to examine the effectiveness of combining screen reading imbedded audio cues and tactile representations to allow a visually impaired person to operate a GUI the inventors utilized CHEMCAD version 5.5 in a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Although one script file for JAWS was written to provide for the reading of certain pop up information boxes most of the GUI features of CHEMCAD were accessed or initiated via the adaptations as described herein. A tablet PC slate model M1200 available from Motion Computing of Austin Tex. and equipped with a USB connected keyboard was employed in a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The visually impaired student used this system to design various chemical manufacturing schemes and several separation systems for a hydrocarbon mix.

As stated previously chemical engineers today use plant simulation software that has a great dependency on GUIs. Although screen readers can inform the user of certain onscreen changes automatically move the mouse to a predefined point and duplicate certain mouse actions it is impossible to tell the screen reader what to do or where to click if there is no a priori spatial knowledge. Such is the case when one is tasked with the design of a chemical plant in any GUI environment. As the screen reader cannot manipulate graphics alone a method was needed to solve this problem.

At the center of the solution presented by the preferred embodiment of the present invention was the use of tactile representations layered above a hardware surface. Two options were considered for this element an Iveo touchpad from ViewPlus Technologies Inc. and a tablet PC. These two options were considered because each represented different means by which the pointing device is tracked and point and click operations occur. Both options can register interactions at spatially distinct points on the surface. The Iveo touchpad s pointing device is the user s finger while the table PC s pointing device is a special pen. With the Iveo touchpad the user interacts with the computer via a USB connected letter sized paper touchpad. When the user touches the touchpad a mouse click occurs and is registered spatially. Outside of native Iveo applications the inventors hereof found that the touchpad does not easily allow for drag and drop or selection using a mouse click plus sweep of an area. These shortcomings made design with the Iveo touchpad difficult with the native current drivers provided with the touchpad.

Use of the tablet PC as shown in was more successful and is therefore employed in the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The tablet PC registered interactions such as a mouse click not with a finger touch but with the use of a special pen. This allowed the visually impaired student to use his or her fingers to explore the tactile representations and connection points without spurious clicks of the mouse. Moreover both a right click and left click were possible using the pointing device in this case a pen. When the pen was within approximately 1 cm of the surface of the tablet screen the pointer hovered over the pallet or finished design allowing the user to perform certain actions. Specific to CHEMCAD the user had the ability to hover in order to read various pop up windows describing conditions such as flows temperatures pressures and or sizing of the plant components under the elevated pen point. The visually impaired student using a screen reader could easily read these pop up windows much like his or her sighted counterparts provided that a JAWS script file designed for this purpose was installed. Once the visually impaired design student had a tactile layout of the plant on a removable overlay he or she could easily find and manipulate tactile representations as shown in . Assuming the tactile representations did not move the student could easily find the tactile markers and perform various actions related to design and optimization of the process. Tactile representations may be made of various materials but are preferably relatively inflexible and able to support embossing hole punching and the like. In a preferred embodiment the tactile representations are made from a heavy acetate polymer with a second layer adhered thereto.

Layout of the plant via the building of the flowsheet involved two major tasks i placing tactile representations of unit operations on the design medium and ii indicating and connecting related unit operations with mouse actions within the tablet PC. This operation is depicted in showing layout as displayed on a screen for sighted persons. Audible cues embedded in CHEMCAD address the second of the tasks listed above. A comparison between sighted users and those with impaired vision can be made to explain the audible enhancements. A sighted user first decides where to make a connection by placing the cursor close to a port on an icon. The user then starts drawing the stream with a left click. Drawing continues until the cursor reaches a different type of port on another icon and finally the user connects the stream with a left click. In contrast the visually impaired user must first locate the connection port on the tactile representation. The user then listens for the appropriate verbal indicator that signifies either an inlet or outlet port before performing a mouse click with the tablet PC pen.

Initially reinforcement stickers such as those typically used to strengthen paper around a binder punch hole were used as tactile representations of unit operations or icons. These stickers are adhesive making design somewhat intuitive to the user. Since these reinforcement stickers have holes in the center there is a convenient spot that acts as a tactile irregularity to indicate where the click could or should occur that is a landing or drop point for the icon. With the auditory feedback mechanisms built into CHEMCAD the reinforcement sticker method worked well to connect small unit operation icons such as pumps feeds and products since the drop point for a unit and the feed and product ports are close together. With the stickers one only had to search for the sound cue for an inlet or an outlet and drop the pen to click and subsequently place the icon on the screen.

The reinforcement sticker method was less effective however when more complicated unit operation icons such as mixers distillation columns or heat exchangers were incorporated into a design. With distillation columns for example there were several points where the cursor may be placed to make connections. A sticker with one central point did not achieve fine enough tactile control to allow a distillation column to be attached to a feed point and then discharge the bottoms and the tops of the column into two different parts of the plant. This shortcoming spurred the development of tactile stencils having multiple tactile irregularities for design of more complex process flow diagrams and computer simulations. A variety of tactile irregularities may be used including holes embossed patterns or depressions bumps and the like.

In the preferred embodiment complex tactile stencils were designed to mimic the size of the onscreen icons as shown in . As a convention all tactile stencils had a drop point or orientation marker dedicated to the upper left hand corner. Stencils were printed out by using a 1 1 screen shot of the main pallet taken from CHEMCAD sized to the screen of the tablet PC and printed onto adhesive label paper. A careful mapping was made of the click actions associated with the icon drop point and inlet and outlet ports . This was accomplished by overlaying a grid using a built in CHEMCAD function. Stencils were printed out on adhesive paper and placed on a sturdy material. A heavy acetate polymer that is relatively inflexible had been used as a backing for the tactile stencils. After the stickers were affixed to the backing material holes were punched where the drop point and ports were indicated. Other tactile irregularities besides holes may be used including an embossed pattern or depression or a bump in the tactile representation. Finally Braille labels were optionally embossed on the tactile stencil using a Perkins Brailler. The upper right corner of the stencil was then removed to create orientation marker allowing for proper orientation of the stencil on the screen overlay .

Combining the Braille and alphabetic print on stencil was advantageous for several reasons. Notably it enabled a sighted peer to see what the visually impaired student had placed on the design medium thereby allowing for an initial troubleshoot of the design before it was transferred to the PC. A sighted person was able to fully interact with his or her visually impaired counterpart because both understood what the icon represented in contrast to exclusively labeling the various elements with Braille. Alternately the screen output could be mirrored to an external monitor using a projector as depicted in .

Other problems that had to be solved included the choice of adhesive and design medium or overlay that was layered above the tablet PC screen . Since the visually impaired individual must rely on the fact that the drop points and associated inlets and outlets were in the same place on the screen every time to allow accurate connection of internal streams it was vital to secure each stencil onto the design medium . Double sided tape was found to be the best choice for adhesion of stencils to design medium in the preferred embodiment. Transparent film was used for design medium in order to allow a sighted individual to see through to the screen. Other suitable overlays may include transparencies commonly made of cellulose acetate of the sort commonly used with overhead projectors polyacetate or similarly transparent material. The overlay may fit within the tablet screen surface or may encompass the entirety of the tablet or other screen.

Affixed to all design mediums were marked locations as shown in for two very important icons not accessible through menu commands i the select unit op submenu icon and ii the stream editor icon. A click on the tactile representation of the select unit op submenu allowed the user to invoke a submenu that was navigated by the screen reader. This submenu allowed the visually impaired individual to select the unit operation icon of choice without having to search the cluttered visual pallet or place too many tactile elements on the transparency creating confusion for the student. Another tactile dot marked the stream editor utility that provides connectivity and stitches the process together. These two marker locations were represented with small felt covered stickers since a single simple click invoked the respective functions.

The main hurdle presented by GUI based technical software packages is the fact that the student or professional must manipulate graphics with the use of mouse actions to create tangible and working designs. Using a combination of imbedded audio cues and tactile representations allows a visually impaired student to operate CHEMCAD a technical software package used in academia and industry in the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The adaptations described herein could in principal be applied to any GUI based technical package used in a classroom or professional setting. The visually impaired person may easily generate diagrams with an I O system such as the tablet PC as outlined herein and within the scope of the present invention. Using an active design canvas such as the tablet PC according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention a visually impaired student functions in a manner essentially equivalent to his or her sighted counterpart in the classroom.

The present invention has been described with reference to certain preferred and alternative embodiments that are intended to be exemplary only and not limiting to the full scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

