---

title: Method and system for the prevention of unwanted wireless telecommunications
abstract: A method and system for filtering unwanted wireless telecommunications includes structure and steps/function for monitoring traffic associated with roaming subscribers, the traffic being carried via inter-network Internet Protocol links. Structure and steps/function are also provided for intercepting a send-routing-information message from an originating node within the traffic, and initiating a response to the originating node so as to direct the originating node to send a short message service (SMS) or Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) associated with the send-routing-information message to a SPAM-filter via an SMS or MMS delivery message. Structure and steps/function are further provided for receiving the SMS or MMS at the SPAM-filter, and determining, at the SPAM-filter, whether the SMS or MMS constitutes an unwanted message. Also, structure and steps/function are provided for invoking an action for managing the SMS based on results of the determining process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08027695&OS=08027695&RS=08027695
owner: Redknee, Inc.
number: 08027695
owner_city: Mississauga
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20080320
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 318 931 allowed filed on Dec. 28 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 704 735 pending filed on Nov. 12 2003 the contents of both being incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to telecommunications software employed in wireless telephony and more specifically to a fully integrated computer program product and architecture for the inhibition of unsolicited wireless telecommunications prior to their receipt by the intended party.

Unsolicited and otherwise undesirable telephone calls e mails and faxes have become something of a ubiquity in today s highly prized communications age. Ironically and almost inevitably in advancing the art users of wireless subscribers are now experiencing similar types of unsolicited messages and or telecommunications at their handsets and or mobile devices including unsolicited Short Message Service SMS SMS spam Multimedia Messaging Service MMS and Enhanced Messaging Service EMS among others. Particularly prevalent in Europe owing principally to the more mature SMS and MMS market presence and usage therewith it remains readily apparent that the problem will soon spread quantitatively and geographically.

Elements of the prior art as U.S. Patent Application 20030083078 by Allison et al. entitled methods and systems for preventing delivery of unwanted short message service SMS messages which discloses a method whereby a signaling message processing and routing node transmits and receives short message service SMS data packets via a communications network and therewith includes an SMS message discrimination module that determines whether an unwanted or spam SMS message is being sent to a receiving or called party. Nonetheless said application by Allison et al. inevitably remains tied to the prevention of SMS only and appears to be Global System for Mobile communications GSM International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI centric as well as constrained by reliance upon Signaling System 7 SS7 Session Initiation Protocol SIP signaling. Indeed our invention of present remains unconstrained by such considerations and indeed applies filtering rules and paradigms to incoming messages from External Short Messaging Entities ESMEs i.e. on content received via an Application Programming Interface API or via a Short Message Peer to peer Protocol SMPP Universal Computer Protocol UCP MultiMedia MMx interface and or to all forms of asynchronous communications including but not limited to SMS MMS and EMS. Our invention additionally provides for the application of network side filtering to a broader set of network protocols including those prescribed by the Telecommunications Industry Association TIA American National Standards Institute ANSI 41 and may also filter media and telecommunications based on the current location and presence status of the subscriber and in alternate embodiments may store unsolicited informational and marketing oriented messages spam to be viewed in an off line state.

Other teachings from the prior art include U.S. Patent Application 20030074397 by Morin et al. entitled system and method to control sending of unsolicited communications over a network however such art remains irrelevant to the teachings discloses in our application as Morin et al. effectively employ an intermediary agent to relay content akin to its own messaging service .

U.S. Patent Application 20030021244 by Anderson D. entitled methods and systems of blocking and or disregarding data and related wireless terminals and wireless service providers provides a means for determining whether a packet of data received at a wireless terminal is from an acceptable source and then processed accordingly therewith . However the paucity in the disclosure by Anderson is that it blocks packets for designated sources i.e. IP addresses or equivalent addresses that is while it will allow or disallow an SMS Server it cannot block SMS s based on a finer granularity i.e. the actual originating address such as the External Short Message Entity ESME identifier or Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSISDN for instance .

WIPO Patent Application WO 03026331 by Jaeaelinoja et al. entitled method and apparatus for processing messages discloses a method for processing SMS or MMS messages in a gateway comprising the steps of classifying the messages based on their certain characteristics and processing the classified messages based on certain processing code that takes the classification into account. The principal delineation between such art and that of the present seeking the protection of Letters Patent remains that Jaeaelinoja et al. focuses on filtering on the input to the SMS C i.e. via the SMPP or equivalent protocol . Likewise German Patent No. 10114649 to Koehler U. entitled method for selecting consignees within telephone or cell phone network requires initially comparing incoming subscriber directory numbers and or authorized information with stored subscriber numbers discloses a method whereby a subscriber sets a filter via a control code and a short message service or via the internet into the information control Short Message Service Center SMSC assigned to him on the basis of his subscriber number identification or on the basis of a password or according to the call e mail or Wireless Application Protocol WAP which blocks incoming information already in the information control or switches it thorough. Nonetheless the patent seems to presume that the functionality resides in the SMS C. Indeed much art is directed and constrained by over reliance on the SMS C and its known functionality.

The invention has been disclosed herewith to address the overall deficiencies and or lack of foresight demonstrated in the art particularly when one allows for the international spotlight which has been placed on the quandary by the European Union and their Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive 2002 58 EC . Indeed paragraph forty 40 of the Directive s Preamble provides that s afeguards should be provided for subscribers against intrusion of their privacy by unsolicited communications for direct marketing purposes in particular by means of automated calling machines telefaxes and e mails including SMS messages. These forms of unsolicited commercial communications may on the one hand be relatively easy and cheap to send and on the other may impose a burden and or cost on the recipient. Moreover in some cases their volume may also cause difficulties for electronic communications networks and terminal equipment. For such forms of unsolicited communications for direct marketing it is justified to require that prior explicit consent of the recipients is obtained before such communications are addressed to them. The single market requires a harmonized approach to ensure simple Community wide rules for businesses and users. 

While other media rich forms of asynchronous communications are expected to supplant SMS over course of the three 3 years e.g. MMS and Push to talk Over Cellular PoC the growth in SMS messaging is expected to continue to increase over the next 12 18 months. Although a portion of this growth is expected to be spurred by increasing adoption of SMS in mature markets as well as the introduction of digital wireless communications in emerging markets a major source of growth of SMS messaging is likely to be associated with the broadcast of unsolicited informational and marketing oriented messages spam . To the extent that spam is unsolicited and not explicitly authorized it constitutes a potential irritant to the receiving party. In particular the steady geometric increase in SMS messages are increasingly beginning to detract from the benefits of SMS. For example personal messages may be lost or forgotten.

Telecommunications network operators and like entities must effectively achieve a balance between promoting the generation of incremental revenues through the use of SMS based advertising informational messages while complying with existing or as yet but likely to be introduced Privacy and or Electronic Communications legislation which usually call for explicit opt in mechanisms for the delivery of such marketing and or related promotional and or informational material .

To this end the invention of present speaks to a method and system for the prevention of unwanted wireless telecommunications which is implemented as part of a computer program product in preferentially the telecommunications operator s network which meets and or exceeds much of current proposed and even academically anticipated legislative and by necessity technical criteria and indeed thereby complies with the broader body of prima facie consumer requirements associated with wireless telecommunications spam filtering. In one embodiment of the invention the art disclosed addresses the issues associated with effectively filtering SMS spam introduced by External Short Message Entity ESME sources associated with the Home Operator as well as filtering SMS spam introduced by EMSE s outside of the Home Operators control which may be hosted in a foreign jurisdiction .

In another embodiment of the invention as it specifically relates to SMS the invention is designed to block Mobile Terminating MT messages rather than Mobile Originating MO ones since the inventors in seeking to advance the art grant and hold that an architecture which filters MT messages is far more comprehensive and through than a MO filtering solution since it filters messages leaving the Short Message Service Center SMSC and as result is not limited to SMS messages originated within the network. Indeed if MO filtering solutions have the capability to filter both MO and ESME originated SMS messages the network provider can never be sure that all foreign incoming messages are routed through a filter.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the art provides for a highly robust system through the implementation of a two phase filtering process where messages are intercepted via SS7 in this illustrative instance . Whereby the first filtering process intercepts Send Routing Information for Short Messages SRI for SM on their way to the Home Location Register HLR and the second intercepts Mobile Terminated Forward Short Messages MT FSM on route to the MSC.

This invention provides for a remarkably flexible and customizable advance in the art through the utilization of a progressive filtering algorithm. This algorithm offers both the subscriber and the service provider with the capability to block and or extract potentially harmful or unsolicited SMS MMS and other such messages on the basis of an extensive range of parameters and rules.

Members skilled in the art will recognize that the ensuing represents an illustrative recital of the preferred embodiments of the invention of present and other embodiments may be articulated gleaned and articulated from such while still remaining with in its spirit and scope. Indeed equivalents found within the state of the art and those which may reasonably and effectively be deemed equivalent in the future should also be understood as being incorporated by reference hereto and such. Furthermore much of the language has been illustrative and is to be construed as expressly for pedagogical purposes in helping elucidate the art as concisely and beneficially as practical.

The invention discloses a method and system of filtering unsolicited informational and marketing oriented messages spam based on inputs into the Network Operator s network including but not limited to asynchronous messages received via TCP IP protocols including SMPP Short Message Peer to Peer UCP Universal Computer Protocol MMx MM1 MM4 MM7 associated with the provision of Multi Media Service messages SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol and POP3 Post Office Protocol . Furthermore this method and system of filtering spam as defined above messages can be applied to messages received in the form of an API Application Programming Interface such as those generally prescribed by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Open Mobile Alliance OMA European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI and Parlay The Parlay Group is a technical industry consortium that specifies APIs for the telephone network. 

In the preferred embodiment the spam is filtered based on intermediating network protocols including but not limited to SS7 based SMS protocols such as those prescribed by GSM 03.40 and Electronic Industries Alliance EIA Telecommunications Industry Association TIA Interim Standard IS 841 as amended from time to time and Session Initiation Protocol SIP based protocols such as those prescribed by the SIMPLE SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions protocol defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF as amended from time to time . In the case of SS7 based SMS protocols the invention will specifically intermediate and filter messages such as MO Forward Short Messages GSM and Short Message Delivery Point to Point SMDPP ANSI 41 messages prior to forwarding the message to the SMSC Short Message Service Center which will deliver the message per existing methods and protocols as described in the state of the art .

In the preferred embodiments the filtering mechanism is based on the or any combination of source address destination address network element address e.g. SMSC Address protocol id type data coding scheme keyword content search service identifier e.g. the service type field provided in a Submit SM message to a SMSC location or presence status of the originator and or destination. With respect to location the invention will either interface with a location element e.g. Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC GSM or Mobile Positioning Center MPC ANSI 41 or directly determine the location of the subscriber s based on methods and protocols as described in the art e.g. GSM 03.71 .

One embodiment of the invention provides the logic necessary for the filtering of spam for roaming SMS traffic. A SS7 monitoring subsystem monitors and intermediates traffic associated with roaming subscribers wherein the messaging intermediation node would typically be located so as to intermediate traffic on inter network SS7 links. The messaging intermediation node will specifically intercept Send Routing Information for Short Message SRI for SM GSM or Short Message Service Request SMSREQ IS 41 messages. And upon intercepting the SRI for SM SMSREQ message the messaging intermediation node will initiate a response to the originating node typically a SMS C so as to direct the actual SMS message to the SMS filtering subsystem which may be hosted by messaging intermediation node. The network element in the foreign network the SMSC in this instance will direct the SMS message to the SMS filtering subsystem via a MT Forward Short Message GSM or SMDPP Short Message Delivery Point to Point ANSI 41 message. The SMS filtering subsystem will determine whether the message constitutes spam and will invoke the appropriate action delete store for later viewing notify the originating node of a failure or successful delivery i.e. to prevent resubmissions and so forth. Should the SMS message be considered a valid message the messaging intermediation node may either deliver the message directly in which case the messaging intermediation node will request the location of the serving network element from the subscribers HLR Home Location Register i.e. via a SRI for SM GSM or SMSREQ IS 41 message and in turn the messaging intermediation node will initiate an attempt to deliver the SMS message to the serving node via the appropriate message Mobile Terminated Forward Short Message MT FSM GSM or SMDPP ANSI 41 or provide the message to the SMSC via the applicable interface e.g. SMPP in order to leverage the store and forward mechanisms which are described in the state of the art. In a rather sui generis hybrid scenario an unsuccessful attempt to initially deliver the message as per the former may be forwarded to the subscriber s SMSC for delivery via latter of the scenarios outlined in the previous sentence .

Indeed the actual elements and ranges of parameters are configurable by either the subscriber or network operator via well documented mechanisms such as web based GUIs and bulk loading of parametric attributes.

In alternate embodiments such filtered content will optionally be stored for later retrieval or viewing by the subscriber or network operator. In yet another embodiment an e mail can be generated and forwarded to the subscriber on a configurable periodic basis which provides statistics as well as content messages which were filtered using the current settings.

Although implemented as part of a computer program product has been included to further elucidate and enable the invention disclosed herewith. Indeed members skilled in the art will recognize that much of the functionality depicted in said figure remains conceptual and high level in light of the nature of computer program products and their functionality and functional processes. For illustrative purposes the invention may be articulated with four 4 external interfaces and two 2 incoming A B and two 2 outgoing A B . Incoming interfaces in this illustrative embodiment include the SMS Spam Filter HLR. Interface A and the SMS Spam Filter MT MSC Interface B. Whereas the outgoing interfaces in this illustrative embodiment include the UPS Interface A to retrieve the subscriber barring plan and External spam filter API B.

The spam filter HLR logic has been articulated in this illustration to deal with unsolicited informational and marketing oriented SMS messages. At the invention processes the incoming SRI for SM and checks if the SMSC address has not been barred in the SMSC database list . If barred said request is rejected if not the SRI for SM is forwarded to the HLR not shown . The invention then checks if the said subscriber is already in the subscriber cache . If so then the invention requests B the spam profile from the external spamming filter software. If not the invention then requests A the barring profile from the UPS.

The invention then receives the SRI for SM response from the HLR not shown and forwards the SRI for SM to the foreign SMSC after all profiles are received. After which said barring information is stored in the subscriber cache .

In relation to the SMS in this instance Spam Filter MT MSC Logic the invention processes the incoming MT FSM and requests the subscriber barring profiles from subscriber cache . The invention therewith compares the messages in question with the spamming profiles and continues when no spamming profile has been matched or otherwise the message is rejected. The message is then forwarded to the destination MSC Mobile Switching Center wherewith the MT FSM response is thereby received from destination MSC and the message is forwarded to the originated SMSC all not shown as already well document in the state of the art .

