---

title: Frequency shift reservoir localization
abstract: A method and system of detecting and mapping a subsurface hydrocarbon reservoir includes acquiring seismic data having a plurality of components, applying a data transform to the seismic data to obtain seismic data spectral component maxima and maxima profiles, and recording the maxima or maxima profile in a form for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08233350&OS=08233350&RS=08233350
owner: Spectraseis AG
number: 08233350
owner_city: Zürich
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20080829
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 968 811 filed 29 Aug. 2007 and incorporated herein for all purposes.

The disclosure is related to seismic exploration for oil and gas and more particularly to processing and displaying seismic data.

Seismic exploration for hydrocarbons generally is conducted using a source of seismic energy and receiving and recording the energy generated by the source using seismic detectors. On land the seismic energy source may be an explosive charge or another energy source having the capacity to impart impacts or mechanical vibrations at or near the earth s surface. Seismic waves generated by these sources travel into the earth subsurface and are reflected back from boundaries and reach the surface of the earth at varying intervals of time depending on the distance traveled and the characteristics of the subsurface material traversed. The return waves are detected by the sensors and representations of the seismic waves as representative electrical signals are recorded for processing.

Normally signals from sensors located at varying distances from the source are combined together during processing to produce stacked seismic traces. In marine seismic surveys the source of seismic energy is typically air guns. Marine seismic surveys typically employ a plurality of sources and or a plurality of streamer cables in which seismic sensors are mounted to gather three dimensional data.

The process of exploring for and exploiting subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs is often costly and inefficient because operators have imperfect information from geophysical and geological characteristics about reservoir locations. Furthermore a reservoir s characteristics may change as it is produced.

Data acquisition for oil exploration may have a negative impact on the environment. The impact of oil exploration methods on the environment may be reduced by using low impact methods and or by narrowing the scope of methods requiring an active source including reflection seismic and electromagnetic surveying methods.

Geophysical and geological methods are used to determine well locations. Expensive exploration investment is often focused in the most promising areas using relatively slow methods such as reflection seismic data acquisition and processing. The acquired data are used for mapping potential hydrocarbon bearing areas within a survey area to optimize exploratory well locations and to minimize costly non productive wells.

The time from mineral discovery to production may be shortened if the total time required to evaluate and explore a survey area can be reduced by applying selected methods alone or in combination with other geophysical methods. Some methods may be used as a standalone decision tool for oil and gas development decisions when no other data is available. Preferable methods will be economical have a low environmental impact and relatively efficient with rapid data acquisition and processing.

Geophysical and geological methods are used to maximize production after reservoir discovery as well. Reservoirs are analyzed using time lapse surveys i.e. repeat applications of geophysical methods over time to understand reservoir changes during production.

A method of locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs or displaying hydrocarbon potential maps includes acquiring seismic data having a plurality of components applying a data transform to the seismic data to obtain seismic data spectral component maxima and maxima profiles and recording the maxima or maxima profile in a form for display.

Information to enable the direct detection of hydrocarbon reservoirs or forming hydrocarbon potential maps or displays may be extracted from naturally occurring seismic waves and vibrations measured at the earth s surface. These naturally occurring waves may be measured using passive seismic data acquisition methods to acquire naturally occurring background seismic data. The relative positions of frequency attributes are indicative of the surface expression of subsurface zones where hydrocarbons are present.

Low impact survey methods like passive seismic data acquisition may be used for reconnaissance in frontier exploration areas to monitor reservoirs over the productive life of a field or to cost effectively upgrade data room information to generate higher license bids. Specific applications for passive seismic data include monitoring fluid flow estimating shear wave velocities site zonation and shear wave amplification studies for earthquake hazard surveys monitoring hydraulic fracturing during reservoir stimulation and inversion for earth structure.

Passive seismic data acquisition methods rely on seismic energy from sources not directly associated with the data acquisition. In passive seismic monitoring there is no actively controlled and triggered source. Examples of low frequency ambient waves that may be recorded with passive seismic acquisition are microseisms e.g. rhythmically and persistently recurring low frequency earth tremors microtremors and other anthropogenic or localized seismic energy sources.

Microtremors are attributed to the background energy present in the earth that may be due to non seismic sources or anthropogenic noise. Microtremor seismic waves may include sustained seismic signals within a limited frequency range. Microtremor signals like all seismic waves contain information affecting spectral signature characteristics due to the media or environment that the seismic waves traverse. These naturally occurring relatively low frequency background seismic waves sometimes termed noise or hum of the earth may be generated from a variety of sources some of which may be indeterminate.

Survey results from passive seismic surveying demonstrate that the spectral characteristics of microtremor seismic waves often contain relevant information for direct hydrocarbon detection. Direct hydrocarbon reservoir indicators may be extracted from naturally occurring low frequency background seismic data using spectral analysis of these microtremors. Spectral attributes or changes in spectral frequencies over geographic areas may be used to delineate subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs. Microtremor analysis provides a method for identification and mapping of fluid reservoirs or reservoir related parameters directly from frequency attribute data acquired near the earth s surface in land and marine areas using naturally occurring seismic background waves. Collected over time these data highlight changes in reservoir parameters.

Frequency attribute analysis in the surface expression of seismic data allows for direct determination of a hydrocarbon reservoir independent of the subsurface reservoir structure. Additionally the thickness of strata associated with a hydrocarbon reservoir may be determined or inferred from microtremor analysis and associated frequency attributes.

One or more sensors are used to measure vertical and horizontal components of motion due to background seismic waves at multiple locations within a survey area. These components may be measured separately or in combination and may be recorded as signals representing displacement velocity and or acceleration.

As the spectral ratio of the acquired signal for any location may be quite stable over time the components of motion may not need to be measured simultaneously. This may be especially applicable in areas with relatively low local ambient wave energy and for data acquired over relatively short time periods e.g. a few weeks . Spectral ratios determined from asynchronous components at a location may be used as it is the relative difference of spectral components as opposed to specific contemporaneous differences that may be indicative of reservoir characteristics. However due to anthropogenic or localized seismic energy generated in the vicinity of the seismic survey not related to subsurface reservoirs relative quiescent periods free of this local anthropogenic seismic energy wherein orthogonal data components are substantially contemporaneously acquired may provide better quality data for delineating subsurface characteristics.

Geophysical survey local conditions may affect a method s results. In many cases the frequency attribute method described herein provides a reliable direct hydrocarbon indicator in other cases a skilled operator can use the results to improve their interpretation of other geological and geophysical data and generate an improved subsurface model allowing for risk reduction and more efficient exploration and production decisions.

The sensor equipment for measuring seismic waves may be any type of seismometer. Seismometer equipment having a large dynamic range and enhanced sensitivity compared with other transducers may provide the best results e.g. broadband multicomponent earthquake seismometers . A number of commercially available sensors utilizing different technologies may be used e.g. a balanced force feed back instrument or an electrochemical sensor. An instrument with high sensitivity at very low frequencies and good coupling with the earth enhances the efficacy of the method.

Ambient noise conditions representative of seismic wave energy that may have not traversed subsurface reservoirs can negatively affect the recorded data. Techniques for removing unwanted artifacts and artificial signals from the data such as cultural and industrial noise are important for applying this method successfully in areas where there is high ambient noise that has not interacted with a subsurface hydrocarbon reservoir.

The frequency shift attribute method for reservoir localization has several advantages over conventional seismic data acquisition for exploration including that the technique does not require an artificial seismic source such as an explosion mechanically generated vibration or electric current. Additionally the results from spectral analysis are repeatable and the results may be correlated to hydrocarbon accumulations. There is little or no environmental impact due to data acquisition. The method is applicable for land transition zones and marine areas. The method has application in areas where higher frequencies are greatly affected by geological conditions e.g. in areas where soft soil layers attenuate high frequency seismic signals as well as areas where salt formations or volcanic bodies e.g. basalt flows volcanic sills scatter or obscure higher frequencies.

Data are acquired with arrays which may be 2D or 3D or even arbitrarily positioned sensors as illustrated in . illustrates various acquisition geometries which may be selected based on operational considerations. Array is a 2D array and while illustrated with regularly spaced sensors regular distribution is not a requirement. Array and are example illustrations of 3D arrays. Sensor distribution could be considered an array of arbitrarily placed sensors and may even provide for some modification of possible spatial aliasing that can occur with regular spaced sensor acquisition arrays.

While data may be acquired with multi component earthquake seismometer equipment with large dynamic range and enhanced sensitivity relative to conventional equipment many different types of sensor instruments can be used with different underlying technologies and varying sensitivities. Sensor positioning during recording may vary e.g. sensors may be positioned on the ground below the surface or in a borehole. The sensor may be positioned on a tripod or rock pad. Sensors may be enclosed in a protective housing for ocean bottom placement. Wherever sensors are positioned good coupling results in better data. Recording time may vary e.g. from minutes to hours or days. In general terms longer term measurements may be helpful in areas where there is high ambient noise and provide extended periods of data with fewer noise problems.

The layout of a data survey may be varied e.g. measurement locations may be close together or spaced widely apart and different locations may be occupied for acquiring measurements consecutively or simultaneously. Simultaneous recording of a plurality of locations a sensor array may provide for relative consistency in environmental conditions that may be helpful in ameliorating problematic or localized ambient noise not related to subsurface characteristics of interest. Additionally the array may provide signal differentiation advantages due to commonalities and differences in the recorded signal.

The selected frequency attributes for comparison may be maximum amplitude the second maximum amplitude over a range subordinate in value to the maximum a third maximum subordinate in value to the maximum and the second maximum the third maximum value or the envelope maximum over the selected range.

These values are compared or plotted to determine the geographical location where the values are a maximum . This maximum is indicative of where subsurface hydrocarbons are most likely to be found hence a hydrocarbon potential map may be developed from these values. The frequency attribute values may be stored in a form for display . A hydrocarbon potential map may be formed by a display of the any of the selected values or the relative relationships of the various first second third and any subsequently determined maxima.

The vector data may be divided into time windows for processing. Window lengths may be greater than ten times the period of the lowest frequency of interest. For example if a frequency of interest has a period around 7 seconds all the windows may be at least 70 seconds long. However the length of time windows for analysis may be chosen to accommodate processing or operational concerns.

A data transform may be applied to each component of the vector data . Seismic data frequency content often varies with time. Time frequency decomposition spectral decomposition of a seismic signal enables analysis and characterization of the signal time dependent frequency response due to subsurface materials and reservoir parameters.

Various data transformations are useful for time frequency analysis of seismic signals such as continuous or discrete Fourier or wavelet transforms. Examples include without limitation the classic Fourier transform or one of the many continuous Wavelet transforms CWT or discreet wavelet transforms. Examples of other transforms include Haar transforms Haademard transforms and wavelet transforms. The Morlet wavelet is an example of a wavelet transform that may be applied to seismic data. Wavelet transforms have the attractive property that the corresponding expansion may be differentiable term by term when the seismic trace is smooth. Additionally signal analysis filtering and suppressing unwanted signal artifacts may be carried out efficiently using transforms applied to the acquired data signals.

One or more orthogonal components of the acquired data may be merged for example the horizontal data components . Horizontal components Ve and Vn may be merged by any of several ways including a root mean square average so that horizontal component H may be defined as H square root over V V 2 . Whether merging data components is undertaken before or after a data transform is applied to the data is a matter of choice.

Additionally the spectra may be smoothed using a moving average . The smoothing parameter defines the width of the window in Hz used for calculating moving averages. A large smoothing parameter leads to strong smoothing and a small smoothing parameter leads to less smoothing. Typical values may be between 0.1 Hz and 2 Hz but will be case dependent. A smoothing parameter for a flow may be selected at the beginning of a processing flow for application prior to calculating a spectral ratio.

The V H spectral ratio is calculated based on the spectral division e.g. point by point spectral division between the transformed output of at least two orthogonal components such as a horizontal spectral component and the vertical spectral component. The horizontal component may be a combination of the measured horizontal components as in . These spectra or the calculated spectral ratios may be averaged over time windows . Averaging over time windows may be by arithmetic mean or geometric mean. Averaging of spectra may be undertaken before or after dividing the spectra into spectral ratios. The results after this processing may be output in a form for mapping or other display. Maps of these results using relative spectral amplitude maxima may provide direct indications of the geographical extent of hydrocarbon reservoirs in the field survey vicinity as outlined in .

The multicomponent input data may be cleaned to remove transients . One way to remove transients is to process data when transients are not present. Signal filtering with the time domain data include frequency filtering and bias removal. The data may be detrended so that one or more linear trends are removed. The data may be band pass filtered or a DC offset bias removed as well.

The data may be divided into time windows . The time window length for data vectors may be chosen based on operational or processing considerations and an example length may correspond to 10 cycles of the lower frequency range of interest. Horizontal data components may be merged for example by averaging or by a root mean square weighting of the values.

Data may be rotated to any desired reference frame. A reference frame where the vertical vector direction is normal to the geoid may be beneficial for subsequent formation of attributes. The spectra may be smoothed for example with a moving average function. The data may be decomposed into spectral components by any time frequency decomposition e.g. Fourier or Wavelet transform.

One or more orthogonal components of the obtained data may be merged for example the horizontal data components e.g. . Horizontal components Ve and Vn may be merged by any of several ways including a geometrical means like the root mean square average so that horizontal component H may be defined as H square root over V V 2 . Other methods for merging including using an arithmetic mean a Pythagorean mean or a complex Fourier transformation.

The spectra may be smoothed using a low pass filter a moving window with a fixed bandwidth or a variable bandwidth. The spectra may be averaged using an arithmetic mean or a geometric mean.

A spectral ratio is determined between transformed components . The spectral ratio may be determined with point by point spectral division for example determining spectral ratios between horizontal and vertical data. A V H spectral ratio may be determined using the vertical component with one or both horizontal components or a merged version of the horizontal components. The spectral ratio may be averaged as well using an arithmetic or geometric mean. The calculated ratio may be stored to a computer readable media in a form for display and or formed into a map. A map created with the calculated ratio may give a direct indication of the geographical extent of subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs.

While data may be acquired with multi component earthquake seismometer equipment with large dynamic range and enhanced sensitivity many different types of sensor instruments can be used with different underlying technologies and varying sensitivities. Sensor positioning during recording may vary e.g. sensors may be positioned on the ground below the surface or in a borehole. The sensor may be positioned on a tripod or rock pad. Sensors may be enclosed in a protective housing for ocean bottom placement. Wherever sensors are positioned good coupling results in better data. Recording time may vary e.g. from minutes to hours or days. In general terms longer term measurements may be helpful in areas where there is high ambient noise representative of wave energy not traversing a subsurface hydrocarbon reservoir and provide extended periods of data with fewer noise problems.

The layout of a survey may be varied e.g. measurement locations may be close together or spaced widely apart and different locations may be occupied for acquiring measurements consecutively or simultaneously. Simultaneous recording of a plurality of locations may provide for relative consistency in environmental conditions that may be helpful in ameliorating problematic or localized ambient noise not related to subsurface characteristics.

The products as defined herein may be particularly adapted for use in what are termed information handling system. An information handling system is any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities primarily designed to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest measure detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. Examples include personal computers and larger processors such as servers mainframes etc and may contain elements illustrated in .

Embodiments may be practiced with various computer or information handling system configurations that separately or in combination may include hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may be practiced with tasks performed in and over distributed computing environments that include remote processing devices linked through a communications network. Program modules operating in distributed computing environments may be located in various memory locations both local and remote.

While one processing unit is illustrated in there may be a single central processing unit CPU or a graphics processing unit GPU or both or a plurality of processing units. Computer may be a standalone computer a distributed computer or any other type of computer.

System memory includes read only memory ROM with a basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. System memory of computer further includes random access memory RAM that may include an operating system OS an application program and data .

Computer may include a disk drive to enable reading from and writing to an associated computer or machine readable medium . Computer readable media includes application programs and program data .

For example computer readable medium may include programs to process seismic data which may be stored as program data according to the methods disclosed herein. The application program associated with the computer readable medium includes at least one application interface for receiving and or processing program data . The program data may include seismic data acquired according to embodiments disclosed herein. At least one application interface may be associated with calculating a ratio of data components which may be spectral components for locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs.

The disk drive may be a hard disk drive for a hard drive e.g. magnetic disk or a drive for a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic media or an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD or other optical media.

Disk drive whether a hard disk drive magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is connected to the system bus by a disk drive interface not shown . The drive and associated computer readable media enable nonvolatile storage and retrieval for one or more application programs and data that include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Any type of computer readable media that can store data accessible by a computer including but not limited to cassettes flash memory digital video disks in all formats random access memories RAMs read only memories ROMs may be used in a computer operating environment.

The application programs may be associated with one or more application program interfaces. An application programming interface API may be an interface that a computer system library or application provides in order to allow requests for services to be made of it by other computer programs and or to allow data to be exchanged between them. An API may also be a formalized set of software calls and routines that can be referenced by an application program in order to access supporting application programs or services which programs may be accessed over a network .

APIs are provided that allow for higher level programming for displaying and mapping subsurface reservoirs. For example APIs are provided for receiving seismic data and decomposing merging smoothing and averaging the data. Moreover the APIs allow for receiving the frequency product data and storing it for display.

Data input and output devices may be connected to the processing unit through a serial interface that is coupled to the system bus. Serial interface may a universal serial bus USB . A user may enter commands or data into computer through input devices connected to serial interface such as a keyboard and pointing device mouse . Other peripheral input output devices may include without limitation a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or fax speakers wireless transducer etc. Other interfaces not shown that may be connected to bus to enable input output to computer include a parallel port or a game port. Computers often include other peripheral input output devices that may be connected with serial interface such as a machine readable media e.g. a memory stick a printer and a data sensor . A seismic sensor or seismometer for practicing embodiments disclosed herein are nonlimiting examples of data sensor . A video display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT or other type of output display device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . A map display created from spectral ratio values as disclosed herein may be displayed with video display .

A computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers. These logical connections are achieved by a communication device associated with computer . A remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network computer a workstation a client a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . However the designation of such networking environments whether LAN or WAN is often arbitrary as the functionalities may be substantially similar. These networks are common in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computer may be connected to a network through a network interface or adapter . Alternatively computer may include a modem or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the network such as the Internet. Modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial interface .

In a networked deployment computer may operate in the capacity of a server or a client user machine in server client user network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In a networked environment program modules associated with computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. The network connections schematically illustrated are for example only and other communications devices for establishing a communications link between computers may be used.

While various embodiments have been shown and described various modifications and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure herein. Accordingly it is to be understood that the present embodiments have been described by way of illustration and not limitation.

