---

title: Life raft launcher
abstract: A life raft canister is launched from a below deck doorway. A launcher is activated and pneumatically opens a below deck door, exposing the doorway. The same inflation tank inflates an elongated bladder that forces the life boat canister out of the doorway. The canister drops to the sea where the life boat is deployed from the canister. The life raft auto-inflates. As a result, a life raft is deployed from below-deck.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07681515&OS=07681515&RS=07681515
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07681515
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to ships. More particularly the invention relates to a ship board life raft handling apparatus. Most particularly the invention relates to an apparatus for launching a life raft from below deck.

U.S. naval vessels carry life boats or life rafts for the emergency evacuation of the crew. Life boats and life rafts are stored on deck and lowered to the sea by means of davits. Because a life raft is uninflated for storage it takes up less space than a life boat and is often the preferred evacuation vessel. A life raft is stored on deck in the uninflated and folded state in a life raft canister and then inflated immediately before use. A canister allows the life raft to be dropped from deck into the sea which eliminates the need for davits. The life raft is deployed from the canister when the sea painter connected to the inflation system is pulled actuating inflation valves. Included in the canister is inflation means such as an inflation gas cylinder attached to the folded life raft. The life boat canister is periodically opened and inspected for integrity of the life raft and for gas pressure in the inflation gas cylinder.

U.S. naval vessels typically carry life rafts in preference to life boats. Smaller vessels carry 6 to 15 person life rafts. Standard Navy life rafts are the 25 person Mark 7 Mk 7 and the 50 person Mark 8 Mk 8 . These life rafts are made of polyurethane coated nylon fabric and are stored with a gas inflation cylinder in a life boat canister. The canister is a hard fiber glass shell. The Mark 7 raft takes 550 cubic inches of gas to inflate from an inflation cylinder at a minimum test pressure of 4500 psi pounds per square inch . The Mark 8 raft takes 1636 cubic inches of gas to inflate from two inflation cylinders at a minimum test pressure of 3500 psi pounds per square inch . The inflation cylinders have a 15 year service life and contain carbon dioxide nitrogen or air. For human safety air is the preferred gas. Air also demonstrates less contraction than carbon dioxide in arctic temperatures.

Life raft canisters are stored on a ship deck to facilitate rapid deployment overboard in an emergency. It is statistically unlikely that a ship will sink during its useful life and require evacuation to save lives. For safety awareness the crew is periodically drilled to maintain their skills in handling a life raft. Likewise the life raft canister is periodically opened and inspected to assure that the raft is in good working order and the inflation gas cylinder is up to standard operating pressure.

Life raft drills are carried out to reduce the inherent danger and inefficiency inherent in a real evacuation. Accordingly a naval ship carries an excess of life raft capacity over the nominal crew size to accommodate damaged equipment and deviations in distribution and timing during evacuation. Life raft canisters are given priority in taking up deck space. Other essential equipment claims remaining deck space. As a result there is a conflict for the use of deck space between carrying on a ship s sailing and military functions and storage of emergency equipment.

A life raft launching apparatus is used in combination with a below deck ship door doorway and life raft canister. The life raft launching apparatus comprises the following 

 ii. The life raft canister is positioned adjacent the doorway. A pneumatic ejection bladder is positioned between a support member and the life raft canister. The bladder is normally stowed in an uninflated folded state. In the inflated state the bladder extends to a length sufficient to eject the canister overboard through the doorway 

 iii. An air supply is connected by way of an air supply valve to both the pneumatic actuator and the ejection bladder.

The life raft launching apparatus provides for below deck storage and launching of a life raft. The air supply is independent of the ship air supply and has a pressure sufficient to open a partially opened door and to launch a life raft in 20 seconds from a submerged compartment.

The invention is described with reference to the drawing. The drawing discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention and is not intended to limit the generally broad scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. The drawing is schematic and is not drawn to scale.

In the drawing is shown a below deck section of a ship indicated by main deck bulkhead and hull all support members and integral with the ship. In door is in the closed position. In door is shown in the fully open position. The open door in opens doorway which allows transport of life boat canister from compartment through doorway to overboard and the sea.

Hinge pins and are shown in doorway . The door may optionally rotate on hinges not shown . In door is hinged at the bottom and door opens on hinge pin outwardly and down. In a second alternative not shown door is hinged at the top and rotates on hinge pin outwardly and up. In a third alternative not shown door has no hinges and on opening is jettisoned overboard to the sea if not retained with a retaining strap not shown . Fourth and fifth alternatives not shown are for vertically mounted hinge pins not shown to facilitate opening door to one side or the other.

Life raft canister includes upper pod lower pod and seal mating the two pods. Also shown is sea painter which is connected to the life raft inflation system not shown . When the sea painter is pulled life raft inflation valves not shown are actuated inflating the life raft not shown . The folded life raft is contained in life raft canister .

Life raft canister is shown in in a position directly adjacent door and on opening of door directly adjacent doorway . In this position it is kept in position on cradle with chock and rigid frame . Chock is made of a flexible material so that contact with bladder during inflation will not cause a puncture. Bladder is preferably made of polyurethane coated nylon fabric that is radio frequency welded. It is very abrasion and puncture resistant with strong durable seams. This is the same material and means of construction as the life raft. The life raft canister load with an Mk 8 life raft has a weight of 583 pounds 264 kilograms .

Ejection container is shown in vertical orientation positioned in direct contact with bulkhead a support member. Ejection container contains a life raft ejection kit including pneumatic bladder inflation cylinder inflation valve hydrostatic actuator and air hoses. Ejection container may include a redundant inflation cylinder . Ejection container with contents can be removed by disconnecting electrical and pneumatic connection. The container is inspected and periodically replaced. Inspection includes inspecting the seams and materials of construction of bladder measuring inflation gas pressure in inflation cylinder and servicing inflation valve and hydrostatic actuator . The kit has a 15 year service life based on the service life of the air cylinder.

Pneumatic bladder is an elongated polyurethane coated nylon bladder. In pneumatic bladder is shown in the uninflated and folded state positioned between bulkhead and life raft canister . Bladder is not blocked by or otherwise contacted by cradle chock or rigid support frame in the uninflated stowed state or in the inflated and extended state shown in . As shown in bladder is elongated and in the inflated extended state has a length measured from bulkhead that extends beyond hull through doorway to overboard . In the uninflated state bladder is folded to a size that fits in container between bulkhead and canister .

Gas inflation cylinder is a U.S. Department of Transportation DOT approved carbon fiber wrapped aluminum composite air cylinder. It is typically similar to the gas inflation cylinder placed in canister to inflate the life raft. The Mark 7 life raft uses a 550 cubic inch 4500 psi inflation cylinder. The Mark 8 uses two 1636 cubic inch 3500 psi inflation cylinders. Both sizes of inflation cylinder have a 15 year service life the service life of ejection cassette . The ship air supply system is not used as the bladder inflation means. Ship air supply system could inflate the bladder however it would not have sufficient pressure to open the door particularly a jammed or submerged door. It is recommended that the ship air supply system not be relied on particularly during and emergency to provide inflation gas and that the life boat launcher use a dedicated gas inflation means. For this purpose the air cylinders used with the Mark 7 and Mark 8 life rafts are available in existing inventory.

Likewise it is preferred that valve be the same model of inflation valve used with the Mark 7 and Mark 8 life rafts or the equivalent quick open air valve. One valve is commercially available from CIRCOR Aerospace Aerodyne Controls Inc. 30 Haynes Court Ronkonkoma N.Y. 11779 7229. The valve can be supplemented with control means . Control means includes an initiation actuation signal for deployment sent from a control panel in the control room on the bridge a pressure transducer or a manually operated pull cable.

Pneumatically extendable arm includes the assembly sleeve and extendable rod . Extendable rod is shown in extending from sleeve . Pneumatically extendable arm is pivotably attached at a first sleeve end to rigid frame by a hinge schematically indicated by hinge pin . In this drawing rigid frame is fixedly attached to cradle . The other second end of pneumatically extendable arm is pivotably attached to door . Attachment means is a hinge shown schematically as hinge pin . It is essential that second end make contact with door . It is not essential that second end be attached to door . Hinge pin cooperates with hinge pin or hinge pin to retain door with the ship when door is in the open position. It is clear that for hinge pin to cooperate with hinge pin or hinge pin that hinge pin must be positioned parallel to them. In the alternative if it is intended to jettison door overboard after opening hinge pin hinge pin and hinge pin would all be absent.

It is clear by comparison of and that door is moved from the closed position shown in to the open position shown in . The opening of door by rotation on hinge pin to open is indication by arrow .

The motive force used to move the door is supplied by the gas in inflation cylinder . Air functions well for this purpose at temperatures in the range of 22 F. 30 C. to 160 F. 71 C. . Air does not change volume as much over the operating range as carbon dioxide does at low temperatures and provides no danger to humans should a leak occur.

Actuator opens quick open valve allowing air to pass from inflation tank into hose . Hose passes air to sleeve of the pneumatically extendable arm. The air pressure in sleeve forces extendable rod out of sleeve and fully extends the pneumatically extendable arm. As extendable rod leaves sleeve the evacuated space is filled with the high pressure air from hose .

High pressure air flows through sleeve to hose . Hose passes air to bladder . Bladder inflates with air. As a result it moves to the fully extended position. In in the extended position the elongated bladder has a length sufficient to force canister though doorway and overboard . Once in the sea the sea painter is pulled actuating the life raft inflation valve not shown to inflate the life raft not shown . The inflation of the life raft forces canister to open allowing the life raft to deploy on the surface of the sea. A fully inflated life raft is thereby deployed from below deck. The inflated Mk 8 life raft has a length of 21 feet 8 inches 6.6 meters a beam of 17 feet 5 inches 5.3 meters and a height of 8 feet 6 inches 2.6 meters .

Assembling hoses in series to pneumatically extendable arm and pneumatic bladder achieves time sequencing and is preferred. The hoses can be assembled in parallel to pneumatically extendable arm and pneumatic bladder. Such an arrangement would facilitate an equivalent arrangement such as a small extendable arm built into the door or door frame.

The life boat launcher will successfully launch at extreme ship attitudes and with ship motions. It is recommended that the inflation cylinder pressure be selected to provide launch under 5 to 15 feet of sea water should compartment become flooded. For safety it is preferred that the pressure be selected to provide launch at a depth of 15 feet of sea water or greater and also to provide sufficient pressure in the bladder to force open a partially opened or jammed door with bladder pressure. The launch depth limits of the invention are greater than the deployment depth limits of commercially available life rafts.

In the preferred embodiment inflation cylinder is either the Mark 7 type 4500 psi inflation cylinder or the Mark 8 type 3500 psi inflation cylinder in combination with the inflation valve type used with these life rafts. This combination achieves a life raft launch in 20 seconds from actuation. This is faster than presently know systems. It is preferred because the components are available in U.S. Navy inventory.

The invention is an improvement in an on deck launching system. There are no above board life raft canister davits or other life raft launching apparatus. The ship deck is clear for other essential apparatus and use. As a result the ship has a improved profile. In addition the volume taken up by the life raft inflation kit including the uninflated and folded bladder is considerably less than that of some other apparatus. And in particular the dimensions of an uninflated and folded bladder are less than that of an elongated piston or air jack apparatus and more conveniently contained in the confines of a ship.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

