---

title: Multi-entity-centric integrated search system and method
abstract: Disclosed herein is a multi-entity-centric integrated search system and method. The multi-entity-centric integrated search system includes an entity information acquisition server for receiving and analyzing a query term and determining entities and types of entities, and an integrated search result provision server for configuring an integrated search results page using results acquired from unit service calling units, such as an external API calling unit, a search engine calling unit, and an inference engine calling unit, and presenting integrated search results. The present invention is advantageous in that precise search results can be shown more rapidly, satisfaction with search results for a query term in which multiple entities coexist can be improved, the ambiguity of query terms is overcome, and an open platform capable of operating in conjunction with various types of web services is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08533174&OS=08533174&RS=08533174
owner: Korea Institute of Science and technology Information
number: 08533174
owner_city: Daejeon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20080717
---
The present invention relates in general to an integrated search system and method on a network and more particularly to a system and method for providing the optimal results of an entity centric integrated search for a query term entered by a user.

An entity is an object or a concept that may belong to a specific group such as a topic group a person group or an organization group. For example entities belonging to a person group may include Lee Sunshin Bill Gates etc. and entities belonging to a topic group may include information search semantic web etc. Meanwhile an entity type is a specific group to which entities belong and denotes topic a person an organization etc.

Recently some portal sites including Naver have provided a service for additionally showing entity related information in an upper portion of a search results page when a user enters the name of a specific person or organization as a query term. For example when the user enters Bill Gates in Naver personal information about Bill Gates is displayed in the upper portion of the search results page. However this means that personal information which has been manually configured is merely displayed but an identifier scheme is not utilized. Further when a person of the same name exists there is a limitation in overcoming the ambiguity of the search. Furthermore there is a problem in that when a query term in which multiple entities coexist is input complete entity related information is not shown.

Consequently the conventional service incompletely shows information corresponding to multiple entities in which a user is interested thus not only decreasing satisfaction with search results but also resulting in a waste of time by requiring a repeat search.

Therefore there is a need to provide a precise integrated search service which enables entities and the types thereof to be automatically recognized on the basis of an identifier scheme such as a Uniform Resource Identifier URL or an International Resource Identifier IRI and which enables integrated entity centric search results to be shown.

Accordingly the present invention has been made keeping in mind the above problems occurring in the prior art and an object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search system which can show precise search results more rapidly.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search system which can improve satisfaction with search results for a query term in which multiple entities coexist.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search system which can overcome the ambiguity of a query term.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search system which provides an open platform capable of operating in conjunction with various types of web services.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search method which can show precise search results more rapidly.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search method which can improve satisfaction with search results for a query term in which multiple entities coexist.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search method which can overcome the ambiguity of a query term.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a multi entity centric integrated search method which provides an open platform capable of operating in conjunction with various types of web services.

The above and other objects can be achieved by the present invention which will be described in detail later.

The present invention provides a multi entity centric integrated search system the system being connected through a wired wireless communication network and performing computer communication and operation processing comprising an entity information acquisition server including a query term input unit for receiving a query term a query term analysis unit for analyzing the query term and detecting combinations of entities separated by a delimiter from the query term an entity search unit for searching an entity database for the detected entities and returning existence of entities and types of the entities as resulting values an entity and entity type detection unit for providing combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database among the combinations as final search results and an entity and entity type determination unit for selecting any one from among the combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database and an integrated search result provision server including a search result calling unit for utilizing at least one unit service calling unit which acquires search result values for the selected combination a unit service result configuration unit for setting a method of arranging and outputting the search result values and an integrated search result presentation unit for outputting integrated search results including the arranged search result values.

Further the present invention provides a multi entity centric integrated search method the method making a connection through a wired wireless communication network and performing computer communication and operation processing comprising the steps of receiving a query term through a query term input unit analyzing the query term and detecting combinations of entities separated by a delimiter through a query term analysis unit searching an entity database for the detected entities and returning existence of entities and types of entities as resulting values through an entity search unit providing combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database among the combinations as final search results through an entity and entity type detection unit selecting any one from among the combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database through an entity and entity type determination unit utilizing at least one unit service calling unit which acquires search result values for the selected combination through a search result calling unit arranging and outputting the search result values through a unit service result configuration unit and outputting integrated search results including the arranged search result values through an integrated search result presentation unit.

A wired wireless communication network connection method and a computer communication and operation processing method are well known technologies and can be easily implemented by those skilled in the art. A system according to the present invention is characterized in that it includes a server for acquiring entity information and providing integrated search results after being connected to a wired wireless communication network.

The server of the present invention which is a computer performs communication with a network and performs computer operation processing. Further the server of the present invention includes components for performing various functions and respective components are operated by the processor memory or input output means of the server. A method in which the components of the server according to the present invention are operated by the processor memory or input output means of the server is well known technology which can be easily implemented by those skilled in the art.

The system according to the present invention includes an entity information acquisition server for receiving a query term analyzing the query term and determining entities and the types of entities and an integrated search result provision server for configuring an integrated search results page using results acquired from unit service calling units such as an external Application Programming Interface API calling unit a search engine calling unit and an inference engine calling unit and presenting the integrated search results.

The entity information acquisition server according to the present invention includes a query term input unit for receiving a query term a query term analysis unit for analyzing the query term and detecting combinations of entities separated by a delimiter from the query term an entity search unit for searching an entity database for the detected entities and returning the existence of entities and the types of entities as resulting values an entity and entity type detection unit for providing only combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database among the combinations as final search results and an entity and entity type determination unit for selecting any one from among the combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database.

The query term input unit receives a query term from a user through a search box. In this case the input query term may include at least one of entities stored in the previously constructed entity database or may not include entities.

The query term analysis unit detects entity candidates by analyzing the query term. Since a query term may be ambiguous all combinations of keywords separated by the delimiter such as a space a semicolon a colon or a tab are generated in consideration of the sequence of the keywords. Here the delimiter may be used in the form of a combination of the examples and is not particularly limited to the above examples. For example Web Ontology Language may be the query term Web Ontology Language or Web Ontology Language . Ultimately a total of 4 combinations that is the combination Web Ontology Language the combination Web Ontology Language the combination Web Ontology Language and the combination Web Ontology Language are generated for the query term Web Ontology Language .

The entity search unit searches the entity database for entities constituting the combinations generated by the query term analysis unit and acquires information about whether the entities exist in the entity DB and the types of entities as resulting values. The entity DB stores various entities and corresponding entity types in advance. For example when Web is stored in the entity DB topic which is the entity type of Web together with a success message indicating that the entity Web exists are returned as resulting values. When all search results for respective combinations are acquired this operation is completed.

The entity and entity type detection unit provides entities entity identifiers and entity types as final entity search results only when all of the entities included in each combination exist in the entity database. For example when of the four combinations Ontology Language and Web Ontology are not stored in the entity database and a partial search failure occurs for the second combination Web Ontology Language and the third combination Web Ontology Language only the first combination Web Ontology Language and the fourth combination Web Ontology Language but not the second and third combinations are provided as the final entity search results refer to .

The entity and entity type determination unit assigns priority for ambiguous query terms by selecting an optimal entity combination to be primarily presented to the user among successful combinations. There are four methods of determining an optimal entity combination. First there is a minimum entity number priority method of assigning priority to an entity combination having a smaller number of entities among the combinations. When this method is used the fourth entity combination Web Ontology Language is selected refer to . Second there is a maximum entity number priority method of assigning priority to an entity combination having a larger number of entities among the combinations. When this method is used the first entity combination Web Ontology Language is selected. Third there is a minimum entity type number priority method of assigning priority to an entity combination having a smaller number of entity types among the combinations. For example when an entity type combination composed of topic person and an entity type combination composed of topic topic exist the entity type combination of topic topic having a smaller number of entity types is selected if this method is used. Fourth there is a maximum entity type number priority method of assigning priority to an entity combination having a larger number of entity types among the combinations. For example when an entity type combination composed of topic person and an entity type combination composed of topic topic exist the entity type combination of topic person having a larger number of entity types is selected if this method is used. In conformity with the policy of the entity centric integrated search service one of the above methods is selected and used. In some cases an entity itself may be ambiguous. Different people with the same name are an example of such a case. When there are different people all having the name Christian Becker and having two different identifiers in an identifier scheme an optimal entity is selected in an arbitrary sequence or in the sequence of identifiers IDs refer to .

The integrated search result provision server according to the present invention includes a search result calling unit for utilizing unit service calling units which acquire search result values for the selected combination a unit service result configuration unit for setting a method of arranging and outputting the search result values and an integrated search result presentation unit for outputting integrated search results including the arranged search result values.

The unit service calling units denote independently executable program calling units such as an external API calling unit a search engine calling unit an inference engine calling unit a Knowledge Management System KMS calling unit and a Customer Relationship Management CRM system calling unit but they are not limited to these examples. Further the unit service calling units obtain search result values for the selected combination.

The search result calling unit may selectively use one or more unit service calling units. Further the search result calling unit may use the same unit service calling unit one or more times. Each of the unit service calling units calls APIs included in corresponding unit services. For example the search engine calling unit may call various APIs such as an API for calling a specific person entity an API for providing search results and an API for showing related topic as needed. Further when the selected combination is topic topic the external API calling unit may call a Naver book search open API and a Google Maps open API the search engine calling unit may call four APIs and the inference engine calling unit may call three APIs.

Further the search result calling unit can use only the unit service calling units such as the external API calling unit the search engine calling unit and the inference engine calling unit which are mapped to the combination selected by the entity and entity type determination unit. That is when the optimal entity combination is selected the search result calling unit can check predefined unit service calling units that can be used by that combination and can run the external API calling unit the search engine calling unit the inference engine calling unit etc. provided in the integrated search result provision server . For example if only the search engine calling unit and the inference engine calling unit are designated to be run when an entity combination is topic topic the API calling unit is not run.

The external API calling unit calls the API of an external site or an open API for respective entities included in the optimal entity combination selected by the entity and entity type determination unit thus acquiring corresponding search results. The API of the external site or open API is well known technology. For example when Web Ontology Language is selected as an optimal entity combination the API of the external site or open API is called for respective entities that is Web Ontology and Language . At this time it is efficient to predefine the APIs so that the APIs can be called depending on the type of entity. For example in the case of Naver Book Search API calling is permitted only for entities corresponding to topic and person entity types and in the case of Google Maps API calling is permitted only for entities corresponding to place and organization entity types.

The search engine calling unit queries a database for example a thesis index DB a patent index DB etc. which has been previously indexed in the integrated search system about respective entities included in the selected optimal entity combination and entity URIs or IRIs thus acquiring corresponding search results. The index DB itself is well known technology. Respective entities may be queried individually or collectively depending on the index DB. For example when topic and person entities are included in the optimal entity combination and a thesis index DB is a search target a topic entity is searched for in the thesis title field of the thesis index DB and a person entity is searched for in the thesis author field thereof. In this case when the index DB includes identifier scheme information such as a URI a search is performed with an entity identifier included in a search query. For example when a person named Christian Becker has a URI and both an author name and an author URI are included in the author field of the thesis index DB a search is performed with the author name and author URI included in a search query.

The inference engine calling unit configures an inference query term using respective entities and entity URIs included in the selected optimal entity combination thus acquiring corresponding search results from an inference engine. The inference query term is configured using a format such as SPARQL or RDF Data Query Language RDQL . Generally in the case of an inference engine an inference DB is configured to include a URI which is an identifier scheme and thus both an entity keyword and an entity URI must be used. The inference engine and the inference DB are well known technologies.

The unit service result configuration unit configures an integrated search results page using results acquired from the external API calling unit the search engine calling unit and the inference engine calling unit . That is it means that a method of arranging and outputting the search results acquired from respective calling units is defined so that they are displayed in a single page. For example when 5 unit service APIs are called the arrangement sequence thereof is set and a unit service API the search results of which are to be set as default values among the unit service APIs is defined. The arrangement and output method is not limited to this example and may vary in consideration of entity combinations the properties of respective unit service APIs etc.

The integrated search result presentation unit may provide various types of user convenience information such as present condition information about system status information about the selected combination information about combinations that are not selected and information about the size of search results in addition to the results configured by the unit service result configuration unit . After the integrated search result presentation unit has been run the user can view the completed results for the multi entity centric integrated search on a web page.

The multi entity centric integrated search method according to the present invention in a method of making a connection through a wired wireless communication network and performing communication and operation processing includes the step of receiving a query term through the query term input unit the step of analyzing the query term and detecting combinations of entities separated by a delimiter from the query term through the query term analysis unit the step of searching the entity database for the detected entities and returning the existence of entities and the types of entities as resulting values through the entity search unit the step of providing combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database among the combinations as final search results through the entity and entity type detection unit the step of selecting any one from among the combinations all entities of each of which exist in the entity database through the entity and entity type determination unit the step of utilizing the unit service calling units which acquire search result values for the selected combination through the search result calling unit the step of arranging and outputting the search result values through the unit service result configuration unit and the step of outputting integrated search results including the arranged search result values through the integrated search result presentation unit.

Other methods according to the present invention can be performed on the basis of the description related to the system according to the present invention.

The method according to the present invention can be implemented in the form of computer readable code in a computer readable recording medium. The computer readable recording medium is a recording device in which data readable by a computer system is stored. For example recording media may include Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM Cache memory a hard disc an optical disc a floppy disc magnetic tape etc. Further the computer readable recording medium may be distributed to computer systems connected through a network and computer readable code may be stored and executed in the computer systems in a distributed manner.

The present invention provides the integrated search system and method using an identifier scheme which stores information used to identify a specific entity using an identifier scheme and can check entity types and entities when a query term entered by the user belongs to previously stored entities so that an entity centric integrated search page is configured primarily for optimal entities belonging to an entity type combination thus providing specified search results.

In particular the present invention can actively cope with the ambiguity of query terms for example keyword combinations generated in the parsing of a query term and the ambiguity of entities for example people having the same name thus allowing the user to select precise information.

Further the present invention provides an integrated search system as an open platform in such a way that operation in conjunction with external information is possible by calling an external special service for example DBLP for personal information and Google Maps using entity information and analyzed information is provided by calling a semantic web based inference engine.

According to the present invention even if a query term entered by the user includes multiple entities as well as a single entity for example when a query term is Ontology Semantic Web two topic entities that is Ontology and Semantic Web are included the entities are precisely separated and then processed so that multi entity centric integrated search results superior to simple integrated search results are presented.

It should be understood that simple modifications and variations of the present invention can be easily implemented by those skilled in the art are included in the scope of the present invention.

The multi entity centric integrated search system and method according to the present invention are advantageous in that precise search results can be shown more rapidly satisfaction with search results for a query term in which multiple entities coexist can be improved the ambiguity of query terms is overcome and an open platform capable of operating in conjunction with various types of web services is provided.

