---

title: Two-photon absorption switch having which-path exclusion and monolithic mach-zehnder interferometer
abstract: A monolithic Mach-Zehnder Interferometer (MZI) is provided for photon beam-splitting and beam-combining with accurate super-positioning of the outgoing beams, which creates the interference. The MZI includes a complimentary pair of right-isosceles triangular prisms, and several reflector units. The triangular prisms are configurable to physically join together along associated hypotenuse surfaces that form a beam-splitter interface, thereby producing a rectangular prism having a square cross-section with four outer side surfaces. Each reflector unit forms a right-isosceles mirror that rigidly faces a corresponding surface of the four outer side surfaces of the rectangular prism. The MZI further includes a spacer disposed between the corresponding surface and the each reflector unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08149494&OS=08149494&RS=08149494
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08149494
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080806
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 993 100 with a filing date of Sep. 7 2007 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to better devices for improvements in a two photon absorptive switch and for improvements in stability for single or interconnected interferometers. In particular the invention incorporates a non critically phase matched NCPM crystal to improve the performance of a two photon absorption TPA switch. Additionally the invention incorporates monolithic optics to improve the stability of Mach Zehnder Interferometer MZI devices.

Quantum optic interference can be compromised under two slit conditions by which path information of photons within an experimental apparatus the identity of the path taken by the photon being known as complete which path information. It is desirable that an Einstein Podolsky Rosen EPR state e.g. a two photon quantum state remains free from which path information. The EPR state originated with a gedanken challenge posed to quantum mechanics in its formative years regarding completeness by A. Einstein B. Podolsky and N. Rosen in Can Quantum Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete 47 1935 777 780 to which N. Bohr responded the following year in an article of the same title in 48 1936 696 702.

Einstein had contemplated that local realism as spatial separation of two systems cannot influence one another because a mediating influence is bound by locality relativistic laws and hence there can be no causality cause and effect between the two systems. Subsequently J. S. Bell restated this assertion in On the Einstein Podolsky Rosen Paradox 1 1964 195 200 demonstrating that local realism as contemplated by Einstein yields an algebraic prediction called Bell s inequality which involves hidden variables that could potentially complete quantum mechanics. However Bell s inequality is violated by predictions of quantum mechanics. Thus local realism cannot be used to complete quantum mechanics.

Bell s theorem was further refined for experimental practicality by J. F. Clauser M. A. Horne A. Shimony and R. A. Holt in Proposed Experiment to Test Local Hidden Variable Theories 23 1969 880 884 typically referenced as CHSH. Empirical verification of Bell s inequalities being violated using entangled photons by A. Aspect P. Grangier and G. Roger in Experimental Realization of Einstein Podolsky Rosen Bohm A New Violation of Bell s Inequalities 49 1982 91 94 demonstrated the absence of hidden variables and confirmed the existence of non locality of entangled particles. These developments are summarized by A. Aspect in 398 1999 189 190.

Experimental proposals employed discrete parameters such as spin and or polarization rather than continuum quantities such as momentum. Most experiments designed to test Bell s theorem have been based on polarization of photons rather than spins of electrons. The empirical confirmation of entanglement linking properties of spatially separated particles has led to further developments that exploit this principle in quantum mechanics including advances in interferometry.

Interferometry provides the technique of using an interference pattern created by the superposition of two or more waves to diagnose the properties of the aforementioned waves. It should be noted that a photon has an associated quantum mechanical wave. The instrument used to interfere the waves together is called an interferometer. Typically a single incoming beam of light is split into two identical beams by a grating or a partial mirror. Each of these beams will travel a different route called a path before they are recombined at a second beam splitter. An accurate superposition of the two outgoing beams from the second beam splitter creates an interference pattern. The path distance traveled by each beam creates a phase difference between them. This phase difference shifts the interference pattern between initially identical waves to indicate a phase shift along the paths such a phase shift can occur due to a change in refractive index and or path length.

In particular a Mach Zehnder Interferometer MZI can be used to determine phase shift in a sample object within the path of one of two collimated beams having planar wave fronts from a coherent light source such as a laser. A collimated source beam is split by a half silvered mirror into two resulting beams a sample beam and a reference beam each is then reflected by a fully silvered mirror. The sample beam passes through an object that is inserted during one experimental run and removed during another experimental run whereas the reference beam does not have any objects inserted or removed for the experimental runs. The two beams then pass a second half silvered mirror.

Transmission through the sample medium reduces the light velocity to v c n where c is light speed in vacuum and n is the medium s index of refraction thereby causing a phase shift proportional to the difference in the medium s refractive index from the displaced medium s refractive index multiplied by the distance traveled. In the absence of the object interference profile can be determined. By contrast a sample object placed in the path of the sample beam changes the position of the interference profile enabling the resulting phase shift to be calculated.

Three wave mixing is the process involving a pump beam signal beam and idler beam. For the sake of simplicity the degenerate case is assumed throughout this disclosure. The degenerate case is when the signal and idler beam have the same angular frequency. The higher energy pump photon can generate two lower energy photons or the two lower energy photons can generate one high energy pump photon. Both processes are reversible. Thus the down conversion can be followed by an up conversion in the same crystal or by a subsequent similar crystal. The bandwidth of the pump beam is typically smaller than the bandwidths of either signal or idler beams and pulse lasers are employed for the two photon absorptive switch for this reason. The optical bandwidth of a pulse laser is generally larger than the optical bandwidth of a continuous wave cw laser.

Thus one can more easily match the signal and idler bandwidths equal to the pump bandwidth with optical bandwidth filters. This bandwidth matching is needed for a two photon absorption TPA switch. That is bandwidth matching is a requirement for the reversibility between the down conversion and up conversion processes. Filters can be placed in front of any detector or detection process to fulfill this requirement. Two particle absorption TPA represents the simultaneous absorption of two photons in order to excite a molecule from one state such as ground to a higher energy state. Generally TPA provides a non linear effect in a two stage process first to induce the crystal bonds to behave non linearly and second to comply with conservation e.g. momentum conservation or phase matching . The first stage can be understood by analogizing the crystal atoms and their bond like masses connected together by springs.

Within the linear domain stretch of the spring obeys Hooke s law. Hence for masses set in motion at some driving angular frequency the masses would continue to vibrate at the angular frequency after release of the driver. The electric field in a light wave moves past a point in a crystal at angular frequency thereby causing a charged mass to vibrate at the angular frequency . The charged masses collectively reradiate the light in the same direction and with the same vibration. This description is a classical view of light moving through a linear material. However for springs that are sufficiently stretched the masses would continue to vibrate at but could also vibrate at 2 or anharmonically. This description is a classical view of intense light moving through a non linear material. Because light is quantized into photons the particle picture would suggest that two low energy photons at angular frequency could be combined into one high energy photon at 2 . By this classical analogy particle illustration for TPA emerges.

The susceptibility is a constant of proportionality that is multiplied by the electric field strength to obtain the macroscopically averaged electric dipole of a medium if the material is in the linear domain when the dipoles behave harmonically. However the incident light can become sufficiently intense without disassociating the dipoles so that the dipoles behave anharmonically. In this domain non linear susceptibilities may appear. These susceptibilities are based upon symmetry or anti symmetry properties of the material. Typically crystals can have even order non linear susceptibilities of which the second order is dominant. Alternatively certain amorphous materials can have odd order non linear susceptibilities of which the third order is dominant. This disclosure mainly describes the second order non linearity. Generation of two low energy photons from one high energy photon for the purpose of generating a two photon quantum state often employs a non linear non centrosymmetric crystal also known as a crystal.

Quantum optics employs parametric down conversion of photons. Under Spontaneous parametric down conversion SPDC a non linear crystal splits an incoming photon into a pair of photons of lower energy called signal and idler photons whose combined energy and momentum equals those of the original photon leaving the state of the crystal unchanged under conservation laws.

Photon conversion can be referenced between three photons as the pump signal idler in a down conversion and signal idler pump in an up conversion. Phase matching dictates entanglement of the photon pair in the frequency domain. Conservation of energy h Dirac constant multiplied by angular frequency requires frequencies obey the relation and degeneracy imposes where subscripts p s and i respectively denote the pump signal and idler photons. Conservation of momentum k a.k.a. phase matching requires the momenta vectors obey the relation k k k.

SPDC creates the photon pairs at random intervals. Detection of one signal indicates presence of the other idler photon. Polarization between the signal and idler photons is the same for type I or else is perpendicular to each other for type II. SPDC enables creation of optical fields containing approximately a single photon also known as a Fock state. The Fock state has a well defined number of particles in each state. For simplicity a single mode e.g. a harmonic oscillator has a Fock state of the type n with n being an integer value meaning that there are n quanta of excitation in the mode. A ground state i.e. having no photons corresponds to type 0.

Bra ket notation was created by Paul A. M. Dirac to describe quantum states in quantum mechanics. The inner or dot product of two states and is denoted by a bracket consisting of a left part called the bra for the state and a right part called the ket for the state. In quantum mechanics the expression that represents the coefficient for the projection of onto is typically interpreted as the probability amplitude for the state to collapse into the state .

The ket can be expressed as a column vector such as for a discrete representation of the wave function or state c c c . . . with c representing complex coefficients. In infinite dimensional spaces the ket may be written in complex function notation by pre pending it with a bra such as in example x x ce. Every ket has a dual counterpart called bra written as . For example the bra corresponding to the ket above would be the row vector c c c . . . .

A given wave function or state of a particle can be represented in a discrete representation of the wave function or state by a ket as earlier shown. For two particles a separable product of kets can be made when the state of one particle does not imply the state of another particle. However for two entangled particles a separable product of kets can not be made because the state of one particle implies the state of the other particle. Bell states as described later are such non separable states.

Conventional Bell state systems yield disadvantages regarding which path information that are addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a two photon absorption TPA switch for minimizing which path information in quantum optic interference. The TPA switch includes a pulse laser first and second dichroic mirrors a down conversion crystal a reflector and a beam splitter. The down conversion crystal is disposed between the dichroic mirrors along the incident direction and is non critically phase matched with down conversion from the pump photon to signal and idler photons controlled by temperature of the crystal. The crystal can preferably be composed of one of Lithium Triborate and Ammonium Dihydrogen Phosphate.

Specifically the pulse laser emits a pump photon traveling along a photon incident direction. The first and second dichroic mirrors are disposed along the incident direction and oriented to enable photons to either pass therethrough or perpendicularly reflect to parallel corresponding photon reflection directions that are perpendicular to the incident direction. The reflector is disposed beyond the dichroic mirrors along the incident direction and opposite the pulse laser. The beam splitter is disposed along one of the reflection directions to probabilistically reflect one of the signal and idler photons to pass through the crystal.

Various exemplary embodiments also provide a monolithic Mach Zehnder Interferometer MZI for photon beam splitting the MZI includes a complimentary pair of right isosceles triangular prisms and several porro reflector units. The triangular prisms are configurable to physically join together along associated hypotenuse surfaces that form a beam splitter interface thereby producing a rectangular prism having a square cross section with four outer side surfaces. Each reflector unit forms a right isosceles mirror that rigidly faces a corresponding surface of the four outer side surfaces of the rectangular prism. The MZI can further include a spacer disposed between the corresponding surface and the each reflector unit.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

A two photon absorption TPA switch represents a switching device triggered by up conversion of two low energy photons to one high energy photon. TPA produces an apparent absorption by a three wave mixing process. The TPA switch can be improved by using an optical generator that is free of which path information. This contrasts with the conventional TPA switch that possesses which path information and employs angle tuning for the crystal. All of the which path information can be made negligible by the appropriate non linear crystal using temperature tuning as disclosed herein. This contrasts with angle tuning having geometric interpretation of the optics inside a non linear crystal resulting in a disadvantage of walk off angle. These aspects are subsequently described in further detail.

Various exemplary embodiments provide improvements in the interferometric measurements of material samples by reducing the certainty that paths can in principle be deduced thus greatly reducing which path information. The degree that which path information destroys interference correlates to the degree that the information can be known in principle and relates to reducing the loop hole aspect in experiments from attempts to create experimental conditions for several quantum foundation parameters of interest.

This disclosure comparing purely quantum effects versus classical effects relates to utility as a device. The purity of the quantum mechanical effect represents an important contribution to this technology. In device terminology various exemplary embodiments greatly increase the coupling conversion efficiency of the photons in the switch such that the likelihood of switching becomes more efficient. The overall result of these two improvements allows the efficiency of the switch to operate near 100 percent theoretical performance. Thus this increase in performance becomes very useful in quantum optical device technology. Photonic devices are very mature and lend themselves to devices that could potentially be field able in the nearer future than technologies using so called material particles.

Various exemplary embodiments operate in the realm of discrete quantum optics in which the photons are sparse and spread thinly in time and space in a fashion that can be referred to as anti bunching. For a number of photons in this condition the quantum mechanical state is said to be in a number or Fock quantum state. This Fock quantum state is much different than the continuous quantum states described as either a coherent or a squeezed quantum state.

The quantum noise distribution is related to a Heisenberg uncertainty principle that is known for material particles in momentum and position. In the continuous optical state with classical noise greatly reduced there is a residual quantum noise in the field amplitudes that must remain present. If the quantum noise is equally uniformly distributed along the sinusoid of the electro magnetic wave the quantum state can be described as being coherent or in the coherent state . If the quantum noise is reduced more in the amplitude quadrature of the sinusoid the quantum state can be described as being amplitude squeezed. For the reduction of quantum noise in the phase quadrature the quantum state can be described as being phase squeezed.

In the generation of two low energy photons from one high energy photon to generate a two photon quantum state contemporary preferences favor a non linear non centrosymmetric crystal also known as a crystal. There are currently several available crystal types having different operating domains. The crystals have non linearities describable in a tensor format generally related to the i j or k direction of the polarization of the three photons.

The degenerate angular frequency conversion condition for momentum matching e.g. in a type II degenerate angular frequency case using notation of f fast and s slow for biaxial crystals also known as phase matching 2n n n is generally not satisfied inside of the crystal and thus may be compensated for by angle tuning. For extraordinary beams the index of refraction is a function of the two angles and for biaxial crystals that are defined relative to the crystallographic axes. Although angle tuning can in principle be used to satisfy the preceding equation the beams do not stay together and cause undesired gain in which path information. In addition the walk off limits coupling among the signal and idler photons.

An angular offset denoted by walk off angle relates to the anisotropy that is seen by a particular photon. The anisotropy seen by a photon is a function of the polarization of the photon. The walk off angle for a down converted photon inside of a crystal can produce which path information for two photons that have a different polarization if the walk off angle causes that photon signal or idler to follow a different path than its counterpart twin photon idler or signal . The degree of information produced from inside of the crystal relates to the difference of the two photon paths relative to each other.

Construction of a two photon absorption TPA switch has conventionally been compromised by incidence of photon walk off. Various exemplary embodiments enable the use of temperature tuned crystals rather than angle tuned crystals. These temperature tuned crystals are also known as non critical phase matching NCPM crystals which can be fabricated to avoid walk off thus avoiding the generation of which path information. Using NCPM crystals the down converted photons propagate together enabling a greater overlap of the photons to allow for a subsequent up conversion to occur. The TPA switch operates more effectively absent walk off by facilitating the up conversion in the absorption process.

An investigation incorporating information from technical literature and using computer programming with Mathematica revealed for uniaxial crystals the possibility of type I NCPM but not type II NCPM. The literature sources included A. Yariv Wiley 1989 and V. Dmitriev G. Gurzadyan and D. Nikogosyan 3 e Springer 1999 ISBN 3540653945. For example type I NCPM was calculated for Ammonium Dihydrogen Phosphate ADP in the x y plane 90 and 45 that 0.25725 m down converts 0.5145 m at 13.3 C. ADP has a chemical composition of NHHPOand represents a negative uniaxial crystal with a 2 m point group tetragonal and a wavelength transparency range of 0.185 m to 1.45 m.

Further investigations revealed that for biaxial crystals type I and II NCPM is possible. Type I NCPM was calculated for Lithium Triborate LBO along the x axis 90 and 0 that 0.532 m down converts to 1.064 m at 148 C. Type II NCPM was calculated for LBO along the z axis 0 and 0 that 0.65 m down converts to 1.30 m at 53.2 C. LBO has a chemical composition of LiBOand represents a negative biaxial crystal with an mm2 point group orthorhombic and a wavelength transparency range of 0.155 m to 3.2 m. The point groups are designated by Hermann Mauguin notation for symmetry elements. 

Type I NCPM can be produced by ADP and possibly another crystal with the same crystallographic point group as ADP. Types I and II NCPM can be produced by LBO and possibly another crystal with the same point group as LBO. After the material has been selected the crystal can be cut and housed with proper orientation using conventional manufacturing techniques. Type II NCPM is particularly useful for the EPR like states of a and b of the Bell states whereas type I NCPM is useful for non EPR like Bell states of c and d with alternate optical configurations for their generation. The two different polarization states facilitate experimental utilization of the TPA switch using the type II NCPM because polarization optics can be used to optically manipulate the photons.

The above mentioned results of the investigation related a few of the data points for temperature tuning phase matching. A temperature range of about 15 C. to 150 C. was determined to cause phase matching with a concurrent change in the wavelengths. Also some very high and low temperature extremes can be used but these were not included in the investigation results. Very high or very low temperatures have their own experimental complications but do not necessarily deter the up or down conversion process from occurring.

A two photon wave function state can be one of the four so called Bell states for the particle spins 

The Bell state indicated by a represents the most closely optical analog of the EPR state for material two particle state in the spin singlet state. The term particle in this context refers to members of the fermion family e.g. the electron. By contrast the photon is categorized in the boson family. In this analogy instead of horizontal state of the photon the material particle state can be a spin up state measured along for example in the z axis. Similarly instead of vertical state of the photon the material particle state can be a spin down state measured along the z axis.

Hence the above correspondences enable photons to be used instead of material particles such as electrons. The Bell state indicated by b can usually be substituted for the EPR state a in experiments in which the normal down conversion state occurs between two photons that are polarization entangled. The Bell states indicated by c and d are usually not considered to have close analogies with an EPR state. Consequently an appropriately designed temperature tuned crystal can down convert into the EPR state described by the Bell state b above with greater utility because of the absence of walk off.

A further extension of the disclosure operates with two crystals without generating which path information. This can also generate the EPR states of a or b above with an increase in the efficiency. Various exemplary embodiments provide an improved method for polarization and or energy entanglement than available conventionally.

The Quantum Zeno effect represents a method to sense an object without interacting with it in the classical sense. shows a pair of diagrams to illustrate the Quantum Zeno effect which was the precursor to the Hardy s paradox. The upper diagram shows an MZI schematic in plan view. An incident photon strikes a first beam splitter which directs the photon to either continuing straight to a first mirror or perpendicular to a second mirror . The first mirror reflects the photon to a second beam splitter facing parallel to and outward from the original direction of the incident photon so that the exiting photon is parallel to the incident photon . The second mirror reflects the photon through a non blocking i.e. vacant sample region S and exiting through the second beam splitter .

The lower diagram shows the schematic with a blocking sample region S replacing the vacant region in the upper diagram . The sample region affects the photon by inducing finite probabilities of exiting in one of first and second outward directions being respectively parallel and perpendicular to incident. These probabilities differ from the influence of the vacant sample region .

In the upper diagram in the two 50 50 beam splitters and two mirrors form the MZI. With a single beam of light the interferometer produces two paths of the beam at the first beam splitter . At the second beam splitter the two beams recombine. As a result the vertical output of the second beam splitter represents the light port and the horizontal output to the right of second beam splitter represents the dark port. The light and dark ports can be tuned by adequate adjustments of the interferometer.

From a single photon viewpoint the photon can traverse both paths as defined by the photon s associated quantum mechanical wave function denoted in the literature as . The wave function passes through vacant region S in the upper diagram . For a condition in which region S is blocked as shown in the lower diagram of . In this case the wave function for the photon cannot be regarded within the interferometer as being in a superposition of states. If the photon takes the path blocked by region S the photon does not reach the second beam splitter .

However if the photon takes the path not blocked by region S the photon could reach the second beam splitter but there would not be an interference effect by the photon s associated quantum mechanical wave function. Consequently the photon can then exit either the light port in the vertical direction or the dark port in the horizontal direction . By monitoring the dark port for photons the block containing the sample in the region S can be sensed without interacting with the sample material. This type of sensing can be deduced to occur 25 of the time.

In a simple arrangement such as the Hardy s paradox two material i.e. fermion particles such as an electron and a positron can be positioned in two Mach Zehnder interferometers with an overlapping path such that if the electron and positron were to overlap they would annihilate each other. shows a diagram of an electron positron MZI. An electron e and a positron e travel rightward and upward respectively.

The electron and positron respectively reach first and second beam splitters . The overlapping MZI pair diagram also includes third and fourth beam splitters discussed subsequently. The diagram further includes first and second outer mirrors as well as first and second inner mirrors . The electron either passes through the first beam splitter to the first outer mirror or else reflects to the first inner mirror . Similarly the positron either passes through the second beam splitter to the second outer mirror or reflects to the second inner mirror .

Beyond the third and fourth beam splitters the diagram incorporates a quad series of detectors first C second C third D and fourth D . From either the first outer mirror or the first inner mirror the electron enters the third beam splitter and either passes or else reflects to one of the second C detector and the fourth D detector . From either the second outer mirror or the second inner mirror the positron enters the fourth beam splitter and either passes or else reflects to one of the first C detector and the third D detector .

The Hardy s paradox can be demonstrated essentially by two Quantum Zeno effect devices placed in such a way that the electron serves as the block for the positron and vice versa. Hardy s paradox represents the loss of constructive interference with some probability and yet the electron and positron are not destroyed in the region S . Yet loss of constructive interference seems to require electron and positron destruction. More generally Hardy s paradox examines an axiom of quantum mechanics that a quantum mechanical particle does not necessarily have a definitive location until there is a measurement. 

Hardy s paradox can be expressed as collocating the electron and the positron in space without a measurement device in place. This applies when the electron and positron are created together and should arrive at a region S simultaneously by experimental design. For experimental purposes use of non material i.e. boson particles such as photons can be selected as being more advantageous due to greater support available by the photonics industry. However this advantage can be compromised by the fact that two photons do not annihilate each other under most circumstances. Fortunately an annihilation like effect can be made using a TPA switch.

The non linear crystal in the TPA switch serves a dual role in both down conversion and its opposite up conversion. The latter can be manipulated to convert or not convert the down converted twin signal and idler photons. The two photons which are in a two photon quantum state can be induced to up convert in a well controlled manner. If the twin photons are converted to a higher energy i.e. shorter wavelength the photons of the longer wavelength can be regarded as having annihilated each other. However if one of the twin photons is lost the other photon cannot be annihilated so that a type of switching process has occurred due to the presence or absence of the other photon.

The pump photon reflects from the first reflector and passes through the filter to the second dichroic mirror . The photon proceeds to the down conversion crystal to produce with some probability the signal and idler photon pair which reflects at the first dichroic mirror . The photon pair passes through the compensating crystal and either reflects or passes through at the beam splitter to a second output . The second reflector being disposed along the incident direction opposite the laser can be translated horizontally i.e. along the incident direction shown by arrow to adjust its distance from the crystal .

Although the phase between the signal and idler beams in the TPA switch are random the sum of their phases is coherent with the pump beam. By using the pump beam with a large number of photons comprising classical electromagnetic waves one of the pump photons can be assumed to scatter into the signal and idler photons indicative of a down conversion. Because the pump beam contains many photons and can be described as being in either a classical or quantum coherent state of light the loss of a single photon does not significantly change the nature of the pump beam.

Subsequent to down conversion the same pump beam remains coherent with itself. The down converted photons form an entangled state with the phases of the two photons together being coherent with the pump beam. However each down converted photon is not coherent with the other or separately with the pump beam. Coherency means that there is a well defined phase relationship and that interference can occur.

The significance of the pump and two photon i.e. signal and idler phase relationship can be expressed as that the two photon can up convert in another crystal so as to satisfy momentum conservation. Alternatively in the case of retro reflection the two photons can be induced to up convert in the same crystal depending upon the phase shift between the two photon and the pump beam. Thus the switch can be used to up convert the signal and idler photons which are at angular frequency 2 to an angular frequency of . From an angular frequency or wavelength viewpoint the signal and idler photons are either destroyed or else not dependant upon the phase of the pump beam in the crystal i.e. switching.

In the MZI diagram of a pulse laser is used because the down conversion process creates a large bandwidth for the signal and idler associated waves and because the bandwidth of a pulse laser is larger than the bandwidth of a continuous wave laser. The filter following the first reflector is used to accommodate the three wave mixing. The pump wave at an angular frequency of passes through the first and second dichroic mirrors and . On this first pass the crystal may yield a down converted pair of photons . These photons have a frequency of 2 and reflect at the first dichroic mirror . For conditions in which the photons are not angular frequency degenerate the indices of refraction differ and the photons encounter a different optical path length inside of the crystal .

The optional compensating crystal can be used to correct for this difference in optical path length but can be omitted for a temperature tuned crystal . If one of the two photons is reflected at the 50 50 beam splitter this photon makes a second pass through the crystal . If the second reflector is adjusted such that the pump photon reflects back in the crystal with a phase such that interference between the first and second pass of the pump photon causes re mixing of the signal and idler photons to occur the single photon of photons can still pass through the crystal and then be reflected by the second dichroic mirror .

Hence this process enables a single photon of photons to pass through the crystal whereas if both photons reflect at the 50 50 beam splitter the photons would be remixed that is reconverted to a pump photon of angular frequency . Or more strictly the pair of photons because they weren t observed in the first place can be considered to have not been generated at all.

The crystal such as an NCPM crystal can be composed of a transparent material such as Lithium Triborate LBO or alternatively Ammonium Dihydrogen Phosphate ADP as described above. The temperature to which the crystal may be controlled would correspond to the down conversions for specific temperature values depending on type and material as described above. In relation to an optical version of Hardy s Paradox in the NCPM crystal may be disposed within photon paths between the mirrors and . The first and third beam splitters can be combined into a first pair to form a single monolithic MZI. The second and fourth beam splitters can also be similarly combined as a second pair . Such beam splitter combinations are described further for monolith configurations.

The retro reflection phases of the pump signal and idler may presumably be adjusted to suppress or enhance the likelihood of a pair production through the second pass. In this case the pair production of the first pass through the crystal would interfere with the pair production of the second pass through the crystal due to an uncertainty of which path information of the pump through the crystal . The setup for this interference reflected both signal and idler photons and this interference is of interest to consider for other types of photon manipulation.

There exist a number of methods to generate the Bell states which include the two varieties of EPR states. The utility of these methods have which path shortcomings using angle tuned crystals. On the other hand angle tuned crystals are less expensive and do not require temperature control. By contrast NCPM crystals may require a heater or cooler and a temperature servo loop. Also the NCPM crystals are limited in operable wavelengths because the temperature tuning requires the indices of refraction to be temperature sensitive and practical limits constrain the extent of enabling the conservation of momentum of the photons to occur within the crystal. Hence NCPM crystals are not used as often as angle tuned crystals in the industry. The penalty for using angle tuned crystals involves the possibility of introducing which path information in a quantum system and then incorporating a clever method if possible for its removal.

A simplified expression for the wave function that can be produced for the EPR states by the proposed source can be written as fe 1 where the ket components include the wave function and the horizontal and vertical states as described above. The wave function shows that a plus or minus sign can be generated by e when has the appropriate phase relation between the two crystals. The f appearing in the expression is a possible attenuation factor that might appear.

The crystals have non linearities describable in tensor notation. These non linearities are related to the i j or k direction of the polarization of the three photons typically referred to as the pump signal idler in the down conversion and signal idler pump in the up conversion. The non linear optical susceptibility tensor are described in the wave picture of light. Two optical fields can be described as follows The first optical field can be written 2 in which the j direction indicates the signal field direction and is the first angular frequency. The second optical field is 3 in which the k direction indicates the idler field direction and is the second angular frequency.

A nonlinear coupling of these two fields can yield a polarization component P at along the i direction. Formally this means 4 such that . The nonlinear susceptibility tensor dcan be expressed as 2 5 with the convention that the repeated indices i j and k are summed. The jand kcomponents of the electric field can be interchanged without any physical significance. The magnitude of the electric field vector E can be expressed using the square of the scalar E such that 2 2 2 6 where scalar components E Eand Erepresent strengths in their respective orthogonal directions.

The relationship of the P field and Ecan be expressed in matrix notation to facilitate understanding of select characteristics of non centrosymmetric crystals. This expression can be shown as 

The proper non linear susceptibility tensor should be non zero for the type II operation of the state of the TPA switch in which the signal and idler photons have different polarization states e.g. the signal being vertical and the idler being horizontal. Consequently the crystal behaves non linearly enabling switch operation. Of course the crystal may preferably appear relatively transparent at the wavelengths of the photons employed.

In addition the crystal may preferably have momentum conservation in the photon characterization or phase matching in the wave characterization of light. For example both criteria lead to the refraction index relation 2n n n for a biaxial crystal operating in a type II degenerate up or down conversion. The 2 terms refers to the high energy i.e. pump photon whereas the refers to a low energy i.e. signal or idler photon with half the energy as the high energy photon. The subscripts reference f for fast and s for slow indicate a relation for the indices of refraction as being n

The biaxial crystal is a complicated crystal in that a wave vibrating in the plane spanned by the optic axis of the crystal and the propagating beam will typically walk off from a beam in which the wave does not vibrate in the earlier described plane. A biaxial crystal has three different indices of refraction related to the three crystallographic axis. In a uniaxial crystal two of the indices of refraction are degenerate and propagate along the x and y axis whereas the index of refraction along the z axis differs and the optic axis propagates along the z axis.

For the sake of clarity the terms ordinary beam for a beam that does not walk off and extraordinary beam for a beam that does walk off are used herein. These are terms usually used for uniaxial crystal but can be applied for further description for the biaxial crystal under simplified circumstances. According to Snell s law light propagating normal to an air transparent medium interface continues in the same direction both in air and in a solid transparent medium such as glass. A beam that acts in accordance with Snell s law is termed to be ordinary for these purposes. For a beam of light that does not behave as described above the extraordinary beam in a crystal permits walk off whereas the ordinary beam in a crystal lacks the walk off behavior.

Conventionally to generate an optical version of the EPR state or as a TPA switch involves crystals that have beams which walk off from one another. Thus for the conventional arrangement the momentum conservation condition 2n n n is generally not satisfied yielding a resort to angle tuning to compensate. For extraordinary beams the index of refraction can be expressed as a function of the two angles and defined relative to the crystallographic axes.

Although angle tuning can be used to satisfy the preceding equation the beams do not stay together and partial which path information is gained. In addition the walk off inhibits coupling among the signal and idler photons. In a biaxial crystal all of the beams are generally extraordinary so these beams would be generally expected to walk off from one another. However along crystallographic axes they do not walk off and the momentum conservation condition can sometimes be satisfied by cooling or heating the crystal.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for the elimination of which path information which results from double refraction in the crystal. Generally crystals have anisotropic properties for the magnetic and electric fields. Magnetic anisotropy can be neglected as of minimum consequence. Only the electric anisotropy relates to the light beam being an electro magnetic wave is considered relevant to these applications.

Double refraction in a crystal is described by M. Born and E. Wolf 7 e Cambridge 1999 ISBN 0521642221 ch. XV 15.3.4 a pp. 790ff. One can assume that the electric fields within the crystal have the following linear anisotropic relationship between a first dielectric vector right arrow over D and a second dielectric vector right arrow over E related by a symmetric nine component tensor such that

Quoting Born and Wolf further It may be seen immediately from these formulae that right arrow over D and right arrow over E will have different directions unless right arrow over D and right arrow over E coincides in direction with one of the principal axes or the principal dielectrics are all equal in the later case the ellipsoid degenerates into a sphere. The ordinary beam is such that the principal dielectrics are all equal. For a uniaxial crystal the extra ordinary beam is such that two of the dielectrics are equal e.g. . For a biaxial crystal the dielectrics are such that none of the dielectrics are equal e.g. . Thus beam walk off for a biaxial crystal can be avoided when the beams are going along one of the principal dielectric axes.

The classical random walk as shown in as an elevation diagram has a location X as the product of an integer m multiplied by the step length L as measured from a lamp post that represents the origin. After N steps the integer m can be at a minimum of N or at a maximum of N. For m to be N all N steps must be to the left which has a small probability and likewise for m to be N all N steps must be to the right which also has a small probability. All things being equal the likelihood for m to be N or N is the same. The most likelihood for the value of m is 0 corresponding to a position at the lamp post . A repeated process of the classical random walk yields a diffusion effect.

A quantum random walk has much more interesting features. In the quantum random walk the quantum particle analogized metaphorically as a drunk does not move left or right at each step but moves in ket state vectors of left and right in each translatable direction. The quantum wave associated with the quantum particle determines the outcome of where the likelihood of the position of the particle immediately. The quantum wave if coherent for all of the steps can exhibit constructive or destructive interference so that the likelihood of the final position of the particle differs considerably from a diffusion effect.

A method for examining the quantum random walk is of high experimental interest. For example the random walk of plants may have to be quantum in nature for photo synthesis to occur at such a high efficiency. An apparatus utilizing an MZI configuration is shown in in a plan diagram . A cascading series of beam splitters expands from an origin represented by a lamp post . The cascades are represented by a series of MZI steps zeroth step first step second step and third step . Depending on the path the photon could arrive at one of a variety of positions corresponding to output ports denoted by X . Experimentally a single photon the light wave equivalent particle could be injected into one of the ports of the MZI at the lamp post . The photon would appear at one of the output ports of a third step. The number of steps is not limited by three as shown in this explanatory example but by practical construction considerations and cost.

An edge MZI can be constructed with only one input port. In practice there are two input ports with the input port not depicted would have a quantum vacuum ket state vac entering that MZI. The vacuum state is a non zero fluctuation of the quantized radiation field without a photon associated with that field. Some aspects of the quantum random walk can be studied with the twin MZI because of its two step depth structure i.e. without width of the quantum random walk. The input light wave can be a continuous quantum state such as the quantum coherent state or a quantum squeezed state.

For example illustrates a simplified twin Mach Zehnder Interferometer MZI structure in a plan diagram . Upper and lower photons enter a first beam splitter BS by respective paths R and L. Second and third beam splitters BS BS are disposed further down stream. The photons proceed to one of first and second mirrors M M and reflect to the second beam splitter BS . From there the photons continue to third and fourth mirrors M M and are reflected to the third beam splitter BS from which they exit.

The photon paths oriented diagonally downward towards the right are denoted by R R R R R and R. The photon paths oriented diagonally upward towards the right are denoted by L L L L L and L. The beam splitters have a plate configuration with a 45 angle of incidence for incoming light which can be used in a cube style beam splitter as described subsequently. By contrast the beam splitter represents a plate style beam splitter designed for normal angle of incidence incoming light.

These principles can be extended to geometries for a monolithic single piece multiple MZI. The objectives of a quantum optics experiment may be compromised if instabilities occur in the path of the photons within the experimental apparatus. These instabilities can be a result of thermal gradients and fluctuations as well as vibrations. The quantum optics experimental community has so far used active stabilization at most for keeping optical elements fixed relative to each other.

The optical elements such as mirrors lenses and beam splitters are typically held in separate opto mechanical mounts. Outside of this community researchers and device developers are migrating toward more monolithic constructions. To provide for several experiments that utilize MZI components joined to each other as shown in as a plan view diagram for a twin MZI monolith. The monolith mitigates problems associated with path instabilities.

The twin MZI pair includes spacers porro prism mirrors and triangular prisms that form the beam splitter cube with a diagonal interface from lower left to upper right corners to form three beam splitter intersections. The first photon travels along path R through the third spacer and the first prism striking the interface at the first intersection BS. Similarly the second photon travels along path L through the fourth spacer and the second prism also striking the first intersection BS.

In a more generalized description the MZI can be composed of a complimentary pair of right isosceles triangular prisms and several trombone reflector units. The triangular prisms are configurable to physically join together along associated hypotenuse surfaces that form a beam splitter interface thereby producing a rectangular prism having a square cross section with four outer side surfaces. Each reflector unit forms a right isosceles mirror that rigidly faces a corresponding surface of the four outer side surfaces of the rectangular prism. The MZI can further include a spacer disposed between the corresponding surface and the each reflector unit.

The photons can travel either horizontally along path R to the second mirror to be offset and return along path L to the second intersection BS or else vertically along path L to the first mirror and return along path R also to the second intersection BS. The photons can proceed either horizontally along path L to the third mirror to be offset and return along path R to the third intersection BS or else vertically along path R to the fourth mirror and return along path. L also to the third intersection BS. The photons can then pass either horizontally through the second prism and the second spacer to exit along path R towards a horizontal detector station or else vertically through the first prism and the first spacer to exit along path L towards a vertical detector station . The photon paths R R L and L each traverse through an access space between their respective mirrors M M M M and the prisms separated by the spacers. The access spaces provide a region in which an experimenter can dispose a sample or other object into the optical beam path.

The transparent components of the twin MZI pair can be composed of a transparent glass material. Such materials typically have low thermal expansion coefficients. Depending on the ambient conditions the twin MZI pair may be temperature stabilized passively by thermal insulation or actively in a temperature controlled chamber. Temperature adjustments involve gradual heating or cooling such components to avoid physical damage from uneven expansion.

A depth only random walk can be monolithically built by simple extensions of the monolithic twin MZI shown in diagram . The method can be expanded as shown in the as another example plan view diagram of a monolithic multi MZI although this extension can be continued yet further. Photons and travel horizontally and vertically respectively towards the monolithic multi MZI which comprises concatenated series assemblies of porro prism mirrors and associated spacers on each of the four square faces formed by the prisms that form the beam splitter interface . Through the various beam splitters the photons travel until exiting to horizontal and vertical detectors respectively.

The width part on the random walk can be accomplished by adding beam splitters in spaces to direct the beams upward as a convention for positive direction on the x axis and downward as a convention for negative direction on the x axis . In upward may be progressively exemplified by the first beam splitter upper monolith and third beam splitter . Similarly downward may be progressively exemplified by the second beam splitter lower monolith and fourth beam splitter . So above and below the center monolith monoliths can be added of the correct size which for the random walk require a smaller MZI number monolith and beam splitters to connect the monoliths optically together. This process can also be shown in as a functionally explanatory diagram .

In particular illustrates a pair of photons originating at a lamp post diagonally encountering a cascading set of prisms oriented horizontally and parallel to their respective beam splitters. The photons enter a center prism flanked by first upper and lower adjacent prisms . Beam splitters in an access space operate their corner intersections with up and down orientations respectively and communicate through trombone prisms there between. Similarly second upper and lower adjacent prisms flank their respective first adjacent prisms. Finally third upper and lower adjacent prisms flank their respective second adjacent prisms. There are some trade offs to this second method of the optical random walk that occurs when routing between upper and lower prisms but this may be acceptable for some applications.

The monolith can be incorporated into a variety of embodiments such as a the use of polarizing beam splitters with wave plates instead of 50 50 beam splitters b the use of other monolithic methods such as plates to hold the individual pieces c the use of glass or plastic molds to make the monolithic structure in whole or in parts d the beam splitters of each monolith for a full random walk experiment could be constructed with one beam splitter if it has an appropriate height or e other methods generally known to the manufacturing state of the art. Finally the quantum random walk may experimentally be served by the insertion of optical elements that shift the phase at certain locations within the monolithic structure to obtain the desired result of the experiment for matching the theoretical goal.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

