---

title: System and methods for controlling advertisements on wireless device assets
abstract: Methods, systems, apparatus and computer program products are described for controlling content presented on user-controlled wireless device assets and/or features, such as ringtone, wallpaper, wireless device memory and the like. In present aspects, a user-requested control state change is undertaken from a user-controlled state to an advertisement-control state. In this regard, once the user has conceded control of the wireless device asset over to an advertiser or advertisement provider, the advertiser is allowed to provide advertisements to the designated wireless device asset for a predetermined period of time. From the advertiser or advertisement provider perspective present aspects provide for advertisements to be presented on novel platforms. Additionally, by gaining control over the wireless device asset the advertisers or advertisement providers are assured that their advertisements will be executed for the duration of the control period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08995963&OS=08995963&RS=08995963
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08995963
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080131
---
The described aspects relate to wireless communication and more particularly to methods systems and apparatus for controlling content such as advertising content associated with wireless device assets and or features such as memory wallpaper ringtone and the like.

Wireless communication networks have been designed to deliver media content to recipients. For example wireless communication networks may comprise a broadcast or multicast system which transmit information to multiple recipients at the same time. One such example of such as system is the MediaFLO system available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In addition to delivering broadcast programming these types of media distribution systems are especially suited for delivering advertising content otherwise referred to as advertisements or ads to wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones and the like.

Conventionally advertisements have been displayed in conjunction with consumption of other media content on the wireless device. For example if the wireless device is receiving real time broadcast multicast media content such as a live sporting event broadcast advertisements may be inserted during breaks in the sporting event. In other example in which the wireless device downloads media content such as a broadcast multicast program on a regular schedule and stores the media content for subsequent consumption the media content may be configured with advertisement slots for insertion of advertisements. In addition to multimedia broadcast multicast content audio content such as music files may be broadcasted multicasted or otherwise uni casted. In such instances video advertisements may be displayed on the wireless device while the audio content is being played.

Recently advertisers and or advertisement providers have developed further methods for advertising on wireless communication devices. For example advertisers and or advertisement providers have provided users incentives for agreeing to accept and execute the advertiser s and or advertisement provider s advertisements on the wireless device. The incentives have included gratuitous wireless service reduced wireless service rates reduced cost of the wireless device and the like. Once the user has accepted the offer the advertiser s and or advertisement provider s advertisements are communicated to the device stored in memory for a predetermined period and are either exclusively played or played more frequently than any other advertisements during advertisement slots in broadcast multicasted media content. However even in this advertisement scenario the advertiser has limited assurance that their advertisements are being viewed by the user who may choose to ignore the advertisement during the time in which it is being executed or displayed.

From the user perspective the user may desire to have some control over which advertisement it receives and subsequently executes on the device. For example the user may have certain allegiance with a product or service such that advertising that particular product or service is favorable to the user. In addition the user may have current or ongoing interests in a certain product or service. For example a product or service that the user has an immediate need to purchase or purchases regularly. In this instance a user may be more willing to receive advertisements associated with such products and service because the content of the advertisements is highly relevant to the user s current needs.

Therefore advertisers and advertisement providers desire new means for providing and executing advertising on wireless devices. In this regard the desired means should not be limited to presenting advertisements in designated advertisement slots during broadcast multicast programming or any other conventional manner in which advertisements are normally presented. The desired advertisement platform should insure that the advertiser s advertisements receive maximum exposure on the wireless device and in some instances provide for advertisement exposure beyond the user of the device. In addition the desired advertisement scheme should allow for the user of the wireless device to choose which type of advertisements to receive or define and other restrictions related to the execution of the advertisement on the device.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented infra.

Thus present aspects provide systems methods and apparatus for controlling content presented on user controlled wireless device assets and or features. Wireless device assets and or features may be defined as any user controlled function or application performed by the device or any user controlled mechanism in the device capable of storing presenting or executing advertisements. For example wireless device assets may include but are not limited to ringtones display wallpaper device memory and the like. In present aspects implementing a user requested control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement control state controls content that is presented or stored in the wireless device asset. In this regard once the user has conceded control of the wireless device asset over to an advertiser or advertisement provider the advertiser is allowed to provide advertisements to the designated wireless device asset for a predetermined period of time.

Additionally present aspects may provide for the user of the wireless device to choose or otherwise designate which type of advertisements may be associated with a designated wireless device asset or feature or the amount and or type of control that the advertiser may be provided for a specific control designation.

As such present aspects provide advertisers and or advertisement providers a unique means of presenting advertisements on wireless devices such as by way of example ringtone advertisements wallpaper advertisements and the like. In addition present aspects allow the advertiser or advertisement provider to gain control over the user s asset for the predetermined period of time thus insuring that the advertisements maintain maximum exposure viewing over the duration of the control period. By controlling the asset for the designated time period the advertiser can provide time sensitive advertisements time sequenced advertisements location sensitive advertisements and the like. Additionally platforms such as ringtones and wallpapers provide for advertising exposure beyond the user and may include any one else who hears a ringtone or views the device s display.

According to one aspect a method for providing advertisements to user designated wireless device assets is defined. The method includes receiving a notification from a wireless device indicating user controlled wireless device assets having a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state and providing advertisements to the wireless device for use by the user controlled wireless device assets indicated in the notification.

The notification may optionally include advertisement parameters which may be user determined advertisement parameters which define acceptable advertisements for the designated user controlled wireless device assets. Additionally the notification may include a user determined period of time for the advertisement controlled state associated with the user controlled wireless device asset. In this regard providing advertisements to the wireless device may further include providing advertisements with an associated timestamp operable to expire after the period of time for the advertisement controlled state.

In one aspect of the method the user controlled wireless device asset is the ringtone. As such the advertisements that are provided to the wireless device when the state indicated advertisement control state may include any known or future known ringtone advertisement. For example the ringtone advertisement may include a ringtone advertisement replacement operable to be executed in place of a pre existing ringtone a ringtone insertion advertisement operable to be executed in conjunction with the pre existing ringtone or a visual advertisement that is operable to be displayed in conjunction with the execution of the pre existing ringtone.

In another aspect of the method the user controlled wireless device asset is the display wallpaper. As such the advertisements that are provided to the wireless device asset when the state indicates advertisement control state may include any known or future known wallpaper advertisement. For example the wallpaper advertisement may include a wallpaper advertisement replacement operable to be displayed on the wireless device in place of pre existing wallpaper or a wallpaper advertisement overlay that is operable to be displayed on the wireless device asset in conjunction with the pre existing wallpaper.

Further in another aspect of the method the user controlled wireless device asset is defined as a portion of the wireless device memory. As such the advertisements that are provided to the wireless device asset when the state indicates advertisement control state may include any known or future known video audio or multimedia advertisement. Collectively the advertisements provided may have a size less than or equal to the portion of the wireless device memory that has been designated for advertisement storage.

In a related aspect at least one processor is provided that is configured to provide advertisements to user controlled wireless device assets The processor includes a first module for receiving a notification from a wireless device indicating user controlled wireless device assets having a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state and a second module for providing advertisements to the wireless device for use by the designated user controlled wireless device assets indicated in the notification.

A further related aspect is provided for by a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive a notification from a wireless device indicating user controlled wireless device assets that have a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state. The medium also included at least one instruction for causing the computer to provide advertisements to the wireless device for use by the user controlled wireless device assets indicated in the notification.

Yet another related aspect is defined by an apparatus. The apparatus includes means for receiving a notification from a wireless device one or more user controlled wireless device assets having a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state and means for providing one or more advertisements to the wireless device for use by the at least one user controlled wireless device asset indicated in the notification.

A further aspect is provided for by a network device or system for providing advertisements to user controlled wireless device assets. The network device includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory. The network device further includes an advertising module stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The advertising module is operable to receiving a notification from a wireless device indicating at least one user controlled wireless device asset having a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state and is operable to provide advertisements to the wireless device for use by the at least one user controlled wireless device asset indicated in the notification.

In certain aspects of the network device the advertising module may be further operable to provide the wireless device with an asset control state change request operable to allow a user of the wireless device to implement a control state change from the user controlled state to the advertisement controlled state for one or more indicated wireless device assets. In other aspects of the network device the advertising module is further operable to receive the notification including advertisement parameters which may be user determined parameters which define acceptable advertisements for the at least one user controlled wireless device asset.

In some aspects of the network device the advertising module is further operable to receive the notification indicating that the user designated wireless device asset is a ringtone. In such aspects the ringtone may be an advertisement ringtone replacement that is operable to be executed in place of a pre existing wireless device ringtone a visual advertisement that is operable to be visually displayed on the wireless device in conjunction with the execution of the pre existing wireless device ringtone or an advertisement ringtone insertion that is operable to be periodically inserted during the execution of a wireless device ringtone.

In other aspects of the network device the advertising module is further operable to receive the notification indicating that the user designated wireless device asset is wallpaper. In such aspects the wallpaper may be an advertising wallpaper replacement that is operable to be displayed on the wireless device in place of pre existing wireless device wallpaper or a wallpaper advertisement overlay that is operable to be displayed on the wireless device in conjunction with the pre existing wireless device wallpaper.

In further aspects of the network device the advertising module is further operable to receive the notification indicating that the user designated device asset is a portion of wireless device memory. In such aspects the advertising may be any audio video and or multimedia advertising having a collective size less than or equal to the size of the portion of the wireless device memory.

Yet another aspect is defined by a method for user implemented control state change of wireless device assets. The method includes providing notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to a advertisement controlled state for one or more user designated wireless device assets and receiving in response to the notification one or more advertisement associated with the one or more wireless device assets. The method additionally includes executing the advertisements associated one or more wireless device assets for a predetermined period of time.

In some aspects the method may additionally include receiving a request to change the control state of at least one wireless device asset from the user controlled state to the advertisement controlled state prior to providing the notification. In such aspects the request may further include an offer to compensate the user for agreeing to change the control state from the user controlled state to the advertisement controlled state for one or more of the wireless device assets. The request may further provide for the user to designate advertisement parameters that define acceptable advertisements for the at least one user controlled wireless device asset. As such the notification may further provide for the user determined advertisement parameters defining acceptable advertisements for the at least one user controlled wireless device asset.

In some aspects of the method the notification that is provided may further include a user determined time period for the control state change which provides for the user to designate the period of time for which the identified asset or assets will be under advertisement control.

In one aspect of the method providing the notification further includes providing notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state for a wireless device asset defined as a ringtone. In such aspects the ringtone advertisement that is received in response to the notification may include at least one of a ringtone advertisement insertion operable to be periodically executed during a pre existing ringtone a visual advertisement operable to be displayed in conjunction with the pre existing ringtone or a ringtone advertisement replacement operable to be executed in the place of the pre existing ringtone.

In another aspect of the method providing notification further includes providing notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state for a wireless device asset defined as wallpaper. In such aspects the wallpaper advertisement that is received in response to the notification may include at least one of a wallpaper advertisement overlay operable to be displayed in conjunction with pre existing wallpaper or a wallpaper advertisement replacement operable to be displayed in the place of pre existing wallpaper.

In yet another aspect of the method providing notification further includes providing notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state for a wireless device asset defined as a portion of the wireless device memory. In such aspects the advertisements that are received in response to the notification may include at least one of a audio advertisements a video advertisements and or a multimedia advertisements such that the collect size of the advertisement is less than or equal to the size of the portion of the wireless device memory.

A related aspect is provided for by a least one processor configured to provide user designation of wireless device assets for advertisement allocation and provide advertisements to the designated assets. The processor includes a first module for providing notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state to one or more user designated wireless device assets. The processor additionally includes a second module for receiving in response to the notification one or more advertisement associated with the one or more wireless device assets and a third module for executing the advertisements associated one or more wireless device assets for a predetermined period of time.

A further related aspect is defined by a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to a advertisement controlled state to one or more user designated wireless device assets. The medium additionally includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive in response to the notification one or more advertisement associated with the one or more wireless device assets and at least one instruction for causing the computer to execute the advertisements associated one or more wireless device assets for a predetermined period of time.

Yet another related aspect is provided for by a wireless device apparatus. The apparatus includes means for providing notification of a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state to one or more user designated wireless device assets. The apparatus additionally includes means for receiving in response to the notification one or more advertisement associated with the one or more wireless device assets and means for executing the advertisements associated one or more wireless device assets for a predetermined period of time.

A wireless device configured for user control of wireless device assets defines a further aspect. The wireless device includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory. The wireless device further includes an asset control module stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The asset control module is operable to notify a network entity of a change in control state of one or more wireless device assets from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state based on user input. The wireless device further includes an advertisement storage included in the memory and operable to receive in response to the change in control state one or more advertisements associated with the one or more wireless device assets and an advertisement executor stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor wherein the asset advertisement executor is operable to execute the one or more advertisements associated with the one or more user designated wireless device assets for a predetermined period of time.

Thus present aspects provide systems methods and apparatus for controlling content presented on user controlled wireless device assets and or features such as ringtone wallpaper wireless device memory and the like. In present aspects implementing a user requested control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement control state controls content that is presented or stored in the wireless device asset. In this regard once the user has conceded control of the wireless device asset over to an advertiser or advertisement provider the advertiser is allowed to provide advertisements to the designated wireless device asset for a predetermined period of time. From the advertiser or advertisement provider perspective present aspects provide for advertisements to be presented on novel platforms. Additionally by gaining control over the wireless device asset the advertisers or advertisement providers are assured that their advertisements will be executed for the duration of the control period.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and process ors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects are described herein are in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

For purposes of aspects herein disclosed the following terms are defined. It should be noted that definition of the terms should not be construed as limiting any of the aspects herein described 

Advertisers and advertisement providers entities that desire to place and or present advertising content on a wireless device.

Media content operators entities that provide for delivery and presentation of media content on wireless devices.

Wireless device users the individual or group of individuals that are commonly in possession of the wireless device or otherwise operate the wireless device.

Wireless device assets any user controlled feature application or mechanism associated with a wireless device and capable of storing presenting or executing advertisements such as display wallpaper audio ringtones visual ringtones multimedia ringtones memory and the like.

Present aspects provide for methods systems apparatus and computer program products for user controlled content specifically advertising content presented on wireless device assets and or features. In present aspects implementing a user requested control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement control state controls content that is presented or stored in or on the wireless device asset. In this regard once the user has conceded control of the wireless device asset over to an advertiser or advertisement provider the advertiser is allowed to provide advertisements to the designated wireless device asset for a predetermined period of time.

Additionally present aspects may provide for the user of the wireless device to choose or otherwise designate which type of advertisements may be associated with a designated wireless device asset or feature or the amount and or type of control that the advertiser may be provided for a specific control designation.

As such present aspects provide advertisers and or advertisement providers a unique means of presenting advertisements on wireless devices such as by way of example ringtone advertisements wallpaper advertisements and the like. In addition present aspects allow the advertiser or advertisement provider to gain control over the user s asset for the predetermined period of time thus insuring that the advertisements maintain maximum exposure viewing over the duration of the control period.

The network entity is additionally in network communication with one or more wireless devices . The wireless devices are configured to be operable to change the control state of one or more wireless device assets from a user controlled state to an advertisement control state and to provide the network entity with notification of the state change. In response to the state change the network entity may facilitate through advertisement providers the communication of advertisements to the wireless device for the user designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset or in the instance in which the advertisements are already stored on the wireless device or otherwise accessible to the wireless device provide the necessary authorization to access and or execute the advertisements on the wireless device asset.

In some aspects the wireless device asset state change from user controlled to advertisement control may be precipitated by an asset state change request sent from network entity to the one or more wireless devices . The request may include a one or more compensation schemes applicable if the user chooses to designate one or more wireless device assets as advertisement controlled. The compensation scheme may be any known or future known compensation scheme including but not limited to gratuitous wireless network service reduced rate wireless network service reduction in the cost of the wireless device and the like. The compensation scheme serves to entice the user to change the control state of a wireless device asset from user controlled state to advertisement controlled state.

Each wireless device includes a computer platform having at least one processor and a memory . The memory includes one or more wireless device assets that are operable to either present advertisements or store advertisements. For example wireless device assets may include but are not limited to a ringtone associated with a cellular calling feature wallpaper that is displayed on a device or a portion of the device s memory capacity. Each wireless device asset may be configured to allow for a user controlled state and an advertisement controlled state . Alternatively the user controlled state and advertisement controlled state may be controlled externally to the wireless device asset for example the wireless device asset control module may be configured to operably control the state of the wireless device assets.

Conventionally wireless device assets such as ringtones wallpapers and memory space and the like are controlled by the device user. However present aspects provide for the user to choose or otherwise designate one or more wireless device assets for advertisement control. In such aspects the user relinquishes control over the asset for a predetermined period of time and the advertiser or advertisement provider gains control of the asset for that predetermined period of time. In this regard the advertiser or advertisement provider may provide and or present advertisements to the designated wireless device asset for the predetermined period of time.

The memory of wireless device additionally includes a wireless device asset control module that is operable for providing a notification to the network entity that indicates that one or more wireless device assets have undergone a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state. Additionally as previously noted the wireless device asset control module configured to operably control the state of the wireless device assets such that when a user implements a change of a wireless device asset control state from user controlled to advertisement control the change occurs at the control module level and supersedes the conventional user control of the asset.

The memory of wireless device additionally includes advertisement storage operable for receiving and storing advertisements associated with a designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset. In the instance in which the designated advertisement controlled wireless device aspect is an application or feature for presenting an advertisement such as a ringtone a wallpaper or any other audio video or multimedia application or feature the advertisement storage will receive and store advertisements that are configured for presentation on the designated asset. In the instances in which the designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset is a portion of memory the advertisement storage is configured to receive and store any type of advertisements such as audio video or multimedia advertisements up to the allotted portion of memory capacity designated for advertisements

The memory of wireless device additionally includes an advertisement executor operable to execute the advertisements associated with the designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset. For example in the instance in which the asset is a ringtone the advertisement executor is operable to play the advertisement ringtone either in place of or in conjunction with the existing user selected ringtone each time the device is called for the duration of the predetermined time period or as dictated by the advertiser and or user. In another example in which the asset is wallpaper the advertisement executor is operable to display the advertisement wallpaper either in place of or in conjunction with the existing user selected ringtone for the duration of the predetermined time period or as dictated by the advertiser and or user. In a further example in which the asset is a portion of memory the advertisement executor is operable to present advertisements as dictated by applications such as broadcast multicast programming applications or the like for the duration of the predetermined time period or as dictated by the advertiser and or user.

Each network device includes a computer platform having a processor and memory . Memory includes an advertisement module that is executable by the processor and operable to receive the notification from the wireless device indicating that one or more wireless device assets have been user designated for state control change from a user controlled state to a advertisement controlled state. In response to the receipt of the notification the advertisement module provides advertisements or otherwise grants the wireless device access or authorization to execute advertisements which are associated with the designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset.

In alternate aspects as will be discussed infra the advertisement module may be configured to be operable for sending requests to the wireless devices for changing the control state of one or more wireless device assets. In those aspects the request may include one or more compensation schemes operable to compensate the user of the device for agreeing to change the control state from user controlled state to advertisement control state.

In one aspect the database of network entity may include an advertisement storage operable to store advertisements and provide the advertisements to the wireless devices based on a notification of a control state change. In alternate aspects of the advertisements may be stored at advertisement databases associated with advertisers or advertisement provides . In such aspects the network may communicate with the advertiser or advertisement provider to retrieve advertisements from the database upon notification that a wireless device has undergone a user designated control state change.

Referring to according to one aspect depicted is a detailed block diagram representation of wireless device operable to provide for control state change of wireless device assets from user controlled to advertisement controlled. The wireless device may include any type of computerized communication device configured to receive real time streaming broadcast content such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods for receiving advertising insertion notifications and insert advertising in real time streaming media content according to the notification can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless device includes computing platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as wireless device asset control module and advertisement executor stored in the memory of wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the wireless device asset control module . Additionally in some aspects one or more of the wireless device assets may be configured as processing subsystems as opposed to a separate application residing in memory .

The computing platform additionally includes communications module operable for receiving and transmitting wireless network communications and as such transmitting notifications to the network entity indicating a change in control state. In alternate aspects the communications module may additionally be operable for receiving requests from the network entity for changing the control state of one or more assets to the advertisement controlled state.

The memory may include one or more wireless device assets that are operable to either present advertisements or store advertisements. As previously noted optionally the wireless device assets may be provided for as processing subsystems . For example wireless device assets may include but are not limited to a ringtone application asset associated with a cellular calling feature a wallpaper application asset that provides for the display of an image on the device as a background or memory allocation asset that provides for an allocated portion of the device s memory capacity. Additionally other wireless device asset applications devices or features capable of presenting or storing advertisements may also be included. Each wireless device asset may be configured to allow for a user controlled state and an advertisement controlled state . Alternatively the user controlled state and advertisement controlled state may be controlled externally to the wireless device asset for example the wireless device asset control module may be configured to operably control the state of the wireless device assets .

The memory of wireless device additionally includes a wireless device asset control module that is operable for providing a notification to the network entity that indicates that one or more wireless device assets have undergone a user implemented control state change from a user controlled state to an advertisement controlled state. Additionally as previously noted the wireless device asset control module configured to operably control the state of the wireless device assets such that when a user implements a change of a wireless device asset control state from user controlled to advertisement control the change occurs at the control module level and supersedes the conventional user control of the asset.

The notification that is sent to the network entity may additionally include advertisement parameters such as user identified parameters that place one or more restrictions on the advertisements which may be presented or stored on the designated asset. For example the parameters may designate the type of advertisements that may be presented or stored on the advertisement controlled asset. Additionally the parameters may place restrictions and or limitations on the when or where advertisements can be presented on the advertisement controlled asset. For example a user may specify that control of the asset be restricted to certain locations such as at home or within the vicinity of retail stores such that advertisements will only be presented on the asset when the device is located at the designated areas. In other example a user may designate that control of the asset be restricted to weekend or night time hours such that advertisements will only be presented on the weekends or between certain specified hours. In other aspects the advertisement parameters included in the notification may include user profile type information that assists the network in determining which type of advertisement may be of interest to the user of the wireless device in deciding which advertisements to provide to the designated advertisement controlled assets. In this instance the user profile information may be based on user inputs provided in conjunction with the designation of advertisement control for a wireless device or the user profile information may be compiled from information existing on the wireless device unbeknownst to the user of the wireless device.

The wireless device asset control module may be further operable to receive a request from the network entity for changing the control state of one or more assets from user controlled state to advertisement controlled state. The request may include a compensation scheme that serves to entice the user to agree to participate in changing the control state of the wireless device asset from user control state to advertisement control state. For example the compensation scheme may include but is not limited to wireless service time a reduction in wireless service rate wireless device applications and the like. In alternate aspects the wireless device may be pre configured at the manufacture or service provider level such that the asset control module periodically queries the user requesting advertisement control of an asset or the assets may be configured such as in the settings mechanism for each asset to provide for the changing of the control state. Additionally in these alternate aspects the device and or the asset may be configured to present the user with one or more compensation schemes along with the request for advertisement control.

In another alternate aspect the device may be configured at the point of sale of the device and or the point of service contract for the wireless service such that certain assets are designated as advertisement controlled for the life of the device or service contract or for a predetermined period of time otherwise agreed upon between the seller and the device service buyer. In this aspect the agreement to relinquish control of the asset to an advertiser at the point of sale or service contract generally provides for user compensation in the form of a decrease in the cost of the wireless device and or a decrease in wireless service rates. It should be noted that in this aspect notification to the network entity of a change in control state may be provided manually in person or like as opposed to communicating a notification across the wireless network to the network entity.

Thus in alternate aspects in which the device or assets are pre configured to provide for control state changes or the device is configured for advertisement control of wireless device assets at the point of sale or service contract it may not be necessary to provide the wireless device with wirelessly requests from the network entity requesting advertisement control of one or more assets.

The memory of wireless device additionally includes advertisement storage operable for receiving and storing advertisements associated with a designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset. In the instance in which the designated advertisement controlled wireless device aspect is an application or feature for presenting an advertisement such as a ringtone a wallpaper or any other audio video or multimedia application or feature the advertisement storage will receive and store advertisements that are configured for presentation on the designated asset. The advertisements may be configured with a timestamp that provides for an expiration date coinciding with the period of time designated for advertisement control. Occurrence of the expiration date associated with the time stamp results in the advertisement no longer being executed and or stored on the designated wireless device asset. In certain aspects occurrence of the expiration date in the time stamp may result in the advertisement being deleted from memory. Alternatively other methods may be used to insure that the advertisement controlled state of an asset expires upon lapse of the predetermined period of time. For example the wireless device asset control module may be further operable track and monitor the duration of the advertisement control period such that control is returned to the user upon lapse of the predetermined time period.

The ringtone asset may support a ringtone advertisement replacement operable for being executed in place of the pre existing ringtone. For instance a ringtone advertisement replacement may be a commonly identifiable jingle associated with a product or service which may be limited to ring tones or may include lyrics. In another example the ringtone asset may support a ringtone advertisement insertion operable to be inserted periodically during the execution of the pre existing ringtone. For instance a product or service name or catch phrase may be inserted periodically throughout the pre existing ringtone. In a further example the ringtone asset may support a displayable advertisement that is visually displayed on the device in conjunction with the pre existing ringtone. The displayable advertisement may be displayed in conjunction with a ringtone advertisement replacement or a ringtone advertisement insertion. It should also be noted that while the term ringtone is conventionally associated with tone made when a call is place to the device for purposes herein disclosed ringtone may include any other audible tone alarm or sound made by the wireless device that is capable of providing a platform for an advertisement.

A wallpaper asset may support a wallpaper advertisement replacement operable for being displayed in place of the pre existing wallpaper. In another example a wallpaper asset may support a wallpaper advertisement insertion operable to be under laid or overlaid on the pre existing wallpaper. For instance the name of a product or service may be displayed in a repeated pattern in the background of pre existing wallpaper. It should be noted that while the term wallpaper is conventionally associated with the background displayed on the device s desktop for purposes herein disclosed wallpaper may include any other application on the device that provides for the display of user designated images.

The memory asset may support any video audio and or multimedia advertisement having a collective size less than or equal to the amount of memory allocated to advertisement control.

The memory of wireless device additionally includes an advertisement executor operable to execute the advertisements associated with the designated advertisement controlled wireless device asset. For example in the instance in which the asset is a ringtone the advertisement executor is operable to play the advertisement ringtone either in place of or in conjunction with the existing user selected ringtone each time the device is called for the duration of the predetermined time period or as dictated by the advertiser and or user. In another example in which the asset is wallpaper the advertisement executor is operable to display the advertisement wallpaper either in place of or in conjunction with the existing user selected ringtone for the duration of the predetermined time period or as dictated by the advertiser and or user. In a further example in which the asset is a portion of memory the advertisement executor is operable to present advertisements as dictated by applications such as broadcast multicast programming applications or the like for the duration of the predetermined time period or as dictated by the advertiser and or user.

Additionally the advertiser executor may be operable to present advertisements based on advertiser or advertisement provider presentation criteria also known as selection criteria . The presentation criteria may dictate the frequency of presenting a specified advertisement times of day week month for presenting an advertisement wireless device location requirements for presenting an advertisement or the like. Presentation criteria may be included within the advertisements as metadata or the presentation criteria may be communicated to the wireless device separately.

Additionally wireless device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanism provides for user input to change the control state of a wireless device asset from user controlled state to advertisement controlled state and to input any parameters related to the advertisements that may be presented on the asset. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. For example one or more output mechanisms may be operable to present advertisements on the wireless device asset such as on the display speaker or the like. Additionally the output mechanisms provide an interface for choosing wireless device assets for changing state and to display requests for changing asset states.

Referring to according to another aspect a detailed block diagram is illustrated of a network device for providing advertisements to wireless device assets having an advertisement control state. The network device may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the network device may be executed entirely on the network device or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and the modules and applications executed by network device .

The network device includes computer platform that can transmit and receive data across a wired or wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of network device and the operability of the network device on a wired and or wireless network. For example processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the advertising module .

The computer platform further includes a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of network device as well as between the network device and wireless devices . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. The communication module is operable to receive notifications from wireless devices that indicate a change to advertisement control state for one or more wireless device assets asset and transmit advertisements to the wireless device for implementation with the associated asset.

The memory of network device also may include an advertisement module that is executable by the processor . The module may optionally include an advertisement control request generator also known as a state change request generator operable to generator a request for changing the state of one or more wireless device assets from the user controlled state to the advertisement control state. The request may include one or more compensation schemes that serve to entice the user into participating in the state change. Any known or future known compensation scheme may be used including but not limited to gratuitous service time service rate reduction and the like. The request may additionally include a parameter input field operable to allow the wireless device user to choose or input conditions or limitations pertaining to the state change. For example the user may choose to limit the type of advertisements that may be presented on the advertisement controlled asset the time and or place at which advertisements may be presented on the asset and the like.

The advertisement module additionally includes a notification receiver that is operable to receive notifications from the wireless devices . The notifications indicate one or more user controlled wireless device assets that have been designated for a state change from user controlled to advertisement controlled. The notification optionally may include a period of time for which the user has agreed to implement the state change. Additionally the notification may include advertisement parameters such as user identified parameters that place one or more restrictions on the advertisements that may be presented or stored on the designated asset. For example the parameters may designate the type of advertisements that may be presented or stored on the advertisement controlled asset. Additionally the parameters may place restrictions and or limitations on the when or where advertisements can be presented on the advertisement controlled asset. In other aspects the advertisement parameters included in the notification may include user profile type information that assists the network in determining which type of advertisement may be of interest to the user of the wireless device in deciding which advertisements to provide to the designated advertisement controlled assets. In this instance the user profile information may be based on user inputs provided in conjunction with the designation of advertisement control for a wireless device or the user profile information may be compiled from information existing on the wireless device unbeknownst to the user of the wireless device.

The advertisement module may additionally include an advertisement controlled wireless device asset database that logs and tracks wireless device assets that currently have been assigned advertisement control state. In addition to tracking the currently assigned assets that database also provides for tracking of any limitations or conditions placed on the advertisements that may be presented on the wireless device asset.

Additionally the advertisement module includes an advertisement selector operable to select advertisements for the designated advertisement controlled assets based on the asset identified and the limitations conditions placed on the advertisements that may be presented. Each individual asset will generally be associated with a particular type of advertisement for example wallpaper is associated with a video image advertisement ringtone is associated with an audio advertisement and the like. Once the selector has identified the advertisements the advertisements may be retrieved from a local advertisement storage another network entity based advertisement storage and or an advertiser or advertisement provider database . Once retrieved the advertisements may be communicated to the wireless devices. In alternate aspects the wireless device may already store or have access to the advertisements in which case it may not be necessary for the network device to communicate the selected advertisements.

Referring to in one aspect wireless devices comprise a cellular telephone. A cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and often can communicate packets including voice and data over wireless network . As described earlier these smart wireless devices have APIs resident on their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device. is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a cellular wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Cellular wireless network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In system network device can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate data repository for storing advertisement control wireless device asset records advertisements and the like. Network device and data repository may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Network device communicates with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately transmits messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

At Event a network entity receives a notification from the wireless device that indicates at least one user controlled wireless device asset has been designated for a state change from user controlled state to advertisement controlled state. The notification may also include a period of time for designating the asset as advertisement controlled. The notification or alternatively a separate notification communication may include parameters such as user determined parameters which may define the type of advertisements that may be associated with the asset or define criteria such as time location and the like for the type of advertisements that may be presented on the device.

At Event the network entity provides the wireless device access to advertisements for use by the assets that have been designated as advertisement controlled assets. The network entity may provide the advertisements to the wireless device at the onset of the advertisement control period or the entity may provide advertisements on an on going basis. By updating the advertisements and providing advertisements on an on going basis the advertiser is able to provide time sensitive advertisements a series of sequential advertisements or the like. Additionally if the network entity has access to or receives wireless device location or other user and or device related information the network entity can tailor the advertisements that are provided to the wireless device based on the location of the device or other user and or device related information.

At Event the wireless device provides a notification to the network entity indicating at least one user controlled wireless device asset being user designated for a control state change from the user control state to the advertisement control state. As previously noted the wireless device assets may include ringtones wallpaper an allocated portion of memory or any other feature application or device capable of presenting or storing advertisements. In addition to the notification identifying the wireless device assets the notification may identify the time period for the state change. Additionally the notification or a separate notification communication may include one or more one or more parameters related to the type of advertisements that may be provided to or presented on the wireless device asset or other limitations that the user may place on the asset such as the time of day week month etc. in which advertisements may be presented on the asset or the location of the device at which advertisements may be presented on the asset.

At Event in response to the notification the wireless device receives one or more advertisements associated with the one or more wireless device assets. The ringtone asset may support a ringtone advertisement replacement operable for being executed in place of the pre existing ringtone. In another example the ringtone asset may support a ringtone advertisement insertion operable to be inserted periodically during the execution of the pre existing ringtone. In a further example the ringtone asset may support a displayable advertisement that is visually displayed on the device in conjunction with the pre existing ringtone. A wallpaper asset may support a wallpaper advertisement replacement operable for being displayed in place of the pre existing wallpaper. In another example the wallpaper asset may support a wallpaper advertisement insertion operable to be under laid or overlaid on the pre existing wallpaper. The memory asset may support any video audio and or multimedia advertisement having a collective size less than or equal to the amount of memory allocated to advertisement control.

At Event the advertisements associated with the one or more advertisement controlled are executed on the wireless device. Execution of the advertisements may coincide with the occurrence of related wireless device asset. For example the execution of the ringtone may provide for a ringtone advertisement or the display of the wallpaper may provide for the display of the wallpaper advertisement. In the instance in which the asset is a portion of device memory execution of the stored advertisements may occur based on advertising slots occurring in applications broadcasts or the like. Additionally the execution of the advertisements may occur based on any parameters placed the presentation of the advertisements by the network entity and or the device user. For example the advertisements may only executed at specific times or when the device is located at specific locations.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus present aspects provide methods systems apparatus and computer program products are described for controlling content presented on user controlled wireless device assets and or features such as ringtone wallpaper wireless device memory and the like. In present aspects a user requested control state change is undertaken from a user controlled state to an advertisement control state. In this regard once the user has conceded control of the wireless device asset over to an advertiser or advertisement provider the advertiser is allowed to provide advertisements to the designated wireless device asset for a predetermined p period of time. From the advertiser or advertisement provider perspective present aspects provide for advertisements to be presented on novel platforms. Additionally by gaining control over the wireless device asset the advertisers or advertisement providers are assured that their advertisements will be executed for the duration of the control period.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the aspect is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

