---

title: System for beamforming acoustic buoy fields
abstract: A system using beamforming techniques in conjunction with an active or passive acoustic buoy field, where the buoy field has a plurality of buoys, each buoy employing at least one sensor attached to and extending substantially downward from that buoy so as to form a planar or conformal array. Each array buoy uses highly accurate GPS tracking devices to locate that buoy's array sensor position relative to all other buoy arrays in the known buoy field. This accurate positional data is used in conjunction with the sensor data from each depth to beamform a planar or a volumetric array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07924654&OS=07924654&RS=07924654
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07924654
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to information processing of data signals from ocean deployed acoustic buoy fields and more specifically to a system for improving the detection classification and localization of undersea vehicles such as submarines UUVs and the like using beamforming techniques on data from active and passive free floating acoustic buoys deployed in the ocean.

A field of sonar buoys is often deployed at sea in order to acoustically detect classify and localize the position of undersea vehicles. These buoys may be passive receivers or may be capable of receiving active acoustic transmissions in a bistatic or multistatic configuration. To date the usefulness of such buoy fields has been limited by the individual performance of each omnidirectional buoy.

The prior art towed hydrophone arrays described above while accurate in target detection require tow induced movement in order to remain in a known horizontal plane. Other fixed sensor array types such as planar spherical and cylindrical have known relative element spacing thereby permitting use of well known beamforming techniques for accurate target location. Stationary buoy fields on the other hand do not presently experience the benefits of such tow movement or fixed volumetric spacing.

What is needed is a way to make better use of the data collected from the multiplicity of stationary or slowly drifting acoustic sonar buoys deployed over a pre selected ocean surface area with each buoy having one or more sensors extending vertically downward from the underside of the buoy.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide improved signal processing of the received acoustic information generated by the sensors of a deployed sonar buoy field.

It is a further object to employ conformal array beamforming techniques on the received buoy field sensor signal data.

Another object is to employ vertical strings of sensors for each buoy to permit generation of spatial information that enables volumetric detection of undersea vehicles preferably modeled on the configuration of a cylindrical array.

Yet another object is to provide a system that produces more accurate undersea vehicle position information by combining highly accurate Global Positioning System GPS buoy position location information for each buoy together with line array sonar data from that buoy as input to remotely located beam forming electronics.

These objects are accomplished with the present invention by providing a system using well known beam forming techniques in conjunction with an active or passive acoustic buoy field where the buoy field has a plurality of buoys each buoy employing at least one sensor attached to and extending substantially downward from that buoy so as to form a planar or conformal array. Each array buoy uses highly accurate GPS tracking devices to locate that buoy s array sensor position relative to all other buoy arrays in the buoy field. This accurate positional data is used in conjunction with the sensor data from each depth to beamform a planar or a volumetric array.

With reference to the above described drawings wherein like numerals represent like parts throughout the several figures there is shown a system for beamforming the transmitted outputs of an array of acoustic sonar buoys in accordance with the present invention.

When operated individually each single sensor buoy produces an omnidirectional acoustic beam pattern which provides little or no directional gain. By knowing the exact location of each of the buoys in the field via the GPS device data from the entire field of buoys can be processed together as a system to form beams that increase acoustic performance significantly in a manner similar to a fixed multi sensor array. The generated beams can be steered using any means known to determine the range and direction of undersea vehicles such as submarines. The shapes of the beams can also be reconfigured by optimally turning certain buoys on or off. This beam reconfiguration technique provides the ability to null certain directions if for example there is unwanted ambient noise on a particular bearing.

In order to more closely determine the precise location of the buoys in the field it may be necessary to run well known optimization algorithms using the GPS device determined positions as the starting points for the optimization. Examples of such algorithms are the Method of Feasible Directions or the Broydon Fletcher Goldfarb Shanno BFGS Variable Metric Method although other optimization algorithms may be used without deviating from the teaching of the present invention. In addition the buoys in the field are time synched to keep their clocks within 1 10 of a wavelength e.g. 0.2 msec for a 500 Hz wavelength for beamforming accuracy purposes.

Any standard volumetric array beamforming technique can be used the only adjustments required being those needed to account for the initial buoy separation lateral longitudinal movement drift of each buoy supported string in the ocean and the vertical motion of the entire string due to wave produced surface motion. Any small GPS device like those manufactured by Garmin for example is placed inside a buoy to accurately determine sensor position. GPS devices are now manufactured for use in wrist watches and bicycles in addition to automobile navigation systems so present devices are very small highly accurate and widely available. A specialized GPS device having higher accuracy can be used for this as well.

While the present invention can beamform multiple elements on multiple buoys in any volumetric configuration the preferred embodiment uses a method similar to the beamforming of a cylindrical array. That is when beamforming a cylindrical hull array on a ship the number of acoustic sensors and the exact position of each of the sensors needed to form acoustic beams is known. The present invention treats the buoy string sensors like the sensors of a cylindrical array and utilizes a technique that beamforms the output of each of the individual buoy sensors in order to form acoustic beams from a distributed field of floating buoys. The invention has separate free floating line arrays which can be very widely spaced initially or even repositioned with position accurately determined using GPS devices. Having the ability to form acoustic beams using combinations of the individual sensors in each of the buoy arrays further improves USW capabilities.

The primary advantage of the present invention is that it provides significant performance gains over existing sonar buoy field target detection methods. The ability to form beams using planar or volumetric arrays of sensors has been used for decades but not for buoy fields deployed in the ocean due to difficulty in accurately knowing the relative real time spacing of the buoys in the field and each sensor s vertical position. The present invention significantly improves the detection classification and localization of undersea vehicles using sonar buoy fields.

What has thus been described is a system using well known beamforming techniques in conjunction with an active or passive acoustic buoy field where the buoy field has a plurality of buoys each buoy employing at least one sensor attached to and extending substantially downward from that buoy so as to form a planar or conformal array. Each array buoy uses highly accurate GPS tracking devices to locate that buoy s array sensor position relative to all other buoy arrays in the known buoy field. This accurate positional data is used in conjunction with the sensor data from each depth to beamform a planar or a volumetric array.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention may become apparent in light of the above teachings. For example the number of buoys the horizontal spacing between buoys and the number of and vertical spacing between sensors attached to a buoy can be varied for the particular application. In some cases a sparse buoy field which provides wide beams may be desired for simple searches. In other cases a dense buoy field with numerous closely spaced vertical hydrophones thereby providing narrow beams may be desired for precise localization. GPS or RF position location devices may be used to localize although GPS devices are preferred. The signal processing for the present sonar buoy field beamforming implementation could take place on a buoy that is placed among the other buoys in the field on board a ship that is involved in the operation of the deployed buoys aboard aircraft or at a land based facility connected via a satellite link.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

