---

title: Extended user profile
abstract: A method of extending user profile. A user specific data related to an application is received and stored for integration with a user profile. A template for the application is received and stored. The template tailors the user specific data based on aesthetic preferences of the user to generate a tailored user specific data. The user profile is extended based on the user specific data for the application and the template for the application. The user profile including the tailored user specific data may be provided for rendering. Local information, e.g., geographical location, of the user may be determined to tailor the user profile based on the local information. The user specific data and/or the template may be in a markup language format. Update to the user specific data and/or template may be pushed when available.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08073847&OS=08073847&RS=08073847
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08073847
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
The widespread use and increasing development of the Internet has allowed exchanges of information in ways previously not possible. The Internet has allowed social networks to now be made available online. Social networks enable users to publish and share information e.g. their name school metropolitan groups events activities interests etc. with the people they care about and to interact with other users online. For example commercial social networking sites such as MySpace Facebook Orkut etc. are now a common place for online users especially among the younger generation.

In general users of social network sites can publish and customize their profiles based on the capabilities and limitations of the social network site. For example users can publish information by filling in specific boxes provided by the social network site. Furthermore users can rearrange how the entered information is being published and rendered thereby tailoring the published profile to their personal preferences given the capabilities of the commercial social networking sites.

Unfortunately users are unable to customize their profile beyond the limitations provided by the social network site. For example users that wish to publish their latest result e.g. their score and level completed in playing a set top console game device such as for example X Box PlayStation Nintendo etc. are unable to do so if the social network does not provide an input mean for entering and publishing that information. In other words applications to be rendered and published by a given social network site is limited to the specific implementation of the site and is non extendable. As such it is difficult to aggregate additional information beyond what is offered by social network sites to become part of the user profile.

Publishing to a typical user profile requires the user to manually enter the information to be published as part of the user profile. For example a user is required to manually enter information about a given application to be published as part of the user profile e.g. level and score achieved in a particular game. In other words there is no automatic mean of capturing information related to a given application to be published and rendered by the social network site except by requiring the user to manually enter that information.

Moreover a user is required to manually enter updated information in order to reflect new developments in order to update the user profile. For example the user is required to manually enter new results for a given game e.g. completed level 4 with the score of 613 in order to update a previously accomplished result e.g. completed level 3 with the score of 200. In other words updating user profile is performed manually as new information becomes available.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A need has arisen to extend and aggregate additional information to become part of a user profile beyond what is being offered by the social network site. Moreover a need has arisen to automatically capture information for publication and rendition by the social network as part of a user profile. Furthermore a need has arisen to automatically update a user profile on a social network. Described herein is technology for among other things extending user profiles on a social network as well as automatically capturing user specific data for various applications and automatically updating a user profile. Therefore users can now extend their profile to applications beyond that being supported by social networks. Moreover users are now relieved from manually entering various information including updating various user specific data as they become available.

In one embodiment a user may wish to include their performance from playing a particular console game as part of the user profile. A user specific data e.g. the user s performance such as level and score completed related to an application e.g. a console game may be received and stored. A template used for the application may also be sent by the application e.g. console video game and received by the server. The template may be used to tailor the user specific data in accordance with aesthetic preferences of the user. It is appreciated that while user specific data may change often the template is relatively static and does not change unless the user changes the template.

The user specific data may be tailored based on the template and added as a portion of the user s extended profile. Thus the user profile is extended to include the user selected application. It is appreciated that according to one embodiment the user specific data may be further tailored based on the geographical location of the user. For example if the user is in Spain the user profile or a portion of the user profile comprising the user specific data related to the application may be tailored and rendered in Spanish. It is appreciated that in one embodiment the user may be authenticated prior to extending the user profile. It is appreciated that updated user specific data and or template may be pushed by the application when they become available.

As such techniques described herein provide a way to extend a user profile in a social network. Moreover the user specific information may be automatically supplied for rendition as part of the user profile. Furthermore the user specific information may be automatically updated and tailored based on the aesthetic preferences and or geographical location of the user. As a result quality of service and page load time may also be improved.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the claimed subject matter examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to these embodiments. On the contrary the claimed subject matter is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter as defined by the claims. Furthermore in the detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However it will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of procedures logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer or digital system memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure logic block process etc. is herein and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these physical manipulations take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system or similar electronic computing device. For reasons of convenience and with reference to common usage these signals are referred to as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like with reference to the claimed subject matter.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these terms are to be interpreted as referencing physical manipulations and quantities and are merely convenient labels and are to be interpreted further in view of terms commonly used in the art. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion herein it is understood that throughout discussions of the present embodiment discussions utilizing terms such as determining or outputting or transmitting or recording or locating or storing or displaying or receiving or recognizing or utilizing or generating or providing or accessing or checking or notifying or delivering or sending or extending or storing or rendering or authenticating or tailoring or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data. The data is represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories and is transformed into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

A need has arisen to extend and aggregate additional information to become part of a user profile beyond what is being offered by the social network site. Moreover a need has arisen to automatically capture information for publication and rendition by the social network as part of a user profile. Furthermore a need has arisen to automatically update a user profile on a social network. Described herein is technology for among other things extending user profile on a social network as well as automatically capturing user specific data for various applications and automatically updating a user profile. Therefore users can now extend their profile to applications beyond that being supported by social networks. Moreover users are now relieved from manually entering various information including updating various user specific data as they become available.

In one embodiment a user specific data that may be related to an application is received. For example the user s performance in playing a console game may be sent from the console video game and received by a server. The user performance may be the level completed and the score for instance. In this example the user may wish to include the performance in playing the console game as part of the user profile. As such the received user specific data is operable for rendition and integration within the user profile. It is appreciated that the user specific data may be received in a markup language format e.g. extensible markup language XML . The user specific data may be stored.

A template used for the application may also be sent by the application e.g. console video game and received by the server. The template may be used to tailor the user specific data in accordance with aesthetic preferences of the user. It is appreciated that while user specific data may change often the template is relatively static and does not change unless the user changes the template. In other words the template may be generic and common to many of the users of the application. The template may be stored for subsequent use.

The user specific data may be tailored based on the template and added as a portion of the user s extended profile. Thus the user profile is extended to include the user selected application. The tailored user specific data may be provided for rendition as a portion of the user profile thereby extending the user profile. It is appreciated that a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD may render the tailored user specific data.

It is appreciated that according to one embodiment the user specific data may be further tailored based on the geographical location of the user. For example if the user is in Spain the user profile or a portion of the user profile comprising the user specific data related to the application may be tailored and rendered in Spanish. Similarly if the user is in an English speaking country the user profile or a portion of the user profile comprising the user specific data related to the application may be tailored and rendered in English.

In one embodiment the user may be authenticated prior to extending the user profile. It is appreciated that updated user specific data and or template may be pushed by the application when they become available. For example once the user completes a new level of a console game the new user specific data may be pushed onto the social network such that the user profile can be updated. It is appreciated that prior to updating the user profile the identity of the user may be confirmed by authenticating the user. The template may not change as often as the user specific data. As such the template may be stored and be used to tailor the updated user specific data once the new user specific data is pushed. However it is appreciated that once a new template is received it may replace the old template such that user specific data whether new or old can be tailored and rendered based on the new template in accordance with user aesthetic preferences.

As such techniques described herein provide a way for the extending a user profile in a social network. Moreover the user specific information may be automatically supplied for rendition as part of the user profile. Furthermore the user specific information may be automatically updated and tailored based on the aesthetic preferences and or geographical location of the user.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing embodiments includes a general purpose computing system environment such as computing system environment . Computing system environment may include but is not limited to servers desktop computers laptops tablet PCs mobile devices and smartphones. In a basic configuration computing system environment typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing system environment memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

System memory may include among other things Operating System OS application s and content manager . Content manager may facilitate management of content that is public limited access and private e.g. a website a family photo album financial documents achievements in a video game etc. Content manager may further include user content receiver which handles receiving and storing of user specific data for a given application e.g. user performance in a console video game. The console video game may be X Box PlayStation Nintendo etc. Moreover the application may include any application e.g. a photo manager news update etc. Content manager may also receive and store templates for various applications in an application template receiver . The application template receiver stores templates that may be a generic template for an application that tailors a user specific content based on aesthetic preferences of a user. The content manager may further include a localization handler that handles information regarding a geographical location of a user e.g. when a user resides in Spain the content is published in Spanish etc. A profile handler may be used to tailor user specific data for rendering as part of a user profile. The tailored user specific data may be based on the information stored in the user content receiver application template receiver and the localization handler .

Additionally computing system environment may also have additional features functionality. For example computing system environment may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and nonremovable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing system environment . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing system environment .

Computing system environment may also contain communications connection s that allow it to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Communications connection s may allow computing system environment to communication over various networks types including but not limited to Bluetooth Ethernet Wi fi Infrared Data Association IrDA Local area networks LAN Wireless Local area networks WLAN wide area networks WAN such as the internet serial and universal serial bus USB . It is appreciated the various network types that communication connection s connect to may run a plurality of network protocols including but not limited to transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP real time transport protocol RTP real time transport control protocol RTCP file transfer protocol FTP and hypertext transfer protocol HTTP .

Computing system environment may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device remote control etc. Output device s such as a display speakers etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The following discussion sets forth details of the present technology systems for network communication management. illustrates example components used by various embodiments of the present technology. System includes components or modules that in various embodiments are carried out by a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. The computer readable and computer executable instructions reside for example in data storage features such as computer usable memory removable storage and or non removable storage of .

According to one embodiment system receives a user specific data e.g. score and level completed by an application e.g. X Box video game. It is appreciated that there may be an optional call to an application provider when the application is installed by the user to start the publishing model. Based on the optional call various information e.g. specific user user preference on information to be published token that can be used for API and geographical location may be obtained. It is further appreciated that various exemplary embodiments refer to X Box video game as an example of an application. However embodiments should not be construed as limited to X Box video game since X Box video game is provided as an example. For example other applications may include other video console games e.g. PlayStation Nintendo photo manager etc. and or non video console game applications such as a photo manager news update manager etc. Thus the use of X Box and or video game console is exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments presented herein.

Moreover the system may receive a template that tailors the user specific data based on aesthetic preferences of the user. As such when the portion of the user profile that relates to the application is being rendered the user specific data may be tailored based on the template. The template may be generic among many users using the same application. The user specific data may further be tailored based on the geographical location of the user e.g. portion of the user profile related to the application rendered in Spanish if the user resides in Spain. It is appreciated that user specific data and or template may be in a markup language format e.g. extensible markup language XML hypertext markup language HTML extensible HTML XHTML etc.

In one embodiment the API handler is operable to handle various API calls. For example the API handler may handle an API call to update a user specific data. It is appreciated that the API call may be received when an update for a user specific data is available. For example the user specific data may be pushed by the application e.g. X Box game to the system . It is appreciated that pushing data may be implemented using various methods e.g. representational state transfer REST style programmatic API call. The API handler may similarly handle an API call to update a template for tailoring the user specific data in a user profile based on aesthetic preferences of a user.

In one embodiment when the API handler receives an API call to update a user specific data the authentication module may authenticate the user and or the application for which the user specific data is being received. For example when the API call is received the authentication module may authenticate the user to confirm the identity of the user and that the user has consented to update the user specific data as part of the user profile. Similarly the authentication module may authenticate the application to ensure that the format of the user specific data is conforming to the API standard.

After authentication the user content receiver module may receive and store the newly supplied user specific data. The profile handler may use the user specific data and template to render the information as part of the user profile. For example the profile handler may tailor newly supplied user specific data received from the API handler and or from the user content receiver module by using a template received from the application template module . Thus the tailored user specific data may be rendered as part of the user profile. In other words the profile handler may use the template from the application template module to tailor the received user specific data and to integrate the tailored user specific data as part of the user profile.

It is appreciated that the template may have been stored prior to the receipt of the updated user specific data. However it is appreciated that an update for the template may be received in a similar manner to that of the user specific data. The template may also be stored in the application template module for subsequent use. It is appreciated that the profile handler module may send a response back to the application using the API handler module . The response may be a signal that the profile has been extended and or updated successfully and is ready for rendition.

It is appreciated that the user specific data may change frequently in comparison to the template. For example each time a user launches an application e.g. X Box video game the user specific data may change e.g. completion of a new stage and new score. In comparison the template may be generic to many users utilizing the same application. It is further appreciated that the template may be stored for later use in rendering the user profile as long as the template remains unchanged.

It is appreciated that the user specific data may further be tailored based on a geographical location of the user. For example the localization handler module may allow strings texts and or images from the template and or user specific data to be localized based on the geographical location of the user e.g. locality. In one exemplary embodiment when a user resides in Spain the user specific data and or the template comprise a set of name and value pairs that define the resource name and the localized resource value identifying Spain as the geographical location. Thus Spanish may be used to render the application comprising the user specific data and the template as part of the user profile.

The following discussion sets forth in detail the operations of the present technology for content management. With reference to flowcharts and each illustrate example blocks used by various embodiments of the present technology. Flowcharts and include processes that in various embodiments are carried out by a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. The computer readable and computer executable instructions reside for example in data storage features such as computer usable memory removable storage and or non removable storage of .

Referring now to a flowchart of an exemplary process for extending user profile in accordance with an embodiment is shown. A user wishes to publish user specific data related to an application as part of the user profile. For example the user may wish to publish recently accomplished stage and corresponding scores for an X Box video game. At step the user may be authenticated to ensure that the information being supplied by the application e.g. X Box video game is based on a request from the user and that the user has consented to publish that information as part of the user profile.

Upon authenticating the user at step a user specific data for the application may be received. For example user specific data may be the level and score accomplished by the user in an X Box video game. It is appreciated that the user specific data may be in a markup language format e.g. extensible markup language XML hypertext markup language HTML extensible HTML XHTML etc. It is further appreciated that the user specific data received may be sent from the application and received by the API handler module . The user specific data may be stored at the user content receiver module for later use. As such the user specific data may also be received from the user content receiver module .

At step a template for the user specific data related to the application is received. The template may be a generic template that tailors the user specific data based on the aesthetic preferences of the user. In one embodiment the template may be a generic template for multiple users whereas the user specific data is specific to each user. The template for example may tailor the user specific data based on a specific font background image background color etc. in order to tailor the user specific data to have a certain look and feel. The template may be in a markup language format e.g. extensible markup language XML hypertext markup language HTML extensible HTML XHTML etc. It is appreciated that the template may be received by the API handler module and stored at the application template module for subsequent use. Thus the template may also be received from the application module after the template is being stored.

It is appreciated that even though step is described to follow step the order of the flow may be different. For example first at step a template for the user specific data related to the application may be received and then at step a user specific data for the application may be received. As such the order of which the flow diagram is described should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments.

At step geographical location of the user may be determined. For example the localization handler module may allow strings texts and or images from the template and or user specific data to be localized based on the geographical location of the user. In one exemplary embodiment when a user resides in Spain the user specific data and or the template comprise a set of name and value pairs that define the resource name and the localized resource value identifying Spain as the geographical location. Thus Spanish may be used to render a portion of the user profile that includes the application comprising the user specific data and the template.

At step the received information may be stored. For example the user specific data may be stored in the user content receiver module and the template if an updated one may be stored in the application template module . As such an updated template may replace the original template.

At step the user profile may be extended based on the received information. For example the user profile may now comprise the application e.g. X Box video game along with user specific data e.g. most recent level completed and corresponding score. It is appreciated that in one embodiment the profile handler may use the template to tailor the received user specific data based on aesthetic preferences of the user. It is further appreciated that the profile handler may further tailor the user specific data based on the locale of the user. The profile handler may send a response back to the application e.g. X Box video game notifying the application that the user profile has been successfully updated and or extended and that the user profile is ready for rendition.

At step the extended user profile that comprises the application is provided for rendition. For example the extended user profile may be provided by the profile handler to the user for rendering. At step the extended user profile may be optionally rendered on a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD .

Update data may be pushed to the system when an update to a user specific data and or template is available. For example when an updated user specific data is available the user specific data may be pushed by using a representational state transfer REST style programmatic API call. When an update is available at step the identity of the user may be authenticated. For example the authentication ensures that the user has consented and has authorized the user profile to be update with the application pushing the user specific content. It is appreciated that authentication may also include authenticating the application and conformity of the data being pushed.

When the user is authenticated at step the updated information may be received to update data. For example when the update information is for the user specific data the updated user specific data replaces the old user specific data. The update information may then be stored for subsequent use. It is appreciated that the template may be updated in a similar fashion.

Referring now to a flowchart of an exemplary process for updating a user profile in accordance with an embodiment is shown. At step the system may receive an API call to update a user specific data. For example the API call may be received when an update to user specific data is available upon which the application making the API call pushes the update to the system . The user specific data may be pushed using a representational state transfer REST style programmatic API call.

At step the user is authenticated in order to verify that the API call is from an authorized application and an authorized user. At step the service API may be accessed when the user is authenticated. As such at step the user specific data may be generated and updated by using the service API e.g. metadata and user setting is provided and the user specific data is received and the old user specific data is updated.

At step the updated user specific data may be stored for subsequent use and rendition as part of the user profile. It is appreciated that the user specific data may be in a markup language format e.g. extensible markup language XML hypertext markup language HTML extensible HTML XHTML etc. Optionally at step the API handler may respond back to the application making the API call that the received information has been used to update the user specific data and that the new information is available for rendition as part of the user profile.

The updated information e.g. updated user specific data and a template from the application template module may be used by the profile handler in order to tailor the updated user specific data based on aesthetic preferences of the user. At step the updated user specific data that is tailored may be provided for rendition as part of the user profile. It is appreciated that the profile handler may also use the localization handler module to localize the user specific data that is tailored according to geographical location of the user. For example if the user resides in Italy the user specific data that is tailored may also be tailored for rendition in Italian. At step the updated user profile may be optionally rendered e.g. using an LCD display.

It is appreciated that a similar flow diagram may be used in order to update the template. The updated template may subsequently be stored in the application template module for later use.

Referring now to an exemplary illustration of data flow for updating a user profile in accordance with an embodiment is shown. At step an API call is received from an application e.g. X Box video game. The API call may be received when an update for a user specific data is available e.g. new level and score completed. The API call may be a representational state transfer REST style programmatic API call that pushes the user specific data. It is appreciated that the API call may comprise a REST API uniform resource locator URL parameters and delegation tokens. The API front end receives the API call and sends a query to check API access .

An application authentication platform receives the query to check API access . The application authentication platform may send a query to access the metadata and user setting e.g. application identification user caller identification CID from a storage . In response to the query the storage provides metadata and user settings e.g. application metadata user specific data etc. Based on the received metadata and the user settings the application authentication platform decides whether access should be granted to the application making the API call. The access result is communicated to the API front end .

If access is granted the API front end transmits the API call query to the API back end . For example the API call may be a call service API and comprise of API URL parameters user specific data template locale of the user application identification user CID passport unique identifier PUID etc. Thus the API back end may send a query to update information e.g. user specific data by storing the update information in the storage . The result of the update that includes the user specific data e.g. updated result may be sent back to the API back end . The API back end may send an API response to the API front end . The API front end may optionally respond back to the application by sending an API call response . The API call response may be an indication that the information e.g. user specific data has been updated and that the updated user profile is available for rendition as part of the user profile.

It is appreciated that once the information e.g. user specific data has been updated the profile handler may update the profile as described above. Thus the updated profile is provided for rendition and may be rendered using a display. In one embodiment the updated user specific data is tailored based on the template to provide the look and feel of the application in accordance with aesthetic preferences of the user. It is appreciated that the tailored information may also be tailored based on the locale of the user as presented and discussed above.

It is appreciated that the user specific information template etc. may be in markup language format e.g. extensible markup language XML hypertext markup language HTML extensible HTML XHTML etc. As such the profile handler may resolve the markup language into HTML and present the resolved information to the viewing browser as a portion of the user profile.

As a result a user profile may be extended in a social network site. Moreover the user specific information may be automatically supplied for rendition as part of the user profile. Furthermore the user specific information may be automatically updated and tailored based on the aesthetic preferences and or geographical location of the user.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

