---

title: Automatically showing additional relevant search results based on user feedback
abstract: This disclosure describes various exemplary application user interfaces, methods, and computer program products for information retrieval or search technology by automatically showing additional relevant search results based on user feedback. The search describes receiving a submitted query from a user, identifying multiple query search results in a relationship to the submitted query, and presenting the multiple query search results in a single structured presentation with a thumbs-up icon, a thumbs-down icon, or an unmarked status to enhance the user experience. Furthermore, the search results illustrate the relationships between each of the multiple query search results and the submitted query in a textual description.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554768&OS=08554768&RS=08554768
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08554768
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081125
---
The subject matter relates generally to search technology and more specifically to improving quality and quantity of search results by providing additional relevant search results.

Search technology generally provides a great deal of information to individuals who can connect to the Internet or search a database or a desktop with a computing device. For example a keyword search can instantly return thousands of web pages or large result sets that may be relevant or not relevant to the search terms.

There is room for improvement in how to provide good search results and in how to best display the results especially when the results are numerous. The problem with search technology is managing the large result sets in the user interface with the number of search results shown per page and providing controls to navigate among these search result pages. The typical page display of search results disproportionately penalizes search results that are not shown on the first page. Another problem with search technology is showing a continuous scrolling list of all of the search results. This scrolling display makes it impractical to manage and to scroll through the large search result sets. Thus the huge amount of information is too numerous for individuals to navigate through the large search result sets.

Various techniques are desired to display the query search results since the practical display capability of a computer monitor is limited. In particular a display of lengthy query search results may not be organized or organized well. Furthermore the manner of presentations of query search results may affect the search tasks in not being very efficient or useful to the individuals.

Another problem with the large number of query search results is that potentially relevant results may not be displayed reducing a chance of addressing the specific information requests of the user. Therefore it is desirable to find ways to generate additional relevant search results and how to effectively display the results for the query search.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In view of the above this disclosure describes various exemplary application programming interfaces methods and computer program products for information retrieval or search technology by automatically showing additional relevant search results based on user feedback. The search describes receiving a submitted query from a user identifying multiple query search results in a relationship to the submitted query and presenting the multiple query search results in a single structured presentation with a thumbs up icon a thumbs down icon or an unmarked status to enhance the user experience. Furthermore the search results illustrate the relationships between each of the multiple query search results and the submitted query in a textual description. At least one or more additional relevant search results are displayed after a user clicks on the thumbs up icon or the thumbs down icon. Thus this disclosure provides additional relevant query search results based on feedback of the user and removes or hides query search results that are not relevant based on response received from the user such as clicks on the thumb icons.

This disclosure is directed to various exemplary application programming user interfaces methods and computer program products for search technology by providing additional relevant query search results based on user response. The process performs simultaneous search across multiple data sources and workflow support for multi query investigations. Investigations refer to a group of related queries to retrieve relevant information. Thus the disclosure includes several mechanisms for supporting the investigations.

The different mechanisms include triaging the results adding tags working with a browser pivoting and saving a file. Triaging occurs when the user determines whether the query search result are relevant or not relevant based on a subjective indication. For example the user clicks on the thumbs up icon indicating the search result is relevant and or the thumbs down icon indicating the query search result is not relevant. Other mechanisms include adding tags to create categories meaningful for tasks viewing a result in the web browser searching for related items by right clicking and saving the item to a file.

In another aspect the process describes receiving entry of a submitted query by a user and identifying each of multiple query search results in a relationship to the submitted query. The user interface displays the multiple query search results in a single structured presentation with a thumbs up button a thumbs down button or an unmarked status. Next the process describes the relationships between the submitted query and each of the multiple query search results in a textual description. The user interface displays at least one or more additional relevant search results after the user clicks on the thumbs up icon or the thumbs down icon as long as the feature is enabled. Thus this disclosure provides additional relevant query search results while removing or hiding from view the query search results that are not relevant. A benefit to the user is that the additional relevant query search results are based on receiving input from the user.

The described process for providing additional relevant query search results during information retrieval improves efficiency and convenience for the user. Furthermore the process for providing additional relevant query search results described minimizes irrelevancy among the query search results. By way of example and not limitation the additional relevant query search results method described herein may be applied to many contexts and environments. The process for providing additional relevant query search results may be implemented to support information retrieval for documents or web searching on enterprise networks with databases on content websites on content blogs with various types of services using search engines and the like.

The computing device may include a monitor to display the query search results for information retrieval. The monitor displays a single structured presentation of the query search results and the additional relevant query search results.

The system may provide the additional relevant query search results as for example but not limited to a tool a method a solver software an application program a service technology resources which include access to the internet and the like. Here providing additional relevant query search results is implemented as an application program referred to as additional relevant query search results application program . For convenience the term additional relevant query search results application program will be used interchangeably with the terms additional query search results application program application program and showing more results.

Implementation of the additional relevant query search results application program includes receiving entry of a submitted query by the user . The initial query search may be accomplished using any of various well known searching techniques. Next the application program identifies a relationship between the submitted query and each of the multiple query search results.

A sparkline a type of information graphics is used to illustrate the quality of the multiple query search results. For example the sparkline displays trends and variations associated with the query search results which is shown as a series of flags. An example of the sparkline is shown in .

The application program presents the multiple query search results in a single structured presentation with a thumbs up button a thumbs down button or an unmarked status. The listing of each search result item allows the user to indicate if the query search results are subjectively relevant to the user s search query. For example an indication of subjective relevance is provided by selecting a thumbs up button as relevant and a thumbs down button as not relevant.

The application program helps improve information retrieval for a query search by further expanding the query search results available to the user. In particular additional query search results are automatically shown based on subjective feedback from the user as long as the feature is enabled. In some implementations the feature is available to disable the function of automatically showing more research results. The application program includes a checkbox feature for disabling the at least one or more additional search results function for a multiple search environment. If the checkbox is not marked the application program will not show additional search results after the user indicates a preference on the thumbs up button and or the thumbs down button. The users may prefer to not indicate subjective relevance and not have to sift through additional search results.

The items in the query search results are ordered based on an occurrence of the multiple queries during the search. The items listed in the top ten order are items most often found during the query search. A title of each query search results is shown along with a textual description describing the relationships of each of the query search results relative to the submitted query term. The title of an item is shown in bold and large font initially. Once the item has been read viewed or scanned the title of the item is no longer shown in bold font but becomes small font.

When the user clicks on the thumbs up button the application program will show additional relevant query search results as long as the feature is enabled. When the user clicks on the thumbs down button the application program will either delete the item in the query search results or hide the item from view but not delete the item as this item is considered to be not relevant by the user. Then the application program shows additional relevant query search results as long as the feature is enabled. As a result of providing additional relevant search results there are at least one or more unmarked search results visible to the user. In an implementation when the user clicks on the thumbs up or thumbs down button the application program will reveal three subsequent search results that are unmarked and visible to the user.

Illustrated in is an overview exemplary flowchart of a process for implementing the additional relevant query search application program . The application program provides a benefit to users by finding additional relevant query results based on user input. For ease of understanding the method is delineated as separate steps represented as independent blocks in . However these separately delineated steps should not be construed as necessarily order dependent in their performance. The order in which the process is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described process blocks maybe be combined in any order to implement the method or an alternate method. Moreover it is also possible that one or more of the provided steps will be omitted.

The flowchart for the process provides an example of the application program of . The process performs simultaneous search across multiple data sources and workflow support for multi query investigations. Starting at block is receiving a query submitted from a user. The query and keywords are terms to indicate an entry submitted by the user in order to perform a search or information retrieval. In certain implementations there are functions in the application program that allows the user to indicate a date for the search to combine the search and the like. For example the query search may be conducted for a specific timeline.

At block the process allows users to select data sources for the search tasks. For example there may be multiple checkboxes shown including but not limited to a list of search engines services databases check in history source code local files email and the like for the application program to search to locate relevant query results. The application program has checkboxes for the user to mark which data sources to include in the search and offers options to add more search providers. The search providers that may be added include but are not limited to Code COOP and the kind Indexing Service Live Search Product Studio SharePoint Team Foundation Server Text File Lines Windows Desktop Search and the like.

At block the application program reports investigations for the query search results. Investigations occur when the search activities require multiple queries to retrieve relevant information. Thus the related queries are commonly referred to as investigations. The application program supports different mechanisms for investigations. A discussion of the various mechanisms supporting investigations follow.

Block illustrates triage query search results in the application program . Triage is a process of finding documents that may be relevant to a topic or a search discarding irrelevant documents or search results and retaining the relevant documents or search results. As part of the triage the search results are marked as relevant to the investigation if the user clicks on the thumbs up button. The user may use the filter drop down to view the relevant results. In particular based on response of the thumbs up button or the thumbs down button the application program provides additional relevant search results. Furthermore although the top ten results are shown by default the user may right click on a query s column header to choose Get More Results.

For example the application program discards irrelevant search results from the search query set when the user clicks on the thumbs down button. In another implementation the application program hides the irrelevant search results from view but the results are not deleted. If a later search finds the same search result and the search result was discarded the search result remains discarded. However the user may view the discarded search result item using a filter drop down.

Shown in block is using tags. In particular the application program may include a column of checkboxes that enables the user to categorize and to mark an item in the multiple query search results. By marking the item s in the query search results this helps the user with workflow management or to create categories meaningful to a task.

Block indicates how the thumbs up or thumbs down icons may be integrated into the toolbar of the browser such as Internet Explorer. This integration allows the user to view an item in the multiple query search results in a separate browser without interrupting a search context.

In block pivot occurs. For example some query search results allow the user to search for related items. When the user right clicks on a search result that is a web page and then chooses Search for Pages That Link To This One a new query is created that adds the related web pages to the investigation.

Shown in block is saving to file which is another benefit for the user with the application program . In this implementation the user may save the investigation to a file. The saved file enables the user to open the items in the file for later use move the file to another computing device or share the file with another user.

Block represents the user deciding which of the different thumb icons to click on based on the subjective indication of the user. The user will evaluate whether the item in the query search results is relevant or not relevant to the query submitted. For example if the user clicks on the Thumbs Up button shown along the left side this indicates the query search result item is relevant. The user clicking on the Thumb Up button will mark the item as relevant to the submitted query as represented by block .

Returning to block the user may click on the Thumbs Down icon following the process along the right side of block . For example the user may click on the Thumbs Down button indicating the query search result item is not relevant. The user clicks on the Thumb Down button will mark the item as not relevant to the submitted query as represented by block .

Once the user has clicked on the thumbs icon and the items are marked as relevant or not relevant the process flow moves to a decision block representing Automatically Show More Results . In this implementation there is a box to be checked for Automatically Show More Results . If the box is unchecked this indicates the functionality is not turned on indicating a NO for Automatically Show More Results block shown along the right side of the decision block .

When the feature is not turned on the process moves to the right side and travels up along the line to Update Sparkline as represented by block . As mentioned Sparkline provides feedback per search about the quality of the query search results. Sparkline shows feedback for the thumbs up icon the thumbs down icon the unmarked or unread status of each item in the query search results. The results of the query search may be displayed and categorized in a top ten results based on an occurrence among the multiple queries. Thus Update Sparkline provides updated information about the quality of the search results. The process then continues to block waiting for user input. Blocks and may be repeated at any suitable interval to update Sparkline to provide the latest feedback on the quality of the search results once the user unchecks Automatically Show More Results . The process maintains a minimum number of visible unmarked search results.

Returning to decision block if the Automatically Show More Results block is checked the process flow will follow the YES line to decision block . When the feature is enabled additional query search results are displayed to the user.

Initially the query search results are grouped as triaged or untriaged. In one implementation the item is marked as triaged when the user selects the item for viewing. Untriaged is a default position for the item s in the query search results. The item remains as untriaged until the user clicks on the thumbs up button or the thumbs down button. One of the advances with the application program is to keep a minimum number of untriaged results.

If the investigation changes in any significant way for each search with the additional relevant query search results feature turned on not disabled the application program counts the number of untriaged visible items as represented by block . The process flow may respond with YES when the number of unmarked items are greater than three. From block the process flow travels along the right side to Update Sparkline . Blocks and may be repeated at any suitable interval to update Sparkline to provide the latest feedback on the quality of the search results if the number of unmarked items are greater than three.

In an implementation if the number of untriaged visible items is less than a certain threshold the process may increase the number of visible items for the search based on the difference. There are several ways to determine the certain threshold may be predetermined determined by the user at the time of entering the query or determined by the user at the time of receiving the query results and the like. In an implementation the application program has about a minimum number of three untriage results. The minimum number of untriaged results may range from at least one to about five untriage results.

Returning to block if the number of unmarked items is less than three the process flow will take a NO branch to reveal one more item as represented by block . From there the process flow may continue to block representing the number of unmarked items which are greater than 3. Blocks and may be repeated at any suitable interval to determine the number of unmarked items and reveal one more item for the search query. While specific examples of query results order are described herein it should be understood that any other known order and search techniques could additionally or alternatively be used.

Shown at is an entry block for receiving a query submitted from a user with an option for dates selected. The query and keywords are terms to indicate the entry submitted by the user in order to perform the search or information retrieval. The user interface allows the user to indicate a date for the search to combine the search and the like. For example the query search may be conducted for a specific timeline.

At are the different data sources the user may select for the search. For example there may be multiple checkboxes for data sources shown including but not limited to a list of search engines services databases check in history source code local files email and the like for the application program to search to locate relevant query results. The application program has checkboxes for the user to mark which data sources to include in the search and offers options to add more search providers. The search providers that may be added include but are not limited to Code COOP and the kind Indexing Service Live Search Product Studio SharePoint Team Foundation Server Text File Lines Windows Desktop Search and the like.

Shown at are the thumbs up icon thumbs down icon that the user would click to indicate whether the item is relevant or not relevant to the submitted query. The title of each query search results is shown along with a textual description describing the relationships of each of the query search results relative to the submitted query term. The title of an item is shown in bold and large font initially. Once the item has been read viewed or scanned the title of the item is no longer shown in bold font but becomes small font.

At is an item that is unmarked. For the unmarked item these items are shown for each item the type of data the title of the item a summary of the item a location for the item and showing of linked items.

At is the Overview display which shows the sparkline a type of information graphics used to illustrate the quality of the multiple query search results. For example the sparkline displays trends and variations associated with the query search results which is shown as a series of flags.

The user interface illustrates a field entitled Showing indicating that 13 results out of 20 600 results are shown. Also shown is a field entitled Show where the user may select to show 10 more 50 more or 500 more query search results.

Block illustrates the Automatically show more results checkbox. This feature is for providing additional relevant query search terms. The benefit to the user is the feature may be easily turned on by checking the box or turned off by unchecking the box. When the user clicks on the thumbs up button the application program will show additional relevant query search results. When the user clicks on the thumbs down button the application program will either delete the item in the query search results or hide the item from view but not delete the item as this item is considered to be not relevant by the user. If the feature is checked the application program shows additional relevant query search results in response to the thumbs icon response.

Memory may store programs of instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The system may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable medium may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the communication devices.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail may include an operating system one or more additional query search application program for implementing all or a part of the additional relevant query search method. For example the system illustrates architecture of these components residing on one system or one server. Alternatively these components may reside in multiple other locations servers or systems. For instance all of the components may exist on a client side. Furthermore two or more of the illustrated components may combine to form a single component at a single location.

In one implementation the memory includes the additional relevant query search application program including a user interface module a data management module an automatic module and a search module . The user interface displays to the user a graphical user interface for the query based search including an interface prompting the user to enter a keyword or a query. The user interface also displays the query search results to the user. The data management module stores and manages storage of information and the like and may communicate with one or more local and or remote databases or services. The automatic module allows the process to operate without human intervention such as automatically showing more relevant query search results once the user provides feedback by clicking on the thumbs icons. The search module interacts with the user interface module to perform search functions such as performing textual searches using conventional text search methodologies.

Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage medium. Additional types of computer storage medium that may be present include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by the computing device .

The system may also contain communications connection s that allow processor to communicate with servers the user terminals and or other devices on a network. Communications connection s is an example of communication medium. Communication medium typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures and program modules. By way of example and not limitation communication medium includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable medium as used herein includes both storage medium and communication medium.

The system may also include input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. and output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. The system may include a database hosted on the processor . All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The subject matter described above can be implemented in hardware or software or in both hardware and software. Although embodiments of click through log mining for ads have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of exemplary implementations of click through log mining for ads. For example the methodological acts need not be performed in the order or combinations described herein and may be performed in any combination of one or more acts.

