---

title: Retention management for instant messages
abstract: Disclosed are methods and systems of retaining instant message content related to usage of one or more instant message applications subject to obligations of retention. A user request to access the one or more instant message applications results in requesting a instant message master log on credential from the user and mapping the IM master log on credential of the user with instant message application specific log on credentials of the user associated with at least one of the IM applications to give a centralized and controlled access to the user who may be subject to obligations for retention of IM communications. An IM session of at least one of the one or more instant message applications may also be opened according to IM application settings rules associated with the IM master log on of the user. The IM communication generated during the session is stored based on the instant message retention rule associated with the IM master log on of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07975013&OS=07975013&RS=07975013
owner: SAP AG
number: 07975013
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20081111
---
The invention generally relates to systems and methods for electronic discovery within a business environment and more particularly to methods and systems for creating facilitating or otherwise managing legal processes involving business objects documents and other transactional data.

Instant messaging IMs have become an increasingly popular method of communication in the business world. IM is a method of real time communication based on typed text that is typically transmitted via computers connected over a network such as the Internet. Some typical examples of IM applications include Instant Messenger by AOL Corporation Yahoo Messenger by Yahoo Corporation and Windows Messenger by Microsoft Corporation. This type of real time communication has the benefit of being efficient and easy to use. The amount of data that instant message IM applications create every year is staggering more than five billion messages a day aggregating to 750 GB or 274 terabytes a year.

IMs are free form and when a user closes an IM dialogue box at the end of a conversation the content generally disappears without being stored for later retrieval. However with the advent of e discovery and amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure FRCP many electronically stored documents including IMs have become subject to discovery in litigation. The IMs pose a particularly unique challenge to the litigation world. Content in IM communication is becoming increasingly relevant for litigation. Accordingly this type of electronic information has to be taken into account during legal discovery process. In fact some industries are creating regulatory rulings that mandate which communications must be stored and for how long. For example the financial services industry has been recently directed to retain all communications with clients for a period of three years. Securities and Exchange Commission SEC Rule 17a 4 outlines which records must be preserved by certain exchange members brokers and dealers. The SEC has expanded this rule to include new communication technologies such as e mail the internet and IMs. Efficient mechanisms are needed to allow consideration of IMs for document retention management and e discovery processes in order to comply with discovery requests in litigation.

One of the technological barriers for the litigator is that business users typically use a number of different types of IM applications and each IM application has a different setting for archiving conversations which presents a challenge for uniformly complying with e discovery process. Currently there is no method and system to provide a solution to the above listed challenges.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems of identifying and retaining IM content related to a usage of one or more IM applications subject to retention obligations.

In one aspect the method involves receiving a user request to access the one or more IM applications. In response to such a request requesting a IM master log on credential from the user and mapping the IM master log on credential of the user with application specific log on credentials of the user associated with at least one of the IM applications. Based on the master log on a further aspect of the invention involves opening an IM session of at least one of the IM applications according to the IM application settings rules retrieving at least one IM retention rule and storing IM content of the IM session based on IM retention rules.

In yet another aspect the invention further provides retention management for recorded IM content stored in a central repository. The recorded IM content is stored for a retention time according to legal hold or guidelines or otherwise improving compliance during e discovery processes for instance. The recorded IM content is deleted from the central repository on expiration of the retention time.

Additional features and advantages will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrated embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Legal hold can be described as a process by which an organization must preserve and prepare for production certain of types of communication when litigation is anticipated or confirmed. A major factor driving the need for a complete and highly capable Legal Hold LH solution was a result of substantive changes to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedures FRCP . FRCP addresses the discovery of electronically stored information ESI also known as e discovery including electronic communication e.g. email . The amendments were precipitated by persistent legal arguments and tactics related to the production of ESI such as the cost and difficulty of producing such ESI and claims that such ESI was missing deleted or otherwise inaccessible when it really was not the case. These changes have been effective from Dec. 1 2006 and require organizations to hold all electronic records until each legal matter is formally settled even if an organization only reasonably anticipates litigation. FRCP also accelerates several timelines that have an enormous impact on e discovery requirements that can only be addressed with technology due to the volumes and complexities involved.

The legal hold operates at the intersection of litigation and corporate retention practices and it has emerged as an almost obligatory component of a company s response to notice or reasonable anticipation of litigation. The basis of this obligation is the common law duty against spoliation that is the duty to avoid the loss of destruction of or failure to preserve information that may be relevant to pending or potential proceedings.

Electronic legal discovery e discovery refers to a process in which electronic data is located searched and secured with the intent of using it as evidence in a law suit. Digital data is well suited to investigation because it can be electronically searched whereas paper documents must be analyzed manually. In the process of e discovery data of all types can serve as evidence. This can include text images calendar files databases spreadsheets audio files animation web sites and computer programs. New rules for e discovery of documents in civil cases came into effect in December 2006. Failure to comply with these rules can result in significant penalties for companies legal experts and executives. For instance the rules require that when two companies are involved in civil litigation they must meet within 30 days of the filing of the law suit to decide how to handle electronic data. The parties must agree on which records are to be shared and in which electronic format as well as on a definition for accessible data.

Instant communication such as Electronic mail e mail and instant messaging can be an especially valuable source of evidence in civil or criminal litigation. Instant messaging in particular has become a popular way for business users to communicate with their colleagues with their business entity or even out side their business entity. Accordingly some such communication may be subject to e discovery. IM conversations however are typically only stored in volatile memory and disappear when the user exits the application but some or all of such conversations may have to be saved. Saving all such conversation would simply be too burdensome not to mention too risky because it would be over inclusive. Many of the users may also maintain more than one IM account with many different IM applications. So controlling access to such applications in order to determine whether the user and their particular use context comes under some obligation to retain the IM conversation can be simplified by centralizing the access for instance.

In one embodiment system administrators can register several IM applications e.g. and to the IM content storage and retention framework using the IM content storage and retention framework user interface . Preferably the IM application vendors implement API functions to support the integration of the one or more IM applications into the IM content storage and retention framework API .

The IM content storage and retention framework provides a mechanism for central user authentication for several IM applications e.g. and . Typical IM application users have several IM applications they use and it is possible that they have different user names and passwords credentials for each. Users may also have several different IM accounts with the same IM application. By providing a central user authentication the proposed IM content storage and retention framework ensures that the rules related to storage and retention of IM content is centrally controlled and enforced. When the user tries to log on to any of the IM applications preferably they are directed to an IM master log screen to gain access the IM framework first. The user logs into the IM framework through an IM master log on manager . In this manner user access to IM applications is provided through the IM content storage and retention framework and according to the safeguards that it assures. The IM master log on credentials are preferably entered via the IM content storage and retention framework user interface for IM content storage and retention framework .

The IM master log on credentials uniquely identifies the user so that the retention rules for storage and retention of IM content can be unambiguously assigned to the user. The IM master log on credentials are retrieved from a master database . On receiving the IM master log on credentials from the user e.g. via the IM master log on manager the IM content storage and retention framework API maps the IM master log on credentials with the one or more IM application specific log on credentials associated with the user. Thus upon completion of such central user authentication if the user makes a selection of any of the IM applications the user is now granted access to the IM application of his or her choice but now within the context of the IM content storage and retention framework . Since the user has now been unambiguously identified rules for storage and retention of IM communications content pertaining to the user are then retrieved from the retention rules database in the rule repository via the rule repository API .

In addition to the storage and retention rules the IM application settings rules for a particular IM session can also be customized to control define and limit the communication to be in compliance with organizational preferences. The IM application settings are retrieved from an IM application settings rules database in the rule repository via the rule repository API . In an embodiment the instant message application settings rules associated with the instant message master log on of the user includes rules for customizing the instantiation of the instant message application.

In another embodiment customizing the instantiation of the instant message application comprises enabling or disabling one or more features of the instant message application. For example if the IM master log on is that of a common user the IM features are enabled may be limited to changing font size color of text in the IM application starting a voice conversation option and changing status option. In another embodiment customizing the IM application settings rules may involve disabling IM application settings according to the master log on. For example if the IM master log on is that of a common user the instant IM message features disabled may include starting a video conversation altering default settings of the IM application preventing IM conversations with selected users or organizations and so on. The IM application settings are preferably defined based on factors such as an organizational policy for legal hold guidelines during litigation and the identity of the user the identity of the other party the user is in communication with and so on. The rules preferably are defined by an administrator via rule user interface for instance.

Based on the retention rules within the rule repository the retention rule API enables the user to trigger a function to record IM content associated with the IM master log on. The retention rules in the rule retention repository may include but are not limited to rule to record all IM communication by default record IM communication with a particular communication partner record IM communication with selected customers store all log files store log file with communication partners external to the organization and store log files with selected customers. Preferably the rule user interface is used to enter the rules to be stored in the rule repository including the retention rules and the IM application settings rules.

Based on the retention rules stored in the retention rule database the repository manager transfers the recorded IM content to a central repository using an IM repository API . The recorded IM content is stored in the recorded IM content database within the central repository . Preferably the IM content transferred to the central repository is in a computer readable format supporting the e discovery process. The repository manager also contains information regarding relevant document repositories and the corresponding connectors to these repositories that are utilized by the IM content storage and retention framework .

An example of a retention rule for IM correspondence in a organization may be rule to analyses send and receive dates of the IM content rule to specify keywords wherein instant message content containing the specified keywords will be scanned.

The system of and many of the functions described with reference to the system components are merely exemplary in nature. It will be understood that many of components can be combined or further divided which usually are implementation choices. For instance the IM content storage and retention framework user interface for general access to the IM content storage and retention framework and the rule user interface for entering rules can be implemented as separate components as depicted or combined as one main user interface that can show different windows based on user choices for instance.

The retention rules maybe stored in a repository such as the rule repository at . Exemplary rules may include rules for recording all IM contents for selected users by default recording all message contents of IM sessions with all partners outside a company recording contents of IM sessions with specified partners recording contents of IM sessions related to selected subjects and the like. The rule repository preferably comprises a retention rules database for storing the rules which can be accessed by rule repository API .

The IM retention rules are applied to the recorded IM content stored in the recorded IM content database of the central repository to manage the retention of IM content according to the policy chosen by the users. The IM communication retention monitor monitors the recorded IM content stored within the recorded IM content database of the central repository . Once the IM content being monitored meets the retention time criteria then the IM communication retention monitor deletes the recorded IM content through the IM repository API . Deleting the recorded IM content that meets the criteria need not be the only way to process such content. Such content could also be data compressed and archived for later retrieval. Moreover retention time need not be the only criteria. For instance if when the obligation to retain IM communication content related to specific subject or specific users or specific partners or some combination thereof no longer exists then preferably the IM content will be deleted.

At in response to user request the IM master log on credential is requested from the user. Whether the user is directed to the IM master log on can be dependent on the user s identity. For instance only the users identified as being subject to legal hold rules could be directed in this manner. Once the IM master log on is accepted then the user is unambiguously identified and as a result IM application settings rules and IM retention rules that apply to the user are also unambiguously identified. At process block the IM master log on credential of the user is mapped with the IM application specific log on credentials associated with the user. At process block at least one IM retention rule associated with the IM master log on of the user is retrieved. At process block an IM session of at least one of the one or more IM applications is opened to begin an IM session according to the IM application setting rules associated with the IM master log on of the user. The IM content created during the session is then stored based on the IM retention rule associated with the IM master log on of the user at process block . In an embodiment the IM content is preferably stored in a computer readable format for example XML format. In an embodiment the stored IM content is retained based on the IM retention rule.

In another embodiment opening the IM session of at least one of the one or more IM application includes recording the IM content associated with the IM session. In yet another embodiment recording the IM content includes recording a log file associated to the IM content.

Periodically the IM content stored according to the applicable retention rules will be deleted all together from memory or otherwise removed from the central repository of .

The retention rule types may be data rule keyword rule sender rule and receiver rule . The data rule includes details relating to a date such as begin date end date and specified date range. The key word rule includes a keyword list. The sender rule includes sender name and sender email details. The receive rule includes receiver name and receiver email details.

The particular methods associated with embodiments of the invention are described in terms of computer software and hardware with reference to flowcharts. The methods to be performed by a computing device e.g. an application server may constitute state machines or computer programs made up of computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be written in a computer programming language or may be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interface to a variety of operating systems. In addition embodiments of the invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein. Furthermore it is common in the art to speak of software in one form or another e.g. program procedure process application etc. as taking an action or causing a result. Such expressions are merely a way of saying that execution of the software by a computing device causes the device to perform an action or produce a result. The invention may be implemented as a method performed in a client server network with the execution of the methods steps distributed across the network. Hence the method claims are not restricted to any particular architecture within which they may be executed.

Elements of the invention may also be provided as a tangible machine readable medium for storing the machine executable instructions. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of tangible machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It should be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. These references are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined as suitable in one or more embodiments of the invention.

Throughout the foregoing description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. For instance the detailed description as set forth above includes descriptions of method steps. However one skilled in the art will understand that the order of the steps set forth above is meant for the purposes of illustration only and the claimed invention is not meant to be limited only to the specific order in which the steps are set forth. Accordingly the scope and spirit of the invention should be judged in terms of the claims which follow.

