---

title: Vibration tone differentiation
abstract: A system, apparatus, method and article to perform vibration tone differentiation are described. The apparatus may include a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may comprise a messaging client. The messaging client may receive an incoming message sent to the mobile computing device. The messaging client may parse communication information from the incoming message. The messaging client may determine a priority level of the incoming message from the communication information. The mobile computing device may also comprise a motor controller. The motor controller may retrieve a vibration sequence associated with the priority level and instruct a vibrate motor to vibrate according to the vibration sequence. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577423&OS=08577423&RS=08577423
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08577423
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080227
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide wireless communication capabilities. A mobile computing device may have the ability to notify a user of an incoming communication. The user of a mobile computing device may be notified through audible alerts vibration tone alerts or visual alerts. A mobile computing device that has received incoming communication information may notify a user of the mobile computing device using a vibration tone alert that is based upon the incoming communication information. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing vibration tone differentiation.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to vibration tone differentiation. In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device such as a smart phone may receive incoming communication information. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to vibration tone differentiation by a mobile computing device. For example a mobile computing device may provide vibration tone differentiation based upon incoming communication information. In this manner a user of a mobile computing device may be notified of incoming communication information using tactile output thereby avoiding or augmenting other modalities such as visual or audible outputs. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a messaging client to receive incoming messages sent to the mobile computing device. The messaging client may parse communication information from the incoming message. The messaging client may determine a priority level of the incoming message from the communication information. The messaging client may also include a motor controller. The motor controller may retrieve a vibration sequence that is associated with the priority level. The motor controller may instruct a vibrate motor to vibrate according to the vibration sequence. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.

A mobile computing device that may perform vibration tone differentiation may provide several advantages. For example a typical mobile computing device may notify a user of incoming communication information using a standard vibration tone. Incoming communication information may include phone call information message type email information sender identification message urgency voicemail information or receiver identification. The user of a typical mobile computing device may prioritize different types of incoming communication information. For example the user of a typical mobile computing device may want to answer all phone calls from a particular person and ignore all email messages that are not marked as urgent. A typical mobile computing device however may use the same vibration tone regardless of the incoming communication information. The user of a typical mobile computing device may be required to check the mobile computing device for all incoming communication information because the vibration tone is not indicative of the incoming communication information. The user of a typical mobile computing device may inadvertently ignore an important communication or miss an important phone call because the mobile computing device uses a standard vibration tone regardless of the priority of the incoming communication. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing vibration tone differentiation.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the wireless communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . As depicted in the memory may store a priority association database in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide vibration tone differentiation for the mobile computing device . Although the priority association database is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that the priority association database may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although the priority association database is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for the priority association database may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example.

As depicted in the memory may also store a vibration sequence database in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide vibration tone differentiation for the mobile computing device . Although the vibration sequence database is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that the vibration sequence database may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although the vibration sequence database is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for the priority association database may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Mobile computing device may include by way of example and not limitation messaging client message parser priority detection module motor controller vibrate motor priority association database and vibration sequence database . These elements or portions of these elements may be implemented in hardware software firmware or in any combination thereof.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may comprise messaging client . The messaging client may be used to receive send create edit save configure and organize messages. Messages may include phone calls short message service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages instant messages email messages pager messages voicemail facsimiles calendar event requests or website notifications. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In various embodiments the messaging client may comprise message parser . The message parser may support the receiving and interpretation of an incoming message. The message parser may be arranged to parse the communication information from the incoming message for example. The message parser may pass the relevant communication information to priority detection module .

In various embodiments the messaging client may comprise priority detection module . The priority detection module may receive communication information from the message parser . The priority detection module may communicate with priority association database . The priority detection module may use the communication information to look up and a retrieve a priority level in the priority association database . The priority detection module may determine the priority level of the incoming message from the communication information.

In various embodiments memory may comprise priority association database . The priority association database may store communication information and priority levels. The priority association database may be arranged to store priority levels for communication information. The priority association database may be used by the priority detection module to retrieve priority levels that are associated with particular communication information.

It can be appreciated that in some cases the priority levels may be configurable by the user of a mobile computing device. In one embodiment for example a user of mobile computing device may configure priority levels that are stored in the priority association database . The configuration of priority levels may be performed within a user interface UI supported by the mobile computing device. In other cases the priority levels may be automatically configured based on a set of heuristics or rules provided for a given implementation.

In various embodiments the messaging client may comprise motor controller . The motor controller may be responsible for controlling vibrate motor . The motor controller may instruct the vibrate motor to vibrate in response to an incoming message. The motor controller may receive a priority level from the priority detection module . The motor controller may communicate with the vibration sequence database . The motor controller may use the priority level to look up and retrieve a vibration sequence in the vibration sequence database . The motor controller may instruct the vibrate motor to vibrate according to the retrieved vibration sequence. The motor controller may be responsible for instructing the vibrate motor to vibrate according to additional user preferences. For example the motor controller may instruct the vibrate motor to vibrate for a period of time a speed an intensity or other user configurable parameter. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may comprise vibration sequence database . The vibration sequence database may store vibration sequences that are associated with particular priority levels. The vibration sequence database may be used by the motor controller to retrieve one or more vibration sequences that are associated with a particular priority level.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may comprise vibrate motor . Vibrate motor is capable of producing some form of tactile output such as vibration so that a user of the mobile computing device may be notified of an event. The vibrate motor may be enabled or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse. For example the user of a mobile computing device may wish to be notified when a new email message has arrived on the mobile computing device. If a new email message is received on the mobile computing device the vibrate motor may vibrate to notify the user of the mobile computing device . Vibrate motor may respond to instructions from the motor controller . For example the motor controller may instruct the vibrate motor to vibrate in accordance with a vibration sequence. In this manner a user or operator may then recognize various characteristics of a message e.g. type priority sender message content and so forth based on tactile output without necessarily viewing or hearing corresponding visual or audible outputs from the mobile computing device and determine whether to retrieve the message accordingly. This may be useful for example whenever the mobile computing device is within a pocket or other clothing item within tactile sensing range of the user or operator.

In general operation mobile computing device may perform vibration tone differentiation. The mobile computing device may receive an incoming message and parse communication information from the incoming message. The mobile computing device may also determine a priority level of the incoming message using the communication information. The mobile computing device may retrieve a vibration sequence associated with the priority level and instruct a vibrate motor to vibrate according to the vibration sequence.

In various embodiments incoming message may comprise message type . The message type may identify the type of message that has been sent to a mobile computing device. Examples for the message type may include but are not limited to a phone call SMS MMS instant message email message voicemail facsimile calendar event request or website notification. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In various embodiments incoming message may comprise sender identification . The sender identification may comprise information related to the sender of a message. Examples for the sender identification may include but are not limited to the sender s name contact information company name phone number instant messaging screen name email address facsimile number GPS coordinates network address Uniform Resource Locator URL Internet Protocol IP address media access control MAC address protocol identifier session initiation protocol SIP identifier and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In various embodiments incoming message may comprise message urgency . The message urgency may comprise information related to the urgency of an incoming message. Examples for the message urgency may include but are not limited to very high urgency high urgency medium urgency low urgency or no urgency. Any number of urgency levels may be assigned based on a level of granularity needed for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited to this example.

In various embodiments incoming message may comprise receiver identification . The receiver identification may comprise information related to the intended or unintended recipient of an incoming message. Examples for the receiver identification may include but are not limited to any of the examples given for sender identification including the recipients name company name phone number instant messaging screen name email address facsimile number GPS coordinates Uniform Resource Locator URL or Internet Protocol IP address. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In various embodiments incoming message may comprise message content . The message content may comprise information related to the content of the incoming message . Examples for the message content may include but are not limited to text multimedia file information calendar information facsimile information website information SMS information MMS information instant messaging information video conference information hypertext markup language HTML information extensible markup language XML information GPS coordinate information or any other information that may be contained within the incoming message. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In general operation incoming message may be sent to a mobile computing device . The user of the mobile computing device may prioritize an incoming message based upon various factors that may include the message type sender identification message urgency receiver identification the message content and so forth. The mobile computing device may receive an incoming message and parse communication information from the incoming message. The mobile computing device may also determine a priority level of the incoming message using the communication information. The mobile computing device may retrieve a vibration sequence associated with the priority level and instruct the vibrate motor to vibrate according to the vibration sequence.

Although the vibration sequence is depicted as a sequence of short and long vibrations it can be appreciated that vibrations contained within a vibration sequence may include many different time periods speeds and intensities. For example additionally or alternatively to the vibration sequence having some combination of short and long vibrations the vibrate motor may be instructed to vary speed of the vibrations such as faster sequences slower sequences and any number of intermediate speeds therebetween. In another example the vibrate motor may be instructed vary the intensity of the vibrations such as smoother vibrations rougher vibrations and any number of intermediate intensities therebetween. These and other vibration characteristics may be used to create unique and recognizable tactile output for the various aspects or characteristics of a message.

In some cases the vibration sequence may be configured by a user of a mobile computing device . For example the mobile computing device may allow a user to configure a particular vibration sequence . A user of a mobile computing device may be able to assign a customized or created vibration sequence to a priority level. The configuration and assignment of vibration sequences may be performed within a UI supported by the mobile computing device . In other cases the vibration sequence may be automatically configured in accordance with a given set of heuristics or rules provided for the mobile computing device .

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in logic flow an incoming message may be received at block . For example the messaging client of the mobile computing device may receive the incoming message .

The logic flow may parse communication information from the incoming message at block . For example the message parser of the mobile computing device may communicate communication information to priority detection module .

The logic flow may use the communication information to determine a priority level for the incoming message at block . For example the priority detection module of mobile computing device may access the priority association database to retrieve a priority level associated with the communication information . The priority detection module may communicate priority level to the motor controller .

The logic flow may use the priority level to retrieve a vibration sequence associated with the priority level at block . For example the motor controller may access the vibration sequence database to retrieve a vibration sequence associated with the priority level .

The logic flow may instruct a vibrate motor to vibrate in accordance with the retrieved vibration sequence at block . For example the motor controller of mobile computing device may instruct vibrate motor to vibrate in accordance with the vibration sequence .

The operation of the above described structures and associated logic flow may be further described by way of the following examples. The user of the mobile computing device may prioritize different incoming messages such as incoming message based upon a variety of factors. These factors may include but are not limited to message type sender identification message urgency receiver identification and message content . For example the user may prefer to immediately answer all incoming phone calls from the office. The user may also prefer to ignore all email messages that are not urgent. The user may configure different priority levels with various vibration sequences such as vibration sequences and using vibration tone differentiation. The user may choose the vibration sequence to associate with incoming phone calls from the office for example. The user may choose vibration sequence to associate with all email messages that are not urgent. The mobile computing device may be located within the user s pocket or handbag for example. When the mobile computing device uses a vibration tone to notify the user of an incoming communication the user will quickly be able to determine whether the incoming communication is important to them. Vibration tone differentiation helps to alleviate the risk of ignoring an important phone call because the user confused it with an unimportant email message based upon a standard vibration tone.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing instant messaging a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement messaging client arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. The messaging client may be enabled to handle messages of particular types and formats for a particular application. The messaging client may comprise for example a message parser a priority detection module a motor controller and meta language processing . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the messaging client may include any other type of messaging or communications application which is consistent with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in addition to the messaging client which are consistent with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise a priority association database . The priority association database may be arranged to store various communication information that has been parsed by the message parser . The priority association database may be arranged to store various priority levels. The priority association database may associate one or more priority levels with communication information. In some embodiments the user of mobile computing device may be able to configure the priority association database . The priority association database may be implemented in the memory of the mobile computing device for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibration sequence database . The vibration sequence database may be arranged to store various priority levels. The vibration sequence database may be arranged to store one or more vibration sequences. The vibration sequence database may associate one or more priority levels with one or more vibrations sequences. In some embodiments the vibration sequences may comprise short and long vibrations for example. In some embodiments the user of mobile computing device may be able to configure the vibration sequence database . The vibration sequence database may be implemented in the memory of the mobile computing device for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise a media database . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information A V information and or other data. In some embodiments the media database may be implemented in the memory of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of compressed or uncompressed content or information. The content or information may be associated with one or more images image files image groups pictures digital photographs music files sound files voice information videos video clips video files video sequences video feeds video streams movies broadcast programming television signals web pages user interfaces graphics textual information e.g. encryption keys serial numbers e mail messages text messages instant messages contact lists telephone numbers task lists calendar entries hyperlinks numerical information alphanumeric information character symbols and so forth. The content or information also may include command information control information routing information processing information system file information system library information software e.g. OS software file system software application software game software firmware an application programming interface API a program an applet a subroutine an instruction set an instruction computing code logic words values symbols and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a preferences database . The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the preferences database may store privacy rules and security parameters for controlling communications options for one or more messaging applications provided by the mobile computing device . The preferences database may be implemented in the memory of the mobile computing device for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise a message content database . The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects of messages sent and received by the messaging client . The message content database maybe implemented in the memory of the mobile computing device for example.

The mobile computing device also may comprise a contacts database . The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The contact record for an individual may comprise identifying information such as first name last name company employer name mailing addresses e.g. home work other telephone numbers e.g. home work mobile fax pager e mail address e.g. home work primary alternative IM screen names SMS identifier MMS identifier personal information notes and so forth.

The contacts database may be used or accessed when receiving and or sending messages. In various embodiments identifying information e.g. telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS identifier MMS identifier etc. included in messages received by the messaging client may be compared against the contacts database to identify the sender of a message. The contacts database also may be used or accessed when composing and or sending messages. For example the user of the mobile computing device may search for and open the contact record of a particular individual to initiate communication. In addition contact records in the contacts database may be filtered and matched against text typed by a user in messaging client to facilitate message addressing.

The mobile computing device may comprise a message log . The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by the mobile computing device. Entries in the message log may reflect recently made or attempted communications. In various implementations the entries in the message log may be accessed by the user for replying to a missed message and or for reinitiating or reattempting communication with a particular individual.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

It should be noted that the methods described herein do not have to be executed in the order described or in any particular order. Moreover various activities described with respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in serial or parallel fashion.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. It is to be understood that the above description has been made in an illustrative fashion and not a restrictive one. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Thus the scope of various embodiments includes any other applications in which the above compositions structures and methods are used.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

