---

title: Systems and methods for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device
abstract: Embodiments of computer-implemented systems and methods for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device are described. One example embodiment comprises receiving a request via a camera enabled mobile device to list one or more sale items, receiving images having the one or more sale items, the images being taken by the camera enabled mobile device, receiving data associated with the one or more sale items, and based on the data, listing the one or more sale items on a marketplace.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07991646&OS=07991646&RS=07991646
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 07991646
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081030
---
This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to systems and methods for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2008 EBAY INC. All Rights Reserved.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Camera enabled mobile devices such as cellular telephones have become very popular in recent years. A camera enabled mobile device may be capable of communicating data e.g. an image file over wireless data networks.

For some example embodiments systems and methods for creating marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device are disclosed. One example embodiment may comprise receiving a request via a camera enabled mobile device to list one or more sale items receiving images having the one or more sale items the images being taken by the camera enabled mobile device receiving data associated with the one or more sale items and based on the data listing the one or more sale items on a marketplace

The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with example embodiments. These example embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter. The embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of what is claimed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. Furthermore all publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

A camera enabled mobile device may include a mobile Operating System OS run on a hardware platform adapted for the OS. A camera enabled mobile device may include a Graphical User Interface GUI which may be based on the concept of direct manipulation of a touch screen monitor with gestures. The GUI may permit a nearly instantaneous response to user input. The gestures for interaction with the mobile OS may include swiping tapping pinching and or reverse pinching.

For some example embodiments systems and methods for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device may permit a user to take one or more pictures illustrating items to be listed on a marketplace and provide data related to the pictures. The data may be utilized to tag the items to be listed. The items may be extracted from the pictures tagged with the data and listed at the same time. A software application running on the camera enabled mobile device may utilize rich media technology to enable a user to take multiple pictures of various items or a single picture of a group of multiple items tag the items with data and list the items for sale on a marketplace. In some example embodiments a draft area may be utilized as an intermediary stage for images and data to be collected over a period of time before the data is associated with the items in the images and listed on a marketplace.

The user is a person interacting with the camera enabled mobile device via the GUI. In some other embodiments the user may be represented by an automated process designed to simulate a person operating the camera enabled device . The electronic marketplace in the context of the example network environment may be an online auction and fixed price shopping website configured to permit individual users and businesses to buy and sell goods and services e.g. eBay . The electronic marketplace may be a part of the worldwide electronic commerce which includes buying and selling of products or services over electronic systems such as the Internet and other computer networks. The multiple listing engine in some example embodiments may include various components facilitating listing of items for sale. A system for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device is described by way of example with reference to .

The communication module in some example embodiments may be configured to receive a request from the camera enabled mobile device to list one or more the sale items selected by a user from the images . For some example embodiments user interaction may not be needed because the sale items are selected based on predetermined default criteria. The communication module may be coupled to the multiple listing engine which in turn includes a media receiving module a processing module and a data receiving module .

The media receiving module in some example embodiments may be configured to receive the images . The images may be taken by the user operating the camera enabled mobile device . The images may include the sale items . For example the user may be willing to sell multiple items located in his garage. The user may utilize the camera enabled mobile device to take the images in his garage so that each image includes a plurality of the sale items . The data receiving module may be configured to receive data associated with the sale items . The data may be provided by the user or created automatically based on the images .

The processing module in some example embodiments may be configured to list the sale items for sale. The sale items are extracted from the images received by the media receiving module and the data received by the data receiving module . The processing module in some example embodiments may be configured to provide default data when no data is provided by the user. For example if the user provides no data and the sale items are of low value the processing module may associate the sale items with default data. For some example embodiments the sale items may be classified automatically with help of image recognition technology. Additionally a light weight listing process may be utilized in which the user may be provided with a few options. This approach may provide the multiple listing engine with the data sufficient to list the sale item .

The database in some example embodiments may be configured as a structured collection of records or data that is stored in a computer system which a computer program or a person using a query language may consult to answer queries. The records retrieved in answer to queries are information that can be used to make decisions. The database may store the images as well as the sale items . The sale items may include goods and or services which are shown in the images provided by the camera enabled mobile device and listed on the marketplace by the multiple listing engine .

For some example embodiments the bar code may be utilized to provide the data needed for the sale items to be listed on the marketplace . The bar code may be for example a Universal Product Code UPC which is widely used for tracking sale items . Thus an image of the bar code may be utilized to generate tags describing the sale items . The images in some example embodiments are photographs of the sale items . Each image of the images may include more than one item.

For some example embodiment because the camera enabled mobile device has native camera integration the user may utilize the camera enabled mobile device for various applications adapted to take advantage of this functionality. For example a user may take a picture of the bar code associated with a sale item. An application adapted to read the bar code may determine generated data descriptive of the sale item based on the picture of the bar code . The data may be utilized in listing of the item by the multiple listing engine or in a search for similar items on the marketplace . Then the search results may be analyzed and displayed e.g. average price of the product . The search result may be utilized in tagging the sale items .

In some example embodiments the camera enabled mobile device may permit listing of the sale items based on an image of the item and a minimal description. In some example embodiments in order for the user to receive data the user may be offered a selection of choices. In further example embodiments before the sale items are listed on the marketplace the images and related data are compiled in a personal draft area. Thus the user may take a picture add some tags to the picture and then place the picture and the tags in the personal draft area.

The receiver may be a device for converting sound into electric signals and vice versa. The touch screen in some example embodiments is a display which may detect the presence and location of a touch within the display area. The touch screen may be operated by touch or contact to the display of the device by a finger or hand. In some example embodiments the touch screen may sense other objects such as a stylus. The home button in some example embodiments may be a button that permits a user to see the icons . The icons may be utilized to start software applications installed on the camera enabled mobile device .

A web application running on the camera enabled mobile device is an example of a software application that may be started with one of the icons . A web application running on the camera enabled mobile device may employ generic web technologies that do not take advantage of the native capabilities of the camera enabled mobile device . The web application may also mix HyperText Markup Language HTML content with native content. Further example applications running on the camera enabled mobile device may be designed for instant notifications or real time alerts of users of the camera enabled mobile device . Camera is a device used to capture images either as still photographs or as sequences of moving images movies or videos .

As shown in the method may commence at operation with the communication module receiving a request from the camera enabled mobile device to list one or more sale items on the marketplace . At operation the media receiving module of the multiple listing engine may receive images of the one or more sale items . At operation the data receiving module may receive data associated with the one or more sale items and at operation the processing module may list the one or more sale items based on the data received at operation . A further example method for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device is described with reference to and .

At the decision block it may be determined by the processing module whether or not the user selects an offered option. If the user selects an option the processing module may receive the data provided by the user at operation . The data may be provided via the GUI of the camera enabled mobile device using various supported gestures. The GUI of the camera enabled mobile device may support direct manipulations including one or more of the following gestures multi touching swiping tapping pinching and reverse pinching. If on the other hand it is determined at decision block that the user did not select any options the processing module may receive at operation an automatically generated minimal description of the sale items . At operation the processing module may generate default data based on the minimal description received at operation .

Proceeding to the example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus systems and methods for marketplace listings using a camera enabled mobile device have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

