---

title: Seat for combat vehicle
abstract: A seat for a combat vehicle includes a generally rectangular rigid base including front and rear ribs disposed on opposite, longer sides of the base, the base including a pair of slot openings disposed adjacent opposite, shorter sides of the base; a generally rectangular inner cushion disposed on a top surface of the base; a generally U-shaped outer cushion disposed on a top surface of the inner cushion and along outer surfaces of the front and rear ribs; a cover disposed over the outer cushion; and a pair of support assemblies for supporting the seat in the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07815255&OS=07815255&RS=07815255
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07815255
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to combat vehicles and in particular to a seat for a combat vehicle.

Various tactical vehicles light armored vehicles and tanks are equipped with weapons mounted on a top surface of the vehicle typically on a rotating turret. A hatch is provided on the turret so that a soldier inside the vehicle may open the hatch and operate the weapon from inside the vehicle. The upper portion of the soldier s body extends through the hatch opening. The soldier may assume a standing position and or a seat may be provided. Existing seats are hammock like arrangements with supporting cords on the edges. The bottoms of the user s upper legs bear down on the supporting cords causing stress discomfort and eventually numbness. This is a very dangerous condition because the user may not be able to move effectively. Thus an improved seat is needed.

It is an object of the invention to provide a seat for a combat vehicle that is comfortable and minimizes many physical problems associated with prolonged sitting.

It is another object of the invention to provide a seat for a combat vehicle that provides for an immediate drop into the safety of the vehicle cabin.

One aspect of the invention is a seat comprising a generally rectangular rigid base including front and rear ribs disposed on opposite longer sides of the base the base including a pair of slot openings disposed adjacent opposite shorter sides of the base first strips comprising a first portion of a hook and loop fastener the first strips being attached to interior surfaces of the front and rear ribs a generally rectangular inner cushion disposed on a top surface of the base a generally U shaped outer cushion disposed on a top surface of the inner cushion and along outer surfaces of the front and rear ribs a cover disposed over the outer cushion and second strips comprising a second portion of a hook and loop fastener the second strips being attached to a bottom surface of the cover and mating with the first strips.

The front and rear ribs may comprise generally rectangular shapes. The base may comprise aluminum. The inner cushion may comprise foam and the outer cushion may comprise viscoelastic foam.

The seat further comprises a pair of support assemblies for supporting the seat in a vehicle. Each support assembly comprises a base bracket disposed under the base of the seat a first belt connected at one end to the base bracket and at another end to an adapter a second belt connected at one end to the adapter and at another end to a quick release link and a quick release snap hook removably attached to the quick release link.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention is a multifunctional safety and comfort platform seat with application for gunners scouts and vehicle commanders of various tactical vehicles light armored vehicles and tanks. The inventive seat is configured for extreme comfort and military operational functionality. The seat helps to minimize fatigue discomfort and physiologic degradation associated with vascular lymphatic and neurologic compression deficits. Thus maximum functionality and physical endurance is sustained thereby allowing soldiers and marines to safely complete mission objectives effectively.

Referring again to inner cushion is generally rectangular and comprises for example formulation 210 HDHR foam designed for shock absorption. The shock absorbing inner layer is very important to the functionality of the seat . In a preferred embodiment the inner cushion has a density of 7.2 lb per cubic foot indention forced deflection of 60 lb. support factor compression modulus of 2.72 to avoid bottoming out airflow through cellular structures of 0.9 cubic feet per minute 125 Pascals tensile strength of 20.4 lbs 20 inches minute crosshead with 95 elongation at 20 inches minute crosshead. The inner cushion meets or exceeds flammability standards.

Outer cushion is generally U shaped and comprises for example formulation 204 viscoelastic foam designed for comfort. Outer cushion has a density of 5 lb per cubic foot indention forced deflection of 45 lb airflow of 1.7 cubic feet 125 Pascals tensile strength of 17 lbs and elongation of 121 . In combination the inner and outer cushions significantly reduce compression of the gluteal and hamstring muscles along with the pelvic ischial tuberosities and femoral structures. This results in maximum comfort and support. The viscoelastic foam of the outer cushion has an indirect yet positive influence on flow in the veins arteries and lymph vessels. As well the outer cushion minimizes microtrauma to the spine sciatic nerve and supporting tissues. This limits physiologic degradation and maximizes functionality. Additionally by decreasing pressure on the deep veins the viscoelastic foam reduces the chance of developing deep vein thrombophlebitis DVT which is a blood clot in the deep veins of the leg. In addition to covering the top surface of the inner cushion the outer cushion covers the outer surfaces of the ribs . Covering the outer surfaces of the ribs pads the curved edge of the base and increases the body surface contact area. The end result is the maximum in comfort support and physiologic optimization.

Seat is configured to suspend from the hatch or turret opening in an armored or tactical vehicle. The support assemblies connect the base to brackets fixed to the vehicle. is a perspective view of a support assembly . Support assembly includes a short belt woven through a base bracket and an adapter . The base bracket when turned on its edge fits through the slot opening in base . The base bracket is then rotated so that it bears against the bottom of the base . A long belt is also woven through the adapter and is adjustable in length to accommodate various heights and vertical positions of gunners and scouts. Excess belt is secured with an elastic band . Belts may comprise nylon webbing.

The upper end of long belt is woven through the belt opening in the quick release link . The top portion of the quick release link is inserted in a link opening in the quick release snap hook such that the curved hook engages the hook opening in the quick release link . Snap hook attaches to bracket via bracket clip . Curved hook may be disengaged from the link by pulling on release lever . The release link and snap hook allow the user to quickly drop from the hatch area during a vehicle rollover event or other emergency situation.

Referring again to each support assembly includes a brightly colored reflective lanyard as a means of engaging the quick release system. The lanyard may be pulled by the user of the seat or any other vehicle occupant. Lanyard may comprise stitched nylon webbing. A loop in lanyard receives a cord that fits through an opening in quick release lever . The other end of lanyard comprises a handle in the form of webbing stitched perpendicular to the rest of lanyard . Lanyard may include 8 hour photoluminescent strips for easy localization in darkness. The support assemblies are released from the snap hooks by grasping lanyard handles and pulling.

To prevent accidentally releasing the support assemblies one or more O rings may be positioned over the quick release lever . The O ring provides resistance to the movement of lever . The number and stiffness of the O rings determine the ease with which the lever may be moved.

The fully adjustable seat permits enhanced surveillance postures particularly when employed in conjunction with transparent or metal armored turrets. The quick release attachment point bracket also functions as a means to hang an intravenous bag for medical emergencies. Seat pivots from front to back allowing a tilt capability that enables the user to quickly slide forward and downward to enter the vehicle. The seat also assists the user with egress from the vehicle in that the rigid base allows for a sturdy and secure platform which acts as a step when exiting the vehicle through the hatch. An exemplary seat is about 21 inches long about 6 inches wide and weights about eight pounds. The seat width allows for unencumbered access to personal weapons pockets and attached tactical gear.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

