---

title: Minimal startup mode for performing multiple-reboot configuration
abstract: A computer implemented process performs a plurality of computer bootups in minimal mode. Login authentication is disabled during the computer bootups. All startup programs and services not required to install new software are disabled during the computer bootups. New software is installed during the computer bootups. During the final computer bootup, the disabled startup programs and services are enabled to restore the computer to normal operating condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08171276&OS=08171276&RS=08171276
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08171276
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080610
---
The invention relates generally to computer processing and specifically to booting a computer a multiple number of times with login authentication disabled and start up programs disabled to install new software.

Modern computing systems use software that commonly requires updating for increased functionality. Software updates are downloaded and then installed on the computer s hard drive. Complete installation often requires that the computer be rebooted. Some updates may require multiple reboots and multiple updates often require multiple reboots. The normal rebooting process typically loads into memory start up applications and usually requires that the user login with a password. When multiple reboots are required to fully install software updates the installation process is time consuming and requires repeated attention by the user.

When multiple time consuming reboots are required to fully install a software update the computer user may delay rebooting the computer until a more convenient time for the user. However when multiple reboots are required for full installation the computer software will remain non updated and insecure until the multiple reboots occur. Further a partial installation without a reboot may create conflicts and instability in the computer software.

Some computer software such as Microsoft Windows offer the user an option to reboot the computer in a minimal mode. A minimal reboot is a faster way to reboot the computer because the user can disable various aspects of the software such as start up applications. However a minimal reboot as currently known in the prior art still suffers from a number of limitations. First a minimal reboot does not offer the option to disable the login authentication requirement. Second when installation of a software update requires multiple reboots the user typically must manually reboot the computer each time enter a user password and then wait for each minimal bootup to complete before starting another bootup. This prior art process is not an efficient way to perform multiple reboots because the user must manually start each bootup select available options for a minimal bootup monitor the bootup process to enter a password determine when each minimal reboot is complete and then manually start the bootup process again. Finally when multiple minimal reboots are completed the user must reboot the computer a final time in normal mode to bring the system back to the expected normal boot up state with all start up applications and systems running.

A need exists for a computer program that performs multiple reboots that disables login authentication and startup program and services initialization during the reboots that leaves detection configuration startups active if the next update step requires network access for downloads that installs software and that re enables the disabled features following the last configuration step after the last reboot to bring the system back to the normal bootup state. A need also exists for an efficient application programming interface that provides selectable options for performing multiple reboots for disabling login authentication and startup program initialization for leaving detection configuration startups active if the next update step requires network access for downloads and for enabling the disabled features following the last configuration step after the last reboot to bring the system back to the normal bootup state.

A computer implemented process performs a plurality of computer bootups. Login authentication is disabled during the computer bootups. All startup programs not required to install new software are disabled during the computer bootups. New software is installed during the computer bootups. During the final computer bootup the disabled startup programs are enabled to restore the computer to normal operating condition.

The principles of the present invention are applicable to a variety of computer hardware and software configurations. The term computer hardware or hardware as used herein refers to any machine or apparatus that is capable of accepting performing logic operations on storing or displaying data and includes without limitation processors and memory the term computer software or software refers to any set of instructions operable to cause computer hardware to perform an operation. A computer as that term is used herein includes without limitation any useful combination of hardware and software and a computer program or program includes without limitation any software operable to cause computer hardware to accept perform logic operations on store or display data. A computer program may and often is comprised of a plurality of smaller programming units including without limitation subroutines modules functions methods and procedures. Thus the functions of the present invention may be distributed among a plurality of computers and computer programs. The invention is described best though as a single computer program that configures and enables one or more general purpose computers to implement the novel aspects of the invention. For illustrative purposes the inventive computer program will be referred to as the Minimal Bootup Program. The term Bootup refers generally to the process of starting or restarting a computer wherein an operating system is loaded into the computer s main memory or random access memory to enable a user to run applications on the computer.

Additionally the Minimal Bootup Program is described below with reference to an exemplary network of hardware devices as depicted in . A network comprises any number of hardware devices coupled to and in communication with each other through a communications medium such as the Internet. A communications medium includes without limitation any physical optical electromagnetic or other medium through which hardware or software can transmit data. For descriptive purposes exemplary network has only a limited number of nodes including workstation computer workstation computer server computer and persistent storage . Network connection comprises all hardware software and communications media necessary to enable communication between network nodes . Unless otherwise indicated in context below all network nodes use publicly available protocols or messaging services to communicate with each other through network connection .

Minimal Bootup Program typically is stored in a memory represented schematically as memory in . The term memory as used herein includes without limitation any volatile or persistent medium such as an electrical circuit magnetic disk or optical disk in which a computer can store data or software for any duration. A single memory may encompass and be distributed across a plurality of media. Thus is included merely as a descriptive expedient and does not necessarily reflect any particular physical embodiment of memory . As depicted in though memory may include additional data and programs. Of particular import to Minimal Bootup Program memory may include detection configuration startup applications needed to download software with which Minimal Bootup Program interacts.

A preferred form of the invention has been shown in the drawings and described above but variations in the preferred form will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The preceding description is for illustration purposes only and the invention should not be construed as limited to the specific form shown and described. The scope of the invention should be limited only by the language of the following claims.

