---

title: Taxonomy based indexing and searching
abstract: A method, apparatus, and computer program product provide the ability to locate and display data in a taxonomy. A canonical taxonomy is defined (that is not exposed to a user that is searching for parts) by defining canonical categories and canonical attributes in a hierarchical structure. Mapping taxonomies are defined that define mapping categories that map to both canonical categories and canonical categories plus canonical attributes. Part data is processed based on the mapping taxonomies during which the data is mapped to a canonical category. A search request is specified in a particular mapping taxonomy format and results are returned (and displayed) that include data from multiple different taxonomies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08131757&OS=08131757&RS=08131757
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 08131757
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080926
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e of the following co pending and commonly assigned U.S. provisional patent application s which is are incorporated by reference herein 

Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 976 296 filed Sep. 28 2007 by Michael B. Haley and Laura Quiroga entitled TAXONOMY BASED INDEXING AND SEARCHING and

Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 976 191 filed Sep. 28 2007 by Michael B. Haley and Laura Quiroga entitled SCALABLE PORTAL ARCHITECTURE FOR SEARCH AND CONTENT WAREHOUSING .

The present invention relates generally to taxonomies and in particular to a method apparatus and article of manufacture for mapping and searching across multiple different taxonomies.

Taxonomies are used within almost every website today to categorize and help users find data. When browsing a website a user must learn the structure of a proprietary taxonomy or use a standard taxonomy that may not be familiar to the user. What is needed is a mechanism for searching across a variety of different taxonomies using a schema or taxonomy that the user is familiar with. The problems of the prior art may be better understood with an explanation of taxonomies and prior art search and retrieval methodologies.

As used herein the term taxonomy generally refers to a scheme by which parts may be categorized. The term category refers to the category e.g. a casement window for a particular part. More specifically a taxonomy is a data format for a particular supplier for a particular part for a particular industry. Different manufacturers will not always use the same data formats. The individual formats are referred to as taxonomies.

Taxonomies may be defined by multiple industries for a broad range of uses. These taxonomies include some of the following CSI MasterFormat 2004 taxonomy OmniClass 1.0 taxonomy and CSI UniFormat II taxonomy.

In addition taxonomies can be defined more narrowly. For example a specific manufacturer may maintain an internal taxonomy to organize inventory or a catalog. As an example a company e.g. the assignee of the present invention Autodesk Inc. may maintain a taxonomy for each of its product catalogs. In this regard Autodesk Inc utilizes the following taxonomies Autodesk AutoCAD MEP Catalog Structure Autodesk Revit Arch Catalog Structure Autodesk Revit MEP Catalog Structure and Autodesk AutoCAD Str Catalog Structure . Each of these taxonomies has its own vocabulary and unique hierarchy. Further taxonomies often involve a class and one or more subclasses.

Traditionally architects have supplied floor plans or other drawings as the initial step in the design process e.g. the home design process and the general contractors GC have supplied the individual pieces that fill out the floor plan. This includes everything from windows and doors to faucets and light fixtures. Increasingly architects are adding these specific pieces to drawing files. Unfortunately searches to find the particular fixture involves using a standard search engine and often take far longer than it should up to 60 of the time . Further searches may result in a huge number of records in many different formats e.g. taxonomies . I

Accordingly in the prior art users have had to use traditional searches to find the information that they need e.g. using web search engines . In this regard to find certain parts in certain formats users utilized standard web searches that potentially returned thousands of hits. The user would then refine the search being more specific and return fewer hits. Subsequently the user would select a link and search for the part. Once a part was selected and if a corresponding file actually exists the user would download a file for the part. If the file does not exist the user would continue searching. With such an approach the user may not find relevant information and would be forced to refine the search and start the entire process over.

Another problem with the prior art is how to effectively digest a wide range of catalog data pertaining to specific parts defined in a myriad of classification schemes taxonomies. Once and if this data has been indexed the further problem is how to query across it without being limited to data originating from specific classification schemes taxonomies.

Traditional database aggregation approaches to this problem have involved a strict normalization of all incoming data into a single master schema. Such an approach is inherently a non scalable model due to the specific attention that is required to each individually different schema and the fragility of this system in the face of a changing schema. Furthermore the database approach suffers from the problem of requiring an exact match to a query or no results are returned.

In view of the above what is needed is the capability to process digest a wide range of catalog data defined in a myriad of different classification schemes and the capability to search across all of the different catalog data regardless of the schema used to conduct the search.

One or more embodiments of the invention provide for the use of a canonical taxonomy that can be visualized as the collection of all supplier part taxonomies into a standard format collected into a central database taxonomy database . The canonical taxonomy does not have knowledge of the other taxonomies but serves as a standard format to which other supplier part taxonomies are mapped to. Further embodiments of the invention bridge the gap between users who are familiar with a standard taxonomy and can quickly navigate to a category with users who are not familiar with a particular standard taxonomy or may not want to navigate a taxonomy structure. In order to provide this functionality to users a user interface provides a variety of industry standard taxonomies or non standard taxonomies as well as a simple search input box allowing for free form text searching across multiple taxonomies.

Accordingly architects can easily add fixtures external drawing files from manufacturers part companies retailers suppliers by aggregating supplier data into a general database using a general format a single canonical taxonomy and users are allowed to search this database by processing a users query which is specified in an industry taxonomy to fit the canonical taxonomy of the database. It does not require that the suppliers have the same data format nor does it require that a users search be formatted in a particular way. The search is processed to fit the format of all the suppliers. Thus suppliers can use one or more industry taxonomies to uniquely identify a product category as well as any relevant attributes that may be inherent in the taxonomy description and a pipeline converts this specification to the general canonical format.

To provide such functionality a user search is canonically formatted to suit the format of the taxonomy database and returns very specific data to the user.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention define a common format for specifying industry defined taxonomies as well as a mapping to a canonical taxonomy.

A network such as the Internet connects clients to server computers . Additionally network may utilize radio frequency RF to connect and provide the communication between clients and servers . Clients may execute a client application or Web browser and communicate with server computers executing Web servers . Further the software executing on clients may be downloaded from server computer to client computers and installed as a plug in or ActiveX control of a Web browser. Accordingly clients may utilize ActiveX components component object model COM or distributed COM DCOM components to provide a user interface on a display of client . The Web server is typically a program such as Microsoft s Internet Information Server .

Web server may host an Active Server Page ASP or Internet Server Application Programming Interface ISAPI application which may be executing scripts. The scripts invoke objects that execute business logic referred to as business objects . The business objects then manipulate data in database through a database management system DBMS . Alternatively database may be part of or connected directly to client instead of communicating obtaining the information from database across network . When a developer encapsulates the business functionality into objects the system may be referred to as a component object model COM system. Accordingly the scripts executing on web server and or application invoke COM objects that implement the business logic. Further server may utilize Microsoft s Transaction Server MTS to access required data stored in database via an interface such as ADO Active Data Objects OLE DB Object Linking and Embedding DataBase or ODBC Open DataBase Connectivity .

Generally these components all comprise logic and or data that is embodied in or retrievable from device medium signal or carrier e.g. a data storage device a data communications device a remote computer or device coupled to the computer via a network or via another data communications device etc. Moreover this logic and or data when read executed and or interpreted results in the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention being performed.

Thus embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass logic and or data accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. In other words an article of manufacture or computer program product is a program storage device readable by a computer that tangibly embodies at least one program of instructions executable by the computer to perform specific method steps.

Those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this exemplary environment without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components including different logic data different peripherals and different devices may be used to implement the present invention so long as similar functions are performed thereby.

One or more embodiments of the invention are implemented in an application or browser executing on client . As used herein the client may also be viewed as the user while the server may be viewed as the content provider. Such an application bridges the gap between users who are familiar with a standard taxonomy and can quickly navigate to a category with users who are not familiar with a particular standard taxonomy or may not want to navigate a taxonomy structure. In order to provide this functionality to users embodiments of the invention provide a user interface with all of the industry standard taxonomies that the invention supports as well as a simple search input box allowing for free form text search.

In addition to providing multiple taxonomies for the user client to search embodiments further provide content providers the ability to classify content using a standard taxonomy. This means that the content provider and the user may use different taxonomies to classify and search. The challenge here comes when multiple taxonomies that contain the same logical category. For instance as illustrated in it is possible to find Doors under both the CSI MasterFormat 2004 taxonomy and the CSI OmniClass 1.0 taxonomy .

If users are only allowed to search by the category used by the content provider it would be incumbent upon the content provider to classify all of the data for all standard taxonomies. In general this would not be a practical requirement. Instead embodiments of the invention allow the content provider to be as flexible with the classification as the user searching the site e.g. database .

The remainder of the specification describes the architecture for providing the flexibility needed by content providers and our users . The first section discusses the taxonomy architecture itself and the subsequent sections describe how the taxonomy is used during processing indexing searching and in the user interface .

Embodiments of the invention define a common format for specifying industry defined taxonomies as well as a mapping to a canonical taxonomy. As used herein and as described above a taxonomy is a scheme by which parts may be categorized. Further the term category is a category e.g. casement window of a particular part. Lastly the term attribute is a parameter that identifies a specific aspect of a part e.g. the width of a window .

Once configured an application produced in accordance with embodiments of the invention may include multiple industry taxonomies. Each of these taxonomies may use the Web Ontology Language OWL for its definition and may further be defined in accordance with an XML schema specification referred to herein as the TaxonomyXML specification . OWL supports the ability to define object properties and relationships and has the advantage of being able to apply specific properties to specific objects. For example a user can define a chair as being an instance of furniture and seat as a variation of chair as applied to furniture. In addition it provides the ability to define hypernyms and hyponyms where wood is a material and pine is a type of wood . The ability to define hypernyms and hyponyms is useful in determining what material types are provided under a specific category. OWL allows this set to be inferred. Since wood is a material and pine is a wood pine must be a material .

Each of the industry taxonomies is defined separately with its own XML representation. Such separately defined industry taxonomies are referred to as mapping taxonomies . In addition a unique taxonomy is defined and is referred to as the canonical taxonomy . The canonical taxonomy represents the reference point for all other taxonomies and is the key to mapping one taxonomy category to another. However the canonical taxonomy is never surfaced to the user. Thus the canonical taxonomy may be viewed as an intermediate taxonomy that defines the mapping information for all taxonomies.

Each of the taxonomies defines a set of categories and the relationships between them. For each of the categories within the mapping taxonomies a mapping back to the canonical taxonomy is defined. Since the canonical taxonomy is a shallow taxonomy and the industry taxonomies are deep taxonomies it is necessary to extract the attribute information from the mapping taxonomy category as well. As used herein a shallow taxonomy reflects many different horizontal categories of a hierarchy while a deep taxonomy refers to multiple different levels of a hierarchy with each level being a further specialization or detail of a parent node in the hierarchy. For instance the deep mapping taxonomy may contain a category called Wood Windows . However this category is simply a Window with a Material attribute equal to Wood . Therefore both a category and category attribute mappings may be defined.

The canonical taxonomy represents all of the categories defined by all of the supported mapping taxonomies . In addition to defining the relationships between all of the categories within the canonical taxonomy the canonical taxonomy defines all of the attributes supported by each category. For instance a category Window may include attributes Height Depth and Material . These attributes are used to drive the user to relevant search terms for the categories. The attribute defined in the canonical taxonomy may also include a standard unit of measure. This unit is used to normalize all of the data to a single unit for easier searching. The canonical taxonomy also supports the use of enumerations and variations. Enumerations are defined as a set of valid values for a given attribute. A given canonical taxonomy is not limited to the enumeration. Further the enumeration may define its hyponyms. Variations provide the ability to define an attribute using more than one word. For example a variation on the attribute length may be len .

Not shown in is the use of ranges. Ranges are defined in the taxonomy for each attribute with a unit definition. This is not strictly required but gives the taxonomy and a website used in accordance with the taxonomy the ability to display ranges within an attribute filter. An index can also be used to determine the ranges allowing the data to determine the appropriate range sets.

Thus the canonical taxonomy maintains a unique vocabulary which can be defined to encompass multiple taxonomies. In addition the canonical taxonomy can be used to define the unique semantics of the different vocabularies. This includes the ability to define enumeration s and equivalent phrases. For example referring to the enumeration for wood could be defined as any of the following Elm Pine or Maple. This flexibility allows the canonical taxonomy to be defined in a very loose way.

Further the mapping taxonomy defines the hierarchy defined by the industry taxonomy. In addition a rich attribute set can be added to capture the category definitions. For example referring to a category called wood sliding doors may have two attributes added to map to a general category called Doors by adding the Material Wood and Mode of Operation Sliding attributes.

In view of the above embodiments of the invention may implement both the mapping taxonomies and canonical taxonomies as well as the mapping between them using XML extensible markup language . In this regard a first XML document may be utilized to define a canonical taxonomy having various elements. The canonical taxonomy would define categories e.g. windows and subcategories e.g. casement windows as well as attributes e.g. length and material possible ranges for the attributes as needed and possible enumeration s for the attributes e.g. maple elm and pine for types of wood materials . This first XML document representing the canonical taxonomy is likely to be maintained in private i.e. is not publicly accessible or viewable by a user to ensure transparency and ease of use for clients accessing and searching the taxonomy.

A second XML document may be utilized to define each mapping taxonomy in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Since the mapped taxonomy is a deep taxonomy multiple categories would be defined and mapped to the appropriate canonical category in the canonical taxonomy all within the second XML document .

The resulting XML documents would define specify a hierarchy for the mapped taxonomy and canonical taxonomy of categories enumeration s and attributes.

Thus embodiments of the invention apply a more flexible approach than the prior art to classification systems and utilize a search metaphor rather than a pure database query based system. In embodiments of the invention a master classification system e.g. the canonical taxonomy is developed but the key difference is that other classification systems i.e. the mapped taxonomies are also supported as mappings to this system . Further data that is discovered that does not exactly map to its purported classification model is still considered as part of the eventual search by a client .

Eventually the mapped taxonomies may be normalized during processing and later used as part of an indexing process. Such normalization serves to normalize the classification of a specific part and its attributes into the canonical taxonomy thereby making the parts commonly locatable.

 1 is comprised of a hierarchical structure permitting a single node to be linked to more than one distinct parent node that is not a descendant or ascendant of the other parents 

 2 for each category node the name and all synonyms including multiple language variants are represented 

 4 each property attribute has the unit and value semantics below may be shared but multiple properties within multiple categories 

 d a set of value semantics of non numeric data such as types of wood and a localized taxonomy for wood .

 5 all sub categories inherit the properties of the parent categories unless specifically specified not to.

As described above classification systems whether canonical or mapped can fall into two extreme categories 1 those that choose to keep a very shallow hierarchy with very general item classes or 2 those that go extremely deep with highly specific item instances. The key difference between some of these is that at some point further deeper classifications are actually based on what may arguably be the attribution of a higher level item. For example the hierarchy of could be extended to support Steel Tapered Roller Bearings but is this not just a Tapered Roller Bearing with a material type of Steel .

With the description of the taxonomy architecture and definitions a description of the pipeline architecture i.e. the processing of data into a taxonomy and the searching of such data is useful to better understand the invention.

The pipeline is the system used for extracting and processing the data from content providers e.g. clients . This data may come in many different forms. However ultimately it may be turned into an XML representation referred to herein as Part Atom. illustrates how a data representation e.g. Part Atom progresses through the pipeline in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Accordingly before entering the processing pipeline of the various mapped taxonomies are defined and mapped to a canonical taxonomy . Once the taxonomy itself is defined describes the pipeline for processing the data based on a mapped taxonomy . In other words the pipeline describes the ingestion process for data.

During the first phase extraction the data representation e.g. Part Atom is parsed and links referring to external documents are downloaded for extraction. The extraction process may convert the document data representation into a text format for searching extract relevant attributes from drawing data or it may extract it into other formats to be consumed by the user interface. The result of the extraction process is an extracted data representation e.g. an extracted Part Atom . In other words external documents and data are added to the data representation to create the extracted data representation .

The next phase of the pipeline processing attempts to classify the extracted data representation as accurately as possible. To accomplish this a set of rules is applied based on the origin of the extracted data representation the defined mapping taxonomy the values for the category or part no fields and the properties specified.

Accordingly process parses the output from the first phase i.e. the extracted data representation and normalizes the data based on the mapped taxonomy which is loaded into the processing function module . Each entry within the data extracted representation must contain at least one category in order to be mapped to the canonical taxonomy . Referring to for each of the mapping categories identified the canonical category is retrieved from the canonical taxonomy . Additionally if there are any defined attributes for the mapping category these are inserted into the data representation as additional attributes. After the entry has been processed it will contain one canonical category and a set of normalized attributes . In the case of multiple mapped categories the best category may be selected based on how well defined the category is. Thus once processed the output is a processed data representation e.g. a processed Part Atom that is based on the canonical taxonomy .

At this point the data is ready for the next phase indexing . The indexing component reads the output from the processing phase . For each entry a document is created in an index index database including the title description canonical category canonical parent category and its attributes . For each normalized attribute a new field is added to the index with its corresponding value. At this point the indexer also checks to see what hyponyms can be added to the attribute keywords i.e. based on the mapping taxonomy that is loaded into the indexing process module .

Once all of the entries have been indexed the index index database is ready to be used by a search engine.

In one or more embodiments of the invention users are provided with the ability to search a processed taxonomy via a website or browser . Such a website may consist of two components that provide the ability for users to search for content. The component that is visible to the user is the actual website serving the user interface via a browser e.g. via web server . This website provides on its home page a taxonomy navigation tool and a search box.

In addition to searching from a standard taxonomy the user may choose to enter a keyword search without selecting a category. illustrates a system where a user enters a keyword search without selecting a category in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. As illustrated the users keyword query search is sent to the search engine . Since the search engine does not have a category to search it selects a most likely category. Various methods may be used to select such a category. In or more embodiments the category selected is based on a histogram of the result set i.e. from prior searches . The search engine then uses this category to execute a search for the user without the user having to navigate the taxonomy .

At step a canonical taxonomy is defined. As described above the canonical taxonomy defines a standard schema and standard data format by which one or more parts are categorized. Further the canonical taxonomy is not exposed to a user searching the one or more parts. To define the taxonomy embodiments define canonical categories and canonical attributes for the canonical categories in a canonical hierarchical structure for the parts. The canonical taxonomy may also define enumeration s establishing a set of valid values for the canonical attributes and or variations establishing equivalencies between values for the canonical attributes .

At step two or more mapping taxonomies are defined that each define a mapping hierarchical structure for parts. Each mapping taxonomy is defined by defined mapping categories for the parts and defining a category mapping that maps the mapping categories to the canonical categories. Further additional mapping categories are also defined and a category attribute mapping is defined from such additional mapping categories to the canonical categories plus a mapping to one or more canonical attributes. Both the canonical taxonomy and mapping taxonomies may be defined using a Web Ontology Language OWL .

It may be noted that when mapping the mapping taxonomy to the canonical taxonomy the user can simply provide or state that a category is similar to or has the same relationship as a category in a different taxonomy. Thus the user can specify how a particular taxonomy or schema for a taxonomy relates to a different mapping taxonomy that has already been mapped to the canonical taxonomy. Embodiments of the invention would then be able to process all of the data automatically without actually specifying how the new taxonomy maps to the canonical taxonomy instead a relationship between the new taxonomy and the mapping taxonomy is established .

Once the mapping has been established at step any amount of data that complies with a particular data format or schema for a mapping taxonomy can then easily be processed at step automatically and without additional user input .

At step the data i.e. part data is processed based on the mapping taxonomies. During the processing each part in the data is mapped to a canonical category. In this regard the processing step may first extract the data by parsing the data downloading documents referred to by links in the data and extracting mapping attributes and mapping categories from the data.

The output from the extracted data may then be parsed and for each of the mapping categories extracted a corresponding canonical category is retrieved e.g. based on how well defined the mapping category is and inserted into the data. Further if there are any canonical attributes for the mapping category the canonical attribute is also inserted into the data. The data with the inserted canonical attributes may then be indexed wherein for each part in the data a document is create din an index that contains a title a description a canonical category a canonical parent category in the canonical hierarchical structure and corresponding canonical attributes. For each corresponding canonical attribute a field may be added to the index with a corresponding value.

At step a search request to search the data is received in one of the mapping taxonomies i.e. the search request is specified and defined in the format of one of the mapping taxonomies .

At step a canonical category is retrieved from the mapping taxonomy based on the search request. Such a retrieval may be conducted by performing a lookup in the mapping taxonomy for an ID of the category in the request. The mapping taxonomy would then return the mapped category with a reference to the canonical category. The returned canonical category along with any defined attributes are then used in the search step .

At step the processed data is searched based on the retrieved canonical category. For example the processed data i.e. in the index described above may be searched and results along with the matching canonical category is returned in the result set. Thus the search results include data from at least two different mapping taxonomies. Accordingly while the search is specified in the format for a particular mapping taxonomy the results contain elements from multiple different taxonomies.

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. The following describes some alternative embodiments for accomplishing the present invention. For example any type of computer such as a mainframe minicomputer or personal computer or computer configuration such as a timesharing mainframe local area network or standalone personal computer could be used with the present invention. In summary embodiments of the invention provide for a taxonomy and architecture that allows a flexible definition of a part s category from a content provider s standpoint as well as providing the user the ability to search in a very flexible way.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

