---

title: Methods and systems for tracking electronic commerce transactions
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for tracking user access to an advertisement and user transactions with an electronic commerce computer associated with the advertisement. In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology, a transaction tracking computer associates an identifier with each access (e.g., click) of an advertisement. Transactions that occur at the electronic commerce computer that are related to the advertisement will be reported to the transaction tracking server together with the identifier. In one embodiment, if the reported transaction is a duplicate of a previously reported transaction, then the reported transaction is determined to be invalid. In one embodiment, if the reported transaction occurs more than a predetermined amount of time after the time the identifier was initially generated, then the reported transaction will also be determined to be invalid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271329&OS=08271329&RS=08271329
owner: LinkShare Corporation
number: 08271329
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081020
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 980 970 filed Oct. 18 2007 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to electronic transaction tracking and more specifically to tracking of electronic transactions in connection with advertisements.

As the Internet and World Wide Web continue to expand and as increasing numbers of households and businesses join the online marketplace opportunities for merchants and consumers to reach each other will continue to increase. The environment of electronic commerce involves challenges ad advantages different from those of a physical marketplace. This is especially true in the area of advertising. Electronic advertising in the Internet marketplace is vastly different from par advertisements in the physical marketplace in many ways. One significant difference is that electronic commerce is not bounded by physical proximity once there is access to the Internet there is also access to the entire Internet marketplace. Thus the audience for electronic advertising can potentially be the entire online population. Another difference is that participants in electronic commerce have the ability to gather various types of information without marketplace or consumer surveys. Thus certain labor costs associated with advertising in the physical marketplace are reduced or non existent in the electronic marketplace.

On the other hand the differences of the Internet marketplace also present challenges for electronic advertising. Electronic advertising involves technological competence and equipment that interested market participants may not possess. Additionally electronic advertising involves economics that may be quite different from the economics of advertising in the physical marketplace. Accordingly there is continued interest in further developing and improving various aspects of electronic advertising and of the Internet marketplace to address these and other challenges.

The disclosed technology provides systems and methods for tracking electronic commerce transactions. In certain embodiments the disclosed technology provides tracking of electronic commerce transactions in connection with electronic advertising. In one aspect of the disclosed technology each access to an advertisement e.g. click of an advertisement can be tracked. In one embodiment by separately tin each access to an advertisement the disclosed technology can determine fraudulent activity on a click by click basis. Examples of fraudulent activity can include generating non existence accesses to an advertisement e.g. non existent clicks generating copies of existing accesses to an advertisement e.g. copying a click and or intercepting a valid access to an advertisement and replacing it with false information. In one aspect of the disclosed technology an electronic commerce computer can report transactions to a transaction tracking computer for recording. In one embodiment transactions can be reported using for example a pixel beacon and or a script in a Web page. In one embodiment transactions can be reported using a Web service using for example HTTP POST and or GET commands.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

The disclosed technology provides systems and methods for tracking electronic commerce transactions in the Internet marketplace. Various aspects of the disclosed technology also relate to electronic advertisements. The particular embodiments described herein are exemplary and do not limit the scope of the disclosed technology.

Some examples of tracking technologies are described in the following U.S. patents and patent applications U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 997 740 7 020 622 7 127 419 7 395 226 and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 192 256 10 868 682 09 771 135. The entire contents of these U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications are incorporated by reference herein.

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram of one embodiment of an Internet marketplace infrastructure in accordance with the disclosed technology. The Internet marketplace infrastructure includes a network that may include one or more telecommunication devices such as routers hubs gateways and the like as well as one or more connections such as wired connections or wireless connections. In different embodiments the network can include different numbers of telecommunication devices and connections and can span a range of different geographies. In different embodiments the networks can include all or portions of a wired telephone infrastructure a cellular telephone infrastructure a cable television infrastructure and or a satellite television infrastructure.

Various Internet marketplace participants are in communication with the network including one or more electronic commerce computers Web page servers and user computers . As used herein the term computer includes my system or device that can execute machine instructions including for example desktops laptops servers handheld devices television set top boxes and or networked computing systems or multiples or combinations thereof. The electronic commerce computer enables electronic transactions such as for example electronic shopping payment and or account management transactions. For example the electronic commerce computer may electronically display goods or services that Internet shoppers can order and purchase electronically such as clothing or groceries or shipping and transportation services. The Web page server includes Web pages and Web server software that can provide the Web pages to systems or devices requesting them. The Web pages can include a myriad of different media and content including for example a search interface shopping content news content video or audio content and or animations among others.

The electronic commerce computer the Web page server and the user computer can each include hardware such as network communication devices storage medium devices processors memory computer boards optical or magnetic drives and or human interface devices and software such as operating system software Web server software Web browsing software database management software software supporting various communication protocols and or software supporting various programming languages. In one embodiment the user computer includes Web browsing software that can request Web pages from the Web page server and that can transact electronic commerce in the electronic commerce computer .

In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology and with continuing reference to the Internet marketplace infrastructure also includes a transaction tracking computer that is in communication with the network . The transaction tracking computer can include the hardware and software components described above in connection with the marketplace participants . In various embodiments the transaction tracking computer can communicate through the network with the user computer the Web page server and or the electronic commerce computer . The transaction tracking computer will be described in more detail below in connection with .

In the Internet marketplace infrastructure of users at their computers may access Web pages in the Web page server but for any number of reasons may not visit the electronic commerce computer which can be a shopping Web site for example. This may be because users may not know that the electronic commerce computer exists and or may not be aware of new electronic commerce opportunities at the electro commerce computer . In order to reach potential consumers and increase the number of electronic consumers accessing the electronic commerce computer electronic advertisements may be placed in various Web pages throughout the Internet marketplace to inform users about the electronic commerce computer and or its merchandise. In this role the electronic commerce computer can also be referred to as an advertiser. The electronic advertisements can include different types of advertisements including banner ads or pop up ads and can include different types of content such as text graphics video audio and or animation.

As mentioned above herein the economics of electronic advertising are vastly different from that of advertising in the physical marketplace. Referring again to there may be a fee associated with placing advertisements on the Web page server s Web pages to inform users accessing those Web pages about the electronic commerce computer or its merchandise. Different ways of computing such a fee are possible. For example the fee may be based on the number of users who visit the electronic commerce computer after accessing an advertisement in a Web page on the Web page server and or based on the number of users who thereafter complete a purchase at the electronic commerce computer . This type of fee system will require tracking of electronic commerce transactions. Also as mentioned above herein participants in the Internet marketplace may wish to compile information about electronic commerce transactions without using marketplace or consumer surveys. Compiling such information will also require tracking of electronic commerce transactions. The sections below will describe various aspects of tracking electronic commerce transactions in accordance with the disclosed technology. The examples and reasons provided thus far for needing tracking of electronic commerce transactions are merely illustrative and do not limit the scope of the disclosed technology. There are other reasons and applications that need tracking of electronic commerce transactions and the disclosed technology apply to those as well.

Referring to there is shown an exemplary diagram of a Web browser that is displaying a Web page . Those skilled in the art will understand that a Web browser is software that is located on a computer. As used herein the term computer can include any system or device that can execute machine instructions including for example desktops laptops servers handheld devices television set top boxes and or networked computing systems or multiples or combinations thereof. Additionally those skilled in the art will understand that a Web page refers to a collection of different things including for example visual content displayed on a screen e.g. text picture video buttons etc. software code causing the visual content to be displayed as well as other software code that do not cause anything to be displayed but perform certain functionality in connection with the Web page. With continuing reference to the Web browser includes a field for specifying a Uniform Resource Locator URL . Those skilled in the art will understand that a URL specifies the electronic address of a Web page that is the electronic address where the Web page can be accessed by a Web browser. In the illustration the URL shows that the Web browser is accessing the Web page from an electronic address shown as http webserver.com. Referring also to the electronic address http webserver.com can be located on the Web page server and the Web browser can be located on the user computer . When the Web browser at the user computer accesses the URL http webserver.com the user computer and the Web page server communicate with each other and cause the visual components of the Web page to be displayed on a screen at the user computer . At the same time software code associated with the Web page is also communicated to the user computer .

In one aspect of the disclosed technology a Web page in accordance with the disclosed technology results from collaboration among an advertiser electronic commerce computer a Web page server and a tracking computer . Specifically referring to as an example the Web page includes Web page content and an advertisement . Those skilled in the art will recognize that different systems and methods exist for providing an advisement in a Web page. Such systems and methods can be used to provide the advertisement . In the illustrated embodiment the advertisement includes visual content that informs a user about the electric commerce computer in and or its merchandise. A user who may have accessed the URL because of interest in the Web page content may see the advertisement and become interested in visiting the electronic commerce computer . In the illustrated embodiment the advertisement includes software code associated with the Web page but not visible to the user that executes when a user accesses the advertisement such as by clicking it with an on screen pointer. In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology the software code when executed causes the user computer to communicate information to the transaction tracking computer in to inform the transaction tracking computer that a user is interested in visiting the electronic commerce computer by reason of an advertisement.

The software code can cause the user computer to communicate different types of information to the transaction tracking computer including information about the user information about the Web page server information about the Web page content and or information about the advertisement . In one embodiment information about the user can include a user identifier which can be for example a user ID required to access the Web page or an IP internet protocol address for the user. The user ID may be entered by the user or stored by the Web browser by way of for example a cookie. In one embodiment information about the user can include a list of Web sites previously visited by the user. In one embodiment information about the Web page server can be the URL and or a unique identifier associated with the Web page server . The unique identifier associated with the Web page server can be assigned in advance by the transaction tracking computer which requires advance collaboration between the Web page server and the transaction tracking computer . In one embodiment information about the advertisement can include an advertisement identifier that uniquely identifies the particular advertisement shown in the Web page . This advertisement identifier may be assigned in advance by the transaction tracking computer and or by the advertiser electronic commerce computer . Those skilled in the art will recognize how software code for performing the above functionality can be implemented. For example the software code can be implemented in HTML hyper text markup language using GET or POST methods or implemented using a scripting language such as Javascript. Other implementations are contemplated and are within the scope of the disclosed technology.

Turning now to aspects of the transaction tracking computer is a block diagram of exemplary components in a transaction tracking computer and is a flow chart of exemplary tasks performed by a transaction tracking computer. Referring now to the transaction tracking computer can include storage mediums databases for storing information and or identifiers received from the user computer and Web protocols software that mines communications using various Web protocols. The Web protocols software can communicate with the storage medium database to store and or retrieve information. The transaction tracking computer also includes what will referred to herein as a clickID manager which can be implemented in software and will be described in more detail in connection with . The transaction tracking computer can include a security fraud prevention module which will be discussed in detail later herein. The transaction tracking computer can include other software and hardware components not illustrated in including hardware such as network communication devices processors memory computer boards optical or magnetic drives and or human interface devices and software such as operating system software Web server software database management software software supporting various communication protocols and or software supporting various programming languages.

Referring now to there is shown a flow chart of exemplary tasks performed by a transaction tracking computer. After a user accesses an advertisement in a Web page the transaction tracking computer receives information about the user the Web page the Web page server and or the advertisement and the received information is stored in the storage medium database . The clickID manager generates an identifier referred to herein as a clickID . In one aspect of the disclosed technology the clickID manager generates a unique identifier each time it receives an indication that a user has accessed an advertisement . This allows the transaction tracking computer to ensure that different transactions will be identified by different identifiers. The clickID identifier can be implemented as a number a character string or as another format. In one embodiment the clickID identifier can include the date and time at which it was generated which can include year month day hour minute and or second information. Because the transaction tracking computer may receive multiple indications of advertisement accesses during given second the clickID can also include a sub second portion to distinguish different advertisement clicks received during the same second. For example a clickID of 11222007163812001 can be generated for the first advertisement access notification received by the transaction tracking computer at Nov. 22 2007 16 38 12 and a clickID of 11222007163812002 can be generated for the second advertisement access notification received by the transaction tracking computer at Nov. 22 2007 16 38 12 and so on. This manner of generating a clickID is exemplary and does not limit the scope of the disclosed technology. Other ways of generating a clickID are contemplated and are within the scope of the disclosed technology.

With continuing reference to the transaction tracking computer associates the generated clickID with the received information indicating an advertisement access and the clickID is stored in the storage medium database . The transaction tracking computer then directs the user computer Web browser to the electronic commerce computer while communicating the clickID . In one embodiment and referring also to the transaction tracking computer can direct the user computer s Web browser to the electronic commerce computer by providing the user computer with the electronic commerce computer s URL. This will cause the user computer to request a Web page from the electronic commerce computer . Those skilled in the art will recognize that a URL can have an electronic address portion and a data field portion. In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer can communicate the clickID by inserting the clickID into the data field portion of the URL provided to the user computer while maintaining the electronic address of the electronic commerce computer in the electronic address portion of the URL. If the electronic address of the transaction commerce computer is http www.shopping.com home.xml then an example of a URL that also includes a clickID may be http www.shopping.com home.xml c 11222007163812001 . When the transaction tracking computer sends this URL to the user computer the user computer will request the Web page http www.shopping.com home.xml from the electronic commerce computer while allowing the electronic commerce computer to receive the clickID of 11222007163812001. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other ways exist to direct the user Web browser to the electronic commerce computer while communicating the clickID . These other ways are also within the scope of the disclosed technology.

What has been described thus far are methods and systems for tracking a user access to an advertisement and directing the user s Web browser to an electronic commerce computer associated with the advertisement. Aspects of the electronic commerce computer will now be described.

Referring now to there is shown a diagram of an exemplary user Web browser displaying a Web page from the electronic commerce computer. In the Web page includes visual electronic commerce content which can include pictures textual descriptions of merchandise and or user interface forms for example. The electronic commerce computer can include many different types of Web pages. For example the Web pages can include multiple merchandise browsing pages an account management page a shopping cart page a check out page and a purchase confirmation page among others. As noted above herein those skilled in the art will understand that a Web page refers to a collection of different things including for example visual content displayed on a screen e.g. text picture video buttons etc. software code causing the visual content to be displayed as well as other software code that do not cause anything to be displayed but perform certain functionality in connection with the Web page.

In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology any of these Web pages can include software code that cause the user computer to report a transaction to the transaction tracking computer for recording. In one embodiment if a user creates an account on the account management Web page software code associated with the account management Web page can cause the user computer to report an account creation transaction to t transaction tracking computer for recording. In one embodiment if a user browses a daily specials Web page software code associated with the daily specials Web page can cause the user computer to report a daily specials browsing transaction to the transaction tracking computer for recording. In one embodiment if a user makes a purchase on the electronic commerce computer software code associated with a purchase confirmation Web page can cause the user computer to report a purchase transaction to the transaction tracking computer for recording. In one embodiment the purchase transaction report can include a total value of the purchase. In one embodiment the purchase transaction report can include an itemized list of purchased items and or the number of each item purchased and or the value of each item. These examples are merely illustrative and other types of Web pages and transactions not specifically disclosed herein are also contemplated to be within the scope of the disclosed technology. In one aspect of the disclosed technology the format structure and values for the transaction reports and for distinguishing between different types of transactions can be determined in advance by the transaction tracking computer. In this manner different types of transactions can be tracked without need for consumer or marketplace surveys. Instead software code associated with a Web page can report the transactions.

In one embodiment the software code that reports a transaction to the transaction tracking computer is a script which can be written in a programming language such Javascript. In one embodiment and as show in the software code is a pixel beacon which is a 1 1 pixel image in a Web page that is hyperlinked to the transaction tracking computer. The hyperlink contains a URL in which the electronic address portion points to the transaction tracking computer and in which the data field portion includes the transaction to be reported. The transaction tracking computer can retrieve the reported transaction from the data field portion of the URL and can store the retrieved report. The transaction tracking computer cannot however send a confirmation that it received the reported transaction because the pixel beacon or script cannot receive confirmations. One skilled in the art would understand how to implement a script and or a pixel beacon and will understand that the transaction reporting will occur as the pixel beacon hyperlink or script code is being loaded into a user Web browser.

In one aspect of the invention the electronic commerce computer uses a Web service to report transactions to the transaction tracking computer rather than using a pixel beacon or script. Referring to there is shown a block diagram of an electronic commerce computer that includes a Web service a storage medium database and a security module . Those skilled in the art will recognize that a Web service is a method that allows the exchange of data between two different systems via a standard transfer protocol. The Web service data transfer can use an HTTP GET or POST to send information about a transaction to the transaction tracking system. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a GET data transfer carries less capacity than a POST data transfer. In one embodiment GET data transfers can be used to report non SKU based transactions. In one embodiment GET data transfers can be used to report transactions for Lead Gen advertisers whose transactions contain a limited amount of data. In one embodiment the electronic commerce computer can include an API application programming interface for data formatting for both GET based compact name value pairs and POST based XML transactions. In one embodiment the Web service can report a transaction to the transaction tracking computer for recording. After the transaction tracking computer records the transaction it can send a confirmation to the Web service that the transaction has been recorded. In one embodiment the Web service can store a copy of its reported transactions in its storage medium database . In one embodiment the Web service can store a copy of its reported transactions in another storage medium database not shown distinct from that of the transaction tracking computer. The store medium database can contain Web pages. As described above herein there may be many different types of Web pages and many different types of transactions. In one embodiment the Web service can report a transaction to the transaction tracking computer substantially right after the transaction occurs i.e. the Web service can report individual transactions without waiting for any subsequent transactions to occur. The security module will be described in more detail later herein. The electronic commerce computer can include hardware and software components not shown in including hardware such as network communication devices processors memory computer boards optical or magnetic drives and or human interface devices and software such as operating system software Web server software database management software software supporting various communication protocols and or software supporting various programming languages.

In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology the electronic commerce computer s reports to the transaction tracking computer include a clickID associated with the user engaging in the transaction. Referring now to there is shown a flow chart of an exemplary process for reporting transactions with a clickID. When the electronic commerce computer receives a request for a Web page having a clickID in the URL the electronic commerce computer can retrieve the clickID from the data portion of the URL . The clickID can be associated with the user and can be stored . In one embodiment these can both be accomplished by storing the clickID in a cookie . When the user has completed a transaction the electronic commerce computer can retrieve the clickID and report the transaction to the transaction tracking computer together with the clickID . In one embodiment the electronic commerce computer can keep the clickID stored in the cookie after a transaction so that further transactions by the same user will still be associated with the same clickID. In one embodiment the electronic commerce computer can delete the clickID stored in the cookie after particular types of transactions . For example in one embodiment the electronic commerce computer may keep the clickID stored in the cookie for all transactions other than a purchase transaction but may delete the clickID stored in the cookie after a purchase transaction.

In one aspect of the disclosed invention and with reference to when the transaction tracking computer receives a reported transaction the transaction tracking computer can match the clickID of the reported transaction to a clickID recorded in the storage medium database . Once a match is identified the clickID manager can associate the reported transaction with the previously stored information from step i.e. information transmitted to the transaction tracking computer in response to a user accessing an advertisement. In various embodiments the reported transaction can be associated with a user identifier a Web page server identifier a Web page identifier and or an advertisement identifier.

In one aspect of the disclosed technology the transaction tracking computer may offer different levels of tracking service. For example for the most basic level of tracking service the transaction tracking computer may only record purchase transactions. For the next higher level of service the transaction tracking computer may record purchase transactions as well as account creation transactions for example. With increasing levels of service the transaction tracking computer can track more types of transactions and or more transaction information. For example at a higher service levels the transaction tracking computer may record and or the electronic commerce computer my record an itemized list of purchased items and or the number of each item. On the other hand at lower service levels the transaction tracking computer may record only a total value of a purchase. In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer can charge fees for different levels of tracking service. For example higher levels of tracking service can correspond to higher service fees while lower levels of tracking service can correspond to lower service fees.

What have been described thus far are systems and methods for tracking a user s access to an advertisement as well as systems and methods for tracking user transactions with an electronic commerce computer. The following paragraphs will describe security and or fraud prevention features in the electronic commerce computer and the transaction tracking computer.

Referring now to the transaction tracking computer includes a security fraud prevention module which can be implemented as software. In one aspect of the disclosed technology the security fraud prevention module performs duplicate checking on transactions that are reported to the transaction tracking computer for recording. In one embodiment the security fraud prevention module compares reported transactions with previously received transactions having the same clickID. If multiple transactions having the same clickID also have exactly the same information in other fields then it is possible that a Web page refresh or a denial of service has caused the same transaction to be repeated. In that situation the security fraud prevention module can mark the later duplicate transaction as being invalid. In one embodiment the storage medium database can include a separate storage area for invalid transactions. In this manner valid and invalid transactions are all recorded but are separately recorded in different areas of the storage medium . In one embodiment the security fraud prevention module compares reported transactions with earlier transactions received over a predetermined period of time to reduce the number of transactions that are compared. In one embodiment advertising fees for an advertisement are computed only based on valid transactions related to that advertisement.

In one aspect of the disclosed technology the security fraud prevention module and or the clickID manager includes a clickID timer. In one embodiment the time when a clickID is generated is recorded. When the transaction tracking computer receives a reported transaction having that clickID the time when the transaction is received can be compared to the time when the clickID was generated or their difference can be compared to a predetermined value. In one embodiment the clickID becomes invalid after a predetermined time. Thus if the difference in time is greater than the predetermined time then the reported transaction is considered to be invalid. This aspect of the disclosed technology addresses fraudulent attempts to copy existing clickIDs and use them in non existent artificially created transactions. In one embodiment the predetermined time can be tailored to the type of transaction. For example the predetermined time for a purchase transaction can range from a few hours to a few days whereas the predetermined time for a transaction of browsing a daily specials Web page can range from a few minutes to a few hours.

In another aspect of the disclosed technology the security fraud prevention module includes software that tests the integrity of reported transactions. This feature protects against fraudulent agents that might be monitoring communications between the transaction tracking computer and various electronic commerce computers. Such fraudulent agents may intercept reported transaction information communicated between the transaction tracking computer and the electronic commerce computer and replace them with false transaction information. In one embodiment the disclosed technology can use a Checksum algorithm to verify the integrity of a reported transaction. The electronic commerce computer s security module and the transaction tracking computer s security fraud prevention module each include the same checksum algorithm. When the electronic commerce computer reports a transaction it can apply the checksum algorithm to the transaction to be reported to generate a checksum value. The electronic commerce computer can report the transaction and the checksum number to the transaction tracking computer . After receiving the transaction and checksum number the transaction tracking computer can apply the checksum algorithm to the received transaction to compute a receive side checksum number. If this receive side checksum number matches the received checksum number then the reported transaction is determined to be legitimate. In one embodiment integrity testing can be based on a checksum algorithm as well as an encryption key. In this embodiment the checksum value is generated by applying both the checksum algorithm and the encryption key to a transaction. These embodiments are merely exemplary and one skilled in the art will recognize that other integrity checking systems and methods can be used. For example in one embodiment a checksum value need not be transmitted. Rather the checksum value can be a predetermined value that is known to both the electronic commerce computer s security module and the transaction tracking module s security fraud prevention module . When the electronic commerce computer desires to report a transaction it can configure the transaction so that applying the checksum algorithm to the message at the transaction tracking computer will result in the predetermined checksum value. Thus if the reported transaction received at the transaction tracking computer was fraudulently modified during transport applying the checksum algorithm to the received transaction at the transaction tracking computer will not result in the predetermined checksum value. Other types of algorithms for testing integrity will be known to those skilled in the art and are contemplated to be within the scope of the disclosed technology.

In one embodiment transactions that fail an integrity test can be stored in a separate log in the storage medium database at from valid transactions where they can be isolated and easily identified. In one embodiment such transactions with non matching checksums are not written to the storage medium database as doing so may allow writes of fraudulent data that could present a security hole. In one embodiment a log of failed Checksums can be stored in the storage medium database which can be an archival medium like tape that is not instantly accessible. In one embodiment the security fraud prevention module can provide a rollup count by day for advertisers that fail Checksum match. In one embodiment the Checksum can be computed by the electronic commerce computer before it opens a purchase confirmation Web page. A central server or processor can provide open source code to advertisers to perform the computation. In one embodiment although it is discouraged for advertisers to edit the checksum code advertisers may make changes. Such changes could lead to non commissionable transactions which should be immediately evident. Each advertiser will have a means to report how many transactions did not match Checksum over a date range.

In one aspect of the disclosed technology and referring to security measures are implemented to ensure that a valid electronic commerce computer is reporting transactions. Security measures can include for example hashing and encryption. Hashing is a commonly used cryptographic function for checking the integrity of data transfers. By using a private key the transaction tracking computer can create a matching hash to the one provided by the electronic commerce computer to validate the source of the data received. In one embodiment if transaction tracking computer created hash for the received data does not match the hash contained in the transfer the data will be considered invalid and stored in a separate area from valid data. In one embodiment keys are used that are hard to guess and are kept private which provides a secure means of preventing the acceptance of forged data. In one embodiment IP internet protocol restrictions can be used as a security measure. Referring to the private key and encryption algorithm for the transaction tracking computer can be maintained by the security fraud prevention module . Referring to the private key and encryption algorithm for the electronic commerce computer can be maintained by the security module .

In one aspect of the disclosed technology an electronic commerce computer can cancel transactions that have been reported to the transaction tracking computer. In one embodiment and with reference to the electronic commerce computer can perform steps and as if it were reporting a completed transaction but can replace reported values with their opposite values. For example if the reported completed transaction was a purchase in the amount of 100 the cancellation transaction can be the exact same transaction except with an amount of 100. In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer will recognize a negative value as a cancellation transaction and match the cancellation transaction to its originally reported transaction.

In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer includes a cancellation tool that can be accessible to all advertisers . In one embodiment the cancellation tool can be a Web page. The cancellation tool can allow advertisers to see a list of its reported transactions and select a transaction it wishes to cancel. In one embodiment selection of a transaction in the cancellation tool will lead to a cancellation confirmation page. In one embodiment the cancellation can be recorded as a cancellation transaction that leads to a credit of any advertising fees due. All advertisers will have access to this cancellation tool. In one embodiment if and advertiser would like to process a cancellation manually it will simply provide the necessary information transaction information and the cancellation will be reflected in advertiser and publisher online reports by the flowing day.

Various embodiments of the disclosed technology have been described herein and various embodiments are described below. The embodiments should not be considered to be mutually exclusive. It is contemplated that various embodiments can be combined.

In one aspect of the disclosed technology there is provided a method for reducing recording of fraudulent transactions. In one embodiment the method involves associating an identifier with an access of an electronic advertisement and with a first time stamp receiving a report of an electronic commerce transaction involving the identifier wherein the electronic commerce transaction is related to the electronic advertisement and in response to receiving the report associating the identifier with a second time stamp. In one embodiment the electronic commerce transaction is determined to be valid if the difference between said first time stamp and said second time stamp is less than or equal to a predetermined value and determined to be invalid if the difference is greater than the predetermined value. In one embodiment valid electronic commerce transactions can be stored. In one embodiment the identifier can include a current date and a current time. In one embodiment an advertising fee can be computed for the electronic advertisement based on a valid electronic commerce transaction.

In one embodiment of a method for reducing recording of fraudulent transactions the method involves associating a unique identifier to each of a plurality of accesses to n advertisement and receiving reports of a plurality of electronic commerce transactions related to the electronic advertisement wherein each of the plurality of electronic commerce transactions is associated with one of the unique identifiers. In one embodiment an electronic commerce transaction is determined to be valid or not valid based on the unique identifier associated with the electronic commerce transaction. Valid electronic commerce transactions can be stored in a storage medium. In one embodiment an advertising fee can be computed for the electronic identifier based on only the valid electronic commerce transactions. In one embodiment an electronic commerce transaction is invalid if the electronic commerce transaction is identical to another electronic commerce transaction associated with the same unique identifier.

In one aspect of the disclosed technology there is provided a system for recording information regarding an electronic commerce transaction. In one embodiment the system includes a transaction tracking computer that records information regarding electronic commerce transactions an electronic commerce computer that provides a Web page for an online transaction wherein the Web page includes software code that when executed communicates information regarding an electronic commerce transaction to the transaction tracking computer and a user computer that receives the Web page and executes the software code upon loading the Web page. In one embodiment the software code is either a pixel beacon or a script. In one embodiment the electronic commerce transaction is a merchandise purchase. In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer records information such as the total value of the merchandise. In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer records information such as the number of units of the merchandise and a cost per unit of the merchandise.

In one embodiment of a system for recording information regarding an electronic commerce transaction the system includes a transaction tracking computer that receives and records information regarding electronic commerce transactions and an electronic commerce computer that includes a storage medium and Web service software wherein the electronic commerce computer records information regarding an electronic commerce transaction in the storage medium and directs the Web service software to communicate the information to the transaction tracking computer. In one embodiment the transaction tracking computer transmits a confirmation to the electronic commerce computer to indicate that it has recorded the information. In one embodiment the Web service software implements one of a GET command and a POST command. In one embodiment the electronic commerce transaction is a merchandise purchase. In one embodiment the information regarding the electronic commerce transaction includes a total value of the merchandise. In one embodiment the information regarding the electronic commerce transaction includes the number of units of the merchandise and a cost per unit of the merchandise. In one embodiment the electronic commerce transaction directs the Web service software to communicate a cancellation transaction to the transaction tracking computer to cancel a previously recorded transaction.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise software and computer components and software and computer implemented steps that will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example tracking recording and communications can be performed stored and transmitted electronically.

For ease of exposition not every step or element of the present invention is described herein as part of software or computer system but those skilled in the art will recognize that each step or element may have a corresponding computer system or software component. Such computer system and or software components are therefore enabled by describing their corresponding steps or elements that is their functionality and are within the scope of the present invention.

It will be appreciated that the present invention has been described by way of example only and that the invention is not to be limited by the specific embodiments described herein. Improvements and modifications may be made to the invention without departing from the scope or spirit thereof.

