---

title: Method and apparatus for reporting a missile threat to a commercial aircraft
abstract: An automatic system is provided for alerting ground personnel as to the existence of a threat to commercial aircraft in which the threat is determined by a classified system, but in which the local area network employed by the military missile warning is isolated from an unclassified local network coupled to the aircraft's transponder which transmits the threat existence and status to ground personnel. The barrier to transmitting classified information involves both filtering between the classified LAN and unclassified LAN, the use of only discrete signaling lines in the classified LAN isolated by opto-electronics to provide physical separation between the two local area networks, and communications formatting which precludes the transmission of classified information across the barrier between the classified local area network and the unclassified local area network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08179288&OS=08179288&RS=08179288
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08179288
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081105
---
This application claims rights under 35 USC 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 062 237 filed Jan. 24 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with United States Government assistance under Contract No. HSSCHQ 04 C 00342 awarded by the Department of Homeland Security. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to the reporting of a threat to a commercial airliner from heat seeking missiles and more particularly to the reporting of the threat to ground personnel without divulging classified information.

As part of the Department of Homeland Security there is a requirement for emergency notification to air traffic controllers if an attack on a commercial aircraft is detected. For this purpose commercial airliners are provided with a sophisticated aircraft defense system which is capable of reliably detecting a missile threat. This aircraft defense system typically utilizes a missile warning system called the Common Missile Warning System CMWS developed for the military. The CMWS is a highly classified system and care must be taken not to divulge classified information when reporting missile threats to the ground.

Note that the missile warning system typically operates in the ultraviolet and senses the excited emissions from a rocket motor exhaust. The system employs sensors and a central processor that provides a UV warner to sense the missile as it approaches. UV radiation is used because there is not a great deal of background clutter in the UV to confuse the warners. Moreover rocket motors have a very high UV content.

The missile warning system utilizes a central processor running a classified counter measure effectiveness algorithm. This algorithm is used to reach a conclusion that a given high level of confidence applies to a potential threat meaning that a missile is in fact detected as opposed to a cigarette lighter or street lamp with a broken dome on it. The detection and classification of a threat involves highly classified techniques which identify the threat its location and whether or not there are multiple targets involved.

Upon reaching a conclusion that a threat exists a pointer tracker is directed to look at the detected object and to countermeasure the target using a jam head controller powered up with highly classified jam code information. This jam code information is transferred from the Electronics Control Unit ECU into a Jam Head Control Unit JHCU which in turn is coupled to a laser which has its output transmitted through the pointer tracker. All of the information used in detecting and counter measuring a missile threat is part of the highly classified Operational Flight Program carried in an Electronics Control Unit ECU. The ECU holds all of the classified OFP parameters in a User Data Module or UDM.

More particularly there is a Department of Homeland Security requirement to automatically and rapidly notify air traffic control that there is in fact a missile threat attacking a specific airliner. There is also a requirement to transmit not only just the fact of a warning but any information about where the aircraft is where the threat might be and to do so with an indication that is unambiguous in a secure fashion. The indication of a threat to a commercial airliner must be done automatically with no delays noting of course that any delay is critical.

If there is in fact a real threat one wants to alert the air traffic control system and does not want a man in the loop namely an individual who is interpreting any results. More particularly one does not want to rely on somebody looking out of the cockpit window to ascertain whether the threat is real or not. Thus the alerting of the personnel on the ground is to be automatic to identify the aircraft the location of the aircraft and the type of threat if in fact there is a credible threat. At the very minimum the system is to indicate that an incident has occurred against an aircraft at a particular location. Moreover the system itself must be designed for an extremely low false alarm rate one in literally millions of hours.

It will be appreciated that while there are many requirements for such a system the primary requirement is to be able to detect and report a threat has been encountered or that a threat has been defeated and to make ground personnel air traffic control or other agencies aware that something has occurred with a high degree of confidence.

In order to provide the high degree of confidence the military missile warning system is used with the system running at a highly classified level. The challenge is to integrate this highly classified military missile warning system into a commercial aircraft which has to run at a completely unclassified level when transmitting the data to a ground station.

Thus the problem is taking knowledge of the situation at the aircraft from a classified system and porting it to an unclassified system which then reports the information to the ground in an unclassified manner.

Note that in the missile warning system employed by the military there is a highly classified library of characteristics and missile threat types. Moreover the entire Operating Flight Program OFP has elements of the missile warning system which are classified in and of themselves. Thus it is not only the missile type but also how the entire operating flight program operates which is highly classified. As will be appreciated in the Operating Flight Program there are elements that are related to laser countermeasure systems which explicitly employ jam codes that are highly classified with the correlation of the jam code to the particular missile involving the most highly classified information of all.

It is also noted that the military missile warning system includes a countermeasure s effectiveness algorithm. This algorithm incorporated highly classified techniques and information. Moreover the algorithm that takes the outputs of the sensors that see a bloom and determines the existence and location of a missile are highly classified. Also the algorithm which determines that if the bloom still exists after the countermeasure that the missile turned away from the aircraft and is still burning is likewise highly classified. Also based on highly classified signature information that is analyzed by the missile warning system one can also know that the missile has been turned away. In short the countermeasure algorithms are highly classified and no portion of the algorithms are to be reported from the aircraft down to air traffic control.

There are various ways in which information utilized in the classified system can be inadvertently transmitted to the ground in an unclassified manner. This can be from signals leaking from a classified local area network used in the aircraft to provide missile warning onto an unclassified local area network used with the plane s transponder to report missile threat detection to the ground.

Therefore the problem is going from a classified system to be able to generate a report that is useful on the ground in which the reporting system operates on an unclassified network. As will be appreciated there are very strict rules and regulations for communications between classified and unclassified networks. It is covered by the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual NSPOM which is a government security document. This security document defines allowable connections between a classified local area network LAN and an unclassified local area network. The dilemma is that if one does not take precautions then by simply connecting these two LANs together one has brought the platform to the same level of security as the highly classified operational flight program for the aircraft.

By way of further background the alerting system for ground personnel is to establish that a real missile has been encountered or that one has defeated the missile. This information is vitally important to the response that the ground station takes. Does air traffic control close all of the air corridors for the East Coast for example Do they mobilize the FBI or some other organization in order to go looking for some of the shooters Thus while what has transpired is important to be transmitted to the ground care must be taken not to include highly classified information in this transmission.

Note a threat indicator can be a false alarm. However the false alarm rate must be very very low. It is also important to be able to tell ground personnel that the threat has been defeated and if the threat was not defeated then how much damage was done to the aircraft. Note that if the threat was defeated it is quite possible that a live missile could hit the ground somewhere. Depending on where the aircraft is at the time the ground impact might be a problem for a missile that was diverted off course due to the countermeasuring.

Moreover even for very low probability of threats occurring the air traffic control system or response agencies must take into account every time that a threat has been declared. If it turns out that there is a location somewhere on an aircraft that has false alarm indications then ground personnel may want to seek out the cause of the disturbance and eliminate it.

Note also that it is important to be able to note the number of threats. The geo location of the multiple threats could be indicated to the ground as well as information as to whether or not any of the threats are coming from the same direction. This indicates to ground personnel that one has a hot spot and ground personnel can potentially direct countermeasures to this hot spot. If the threats come from different directions it is possible that one can infer something about the ground operations of the perpetrators of the threat.

In order to be able to communicate the existence of a target or threat utilizing a classified system in the subject system one utilizes physical separation and either a filter that limits certain types of information that can go through from a classified LAN to an unclassified LAN or that the classified LAN will never provide the classified information to the unclassified LAN.

In order to ensure security between local area networks a physical separation between the two LANs is required meaning that they cannot be electrically connected by wires. In the subject invention in order to provide the physical separation the military missile warning system that employs a classified LAN does not use a general purpose bus but rather only discrete signal lines. Moreover each of these lines is isolated by opto isolators on each line to provide a physical barrier between the electrical signaling associated with missile detection and the electrical signaling used in reporting a missile threat to the ground using an unclassified LAN. That way classified information used by the aircraft s missile warning system cannot inadvertently leak onto the unclassified LAN used to generate the emergency notification EN.

Note that the opto isolation technique provides a physical barrier by translating electrical signals on a discrete signal line that is a part of the classified LAN into photons that get emitted reradiated absorbed and converted into electrical signals at the other side of the opto isolator. These converted signals are physically separated from the electrical signals that may contain classified information which means there will be no inadvertent leakage to the unclassified LAN due to the physical separation.

Thus the classified LAN used in the missile warning system and the unclassified LAN used for emergency notification reporting are fundamentally electrically isolated having no physical connection between the LANs.

Secondly in order to provide sufficient security between the classified LAN and the unclassified LAN filtering is accomplished in two different ways. First the bandwidth of the opto isolators is limited so that the ability to inadvertently translate sidebands in an AM or FM signal across the divide between the LANs is diminished. This is because the response of the connection does not support high bandwidth FM AM noise.

A second way to prevent classified data from being transmitted to the unclassified LAN is to prevent inadvertent data crossing the barrier using a predefined discrete interface. The interface strictly identifies what the states and modes are and what are the proper responses that are acceptable coming across from the classified LAN to the unclassified LAN. In one embodiment the interface filtering function is set by the platform description interface layer.

Signaling for the interface is controlled by an interface control such that only particular states or combinations of signals are permitted to go across the interface. They are allowed to do so only because they have a predefined meaning. If the communication between the LANs does not fall within a predetermined truth table or stable table identified in the ICD then it is not read meaning it is not interpreted as having meaningful data.

Thus in the subject invention there are three techniques to assure that classified data is not disseminated in an unclassified channel 1 physical partitioning 2 frequency response of the opto isolators and 3 the utilization of a predefined interface which controls the format and the response constituting the handshake across the barrier between the LANs. If the system can be set up to only respond in predefined ways as described by the protocol that has been defined in the truth table or state table within the interface control document then only that type of information is allowed to cross the barrier.

Since there is highly classified information in the missile warning system it is a requirement not to inadvertently provide such information on an unclassified communications link and most assuredly not to transmit the Operational Flight Program or jam codes. The task is to transmit only the conclusions that the missile warning system has arrived at as opposed to how the missile warning system arrived at the conclusions.

The NSPOM is clear about not allowing one to connect to classified LANs when staying at an unclassified level and the subject system is installed to make sure that there is no means whether it be intentional or unintentional to transmit the classified data to cross the barrier between the LANs.

Thus it is the purpose of the aircraft interface unit to isolate a classified LAN from the unclassified LAN in the aircraft referred to as the standard ARINC 429 bus.

Note in one embodiment that the ARINC 429 communication bus is coupled to a transponder to provide unclassified information by modulating an RF transmitter that is part of the transponder control unit. Thus the information about the threat its characteristics and the characteristics of the aircraft are transmitted to ground control through the transponder. As will be appreciated it is the preformatted ARINC 429 information that is passed to the transponder.

Note also that all of the countermeasures allocations analyses and evaluation of a countermeasure s effect is provided by a combination of the sensor subsystem and the Operational Flight Program running on the electronic control unit ECU embedded in the Operational Flight Program. The ECU is the electronic control unit that is part of the missile warning system.

As will be appreciated what is transmitted to the ground is information about the threat but not the highly classified information about how the information was derived. Note further that the subject system is a fully automated system with the only pilot control being to either enable to disable the system.

In summary an automatic system is provided for alerting ground personnel as to the existence of a threat to commercial aircraft in which the threat is determined by a classified system but in which the local area network employed by the military missile warning is isolated from an unclassified local network coupled to the aircraft s transponder which transmits the threat existence and status to ground personnel. The barrier to transmitting classified information involves both filtering between the classified LAN and unclassified LAN the use of only discrete signaling lines in the classified LAN isolated by opto electronics to provide physical separation between the two local area networks and communications formatting which precludes the transmission of classified information across the barrier between the classified local area network and the unclassified local area network.

Referring now to it is a requirement that commercial airliners here illustrated at be able to report to the ground namely to air traffic control that a missile has been launched towards the aircraft. It is the purpose of the subject invention to detect the presence of the incoming signal provide information about the incoming missile and report the fact of the detection of a missile threat to the ground.

This is done to be able to alert ground personnel as to the situation regarding a missile attack on an aircraft and also to permit ground personnel to be able to take whatever corrective action is appropriate given the information transmitted from the aircraft.

The aircraft transmits via its transponders the aircraft position information including position data or timing data and an indication in the form of an emergency notification EN that an event has occurred. The event s occurrence is in essence a declaration that a threat has been encountered the nature of the encounter whether or not the threat has been defeated and at least verbally a damage assessment if the threat has not been countered.

It is the purpose of the aircraft missile warning system to have an extremely low probability of false alarms and this is supplied by a military grade missile warning system. In one embodiment the Common Missile Warning System developed for the military is utilized to provide information that a threat has occurred.

As mentioned above the problem with utilizing military grade threat detection and analysis is that it involves classified information both as to the information loaded to enble the warning and also the transmission of data between various modules or units of the warning system. Typically the warning system also includes a countermeasure or nullification system that in one embodiment involves a jammer that is programmed with a jam code to cause the missile to go off course and not impact the aircraft.

Referring to in order for classified information to remain within the aircraft and not be transmitted to the ground it will be seen that from a conceptual point of view the aircraft is provided with an aircraft interface unit which is coupled to a warning sensor system which is in turn coupled to a jammer that produces a laser beam from a turret that is aimed towards the missile and is modulated with jam codes that cause the missile to go off course.

For the aircraft interface unit to work there are buses between units and which carry classified information. These buses are respectively labeled the classified target recognition bus and the classified jam codes bus which information is not ever to be placed on an unclassified bus.

The unclassified bus in this instance is an unclassified aircraft communications bus which is coupled between the aircraft interface unit and the aircraft transponders from which the emergency notification EN is transmitted via transponder antennas .

It is noted that classified communications occur as illustrated by bracket whereas unclassified communications are those which are supposed to be outputted from the aircraft interface unit to the aircraft transponder using an unclassified aircraft communications bus.

What is important in the subject invention is that there be isolation between the classified communications modules and the unclassified aircraft communications bus which is one embodiment is an ARINC 429 standard bus.

From a conceptual point of view the interface between the aircraft interface unit and the aircraft transponders is arranged such that no classified information can get across the barrier between the classified communications modules and the unclassified aircraft communications bus. Since both buses and contain only discrete signaling lines opto couplers at each end of a line provide the aforementioned physical isolation. Due to the physical isolation there is no through the air leakage of classified information to the unclassified LAN.

Moreover in one embodiment and as shown at the interface between the aircraft interface unit and the unclassified aircraft communications bus is a discrete interface used to eliminate contamination between the classified communications buses and the unclassified communications buses. The discrete interface is under control of the platform description layers which defines permissible transmissions. Interface thus performs in filtering function to assure that no information which contains classified information crosses between the classified communications modules and the unclassified aircraft communications bus.

By virtue of these safeguards all of the classified information contained in the aircraft interface unit the warning sensor system and the jammer are prevented from crossing the barrier leaving the emergency notification message devoid of classified information.

Referring now to what is seen is the executable view of the system interface control diagram which involves sensor subsystem aircraft interface unit and the jammer constituting a nullification subsystem.

Note that the aircraft interface unit is coupled to a flight deck control panel with interconnections between the flight deck control panel the aircraft interface unit and a so called A kit segment which constitutes the interface between the aircraft its warning sensors and the transponder which connects to an antenna that couples the emergency notification to a ground station here shown at .

Note that the nullification subsystem includes a jam head control unit JHCU a laser transmitter unit LTU an optical bench assembly OBA and a pointer tracker P Th .

It is noted that in the sensor subsystem there are a number of sensors in one case four in number which have their outputs coupled an electronic control unit ECU in which the ECU holds all of the classified OFP parameters in a user data module UDM .

More particularly with respect to the system of and as an introduction the Counter MANPADS Advanced Threat Infrared Countermeasures Common Missile Warning System ATIRCM CMWS Countermeasures Set includes countermeasure functions for the Counter MANPADS system that consists of two major subsystems the sensor CMWS subsystem and the nullification ATIRCM subsystem . The sensor subsystem includes Electronic Control Unit ECU and four missile warning sensors. The nullification subsystem includes Jam Head Control Unit JHCU an Infrared Jam Head and a High Power Multi Band Laser HPMBL . In this configuration the HPMBL consists of the Laser Control Unit LCU and a Laser Transmitter Assembly. The Laser Transmitter Assembly itself is composed of a Laser Transmitter Unit LTU and the Optical Bench Assembly OBA . The Optical Bench Assembly contains a Beam Steering Electronic Interface and Reference Laser. All of the above are Line Replaceable Units or LRUs.

For installation onto a commercial aircraft two additional Line Replaceable Units LRUs are introduced that provide conditioned interfaces with the host aircraft. These LRUs are part of the installation s Infrastructure Segment and are designed to allow for the basic operation and maintenance of the Counter MANPADS system. The infrastructure LRUs are the Flight Deck Control Panel and the Aircraft Interface Unit AIU .

As to Counter MANPADS Security the standard Counter MANPADS system contains three LRUs that have processors capable of processing data and algorithms. These are ECU JHCU and AIU . Two of the LRUs the ECU and the JHCU process data and algorithms up to the Secret level. The AIU does not contain or process any classified data or algorithms.

As to the Electronic Control Unit and Jam Head Control Unit Classified Processing the majority of the memory for the ECU and the JHCU is volatile RAM. Classified information is loaded into volatile RAM only at any time during processing. The processors also contain a small non volatile flash memory that contains system boot up routines capable of loading software from a classified removable flash hard drive called User Data Module UDM into the processor volatile memory. The software is designed to ensure that only the unclassified boot up routines are stored in non volatile memory.

As to the Aircraft Interface Unit Unclassified Processing the AIU is designed to provide the interfaces necessary for installation into commercial aircraft. The AIU design utilizes a Commercial Off The Shelf COTS computer processor that contains both volatile and non volatile memory. The interfaces with the Sensor and Nullification subsystems are specifically maintained as discrete signals incapable of intelligent communication to the classified Line Replaceable Units. The interfaces with the aircraft are composed of discrete signals and two ARINC 429 transponder communication channels. The software for the communication channels is designed to ensure that only one new AIU constructed message Hijack Message is transmitted along with other non altered messages to the transponder when commanded via an ECU discrete signal.

An Aircraft Interface Unit Functional Overview is now provided. The AIU consists of elements that provide operational support functions but not core countermeasure functions. These AIU functions include 

As to the AIU Characteristics a high level description of the AIU interfaces with LRUs internal and external to the Counter MANPADS system is shown in .

The AIU s main responsibility is to bridge between the commercial aircraft systems and the Sensor and Nullification Subsystems originally designed for the military. The AIU allows for central control of the system power and built in test initiation and reporting. It also generates the Emergency Notification EN message and interfaces to the aircraft transponder so the EN message can be sent to ground stations notifying authorities that a threat has been engaged. Hardware logic in the AIU helps protect ground crews by determining when it is safe to allow the laser to fire. The AIU also helps extend the system s Mean Time Before Failure by enabling Sleep Mode. Lastly the AIU enables the flight crew and maintainers to interface the system.

As to Message Traffic involved in the Sensor and Nullification Subsystem the AIU does not contain any message based communication lines with either the ECU or the JHCU. The only Interfaces between the AIU and the Sensor Nullification subsystem are discrete signal lines. The following sections describe each discrete signal.

Table I lists the discrete signals from the ECU to the AIU. Overall behaviors and requirements are governed by the Counter MANPADS system specification. The list below provides a general description along with a System Specification traceability identifier column.

As to AIU to ECU Signals Messages Table II lists the discrete signals from the AIU to the ECU. Overall behaviors and requirements are governed by the Counter MANPADS system specification. The list below provides a general description along with a System Specification traceability identifier column.

As to AIU to JHCU Signals Messages Table III lists the discrete signals from the AIU to the JHCU. Overall behaviors and requirements are governed by the Counter MANPADS system specification. The list below provides a general description along with a System Specification traceability identifier column.

As can be seen the only bus between AIU and A Kit segment are the buses and with bus coupling the flight deck control panel to the AIU and with bus coupling an aircraft systems unit to AIU .

As shown the aircraft system unit has a transponder control head and a transponder coupled to an antenna which transmits signals from the aircraft to an external environment including a ground station .

It is noted that those classified buses which could contain sensitive information are generally illustrated by which by their coloration indicate that classified data may exist on these buses.

For the security of the system to be maintained between a classified level and the unclassified level of buses and the AIU and attendant circuitry provides for the physical isolation throughout the opto couplers and the filtering described above.

Note that the main responsibility of the AIU is to bridge between the commercial aircraft systems and the sensor and nullification subsystems originally designed for the military. The AIU allows for central control of the system power and built in test initiation and reporting. It also generates the emergency notification message and interfaces to the aircraft transponder so that the emergency notification message can be sent to ground stations notifying authorities that a threat has been engaged. As an aside hardware logic in the AIU helps to protect ground crews by determining when it is safe to allow the laser to fire.

Referring now to what is shown is a System to Aircraft Interface block diagram. Here aircraft interface unit is shown connected to the sensor subsystem the nullification system and the A kit segment with all of the interconnections being discrete lines and therefore constituting discrete buses as opposed to a generalized bus. Note each of the discrete lines has opto couplers at each end.

Because of the use of discrete buses it is possible to limit the information that goes from the aircraft interface unit to the A kit segment .

Of particular note are the standard ARINC 429 buses and . Discrete switch positions on bus LED activation on bus engagement cues on bus and aircraft parameters on bus do not contain any classified information.

Referring now to the emergency ground notification architecture is shown in a block diagram form in which AIU is coupled to transponder control head and thence to transponders and antennas to one of two transponder transmitters and which have their outputs respectively coupled by relays and to the indicated transponders. Relays and couple the outputs of the respective transponders to receivers and with the entire process for each of the two transmission links under the control of AIU processors and respectively through associated logic and .

Referring now to the AIU data flow is illustrated in which AIU has handshake data coupled to flight deck control panel aircraft transponder transponder control head aircraft weight on wheels oil pressure and LSI logic flight data recorder maintenance module and AIU panel . Power control on off is provided over discrete buses respectively to JHCU LCU a point and track head ECU and a pod that has associated overtemp undertemp critical status and power control on off sleep enable and laser safety interlock functions.

Here again it can be seen that the only interface between AIU and transponder control head and transponders are on buses and with the barrier between the AIU and these buses constituting the barrier between the classified information in the system and an unclassified portion of the system.

Referring now to it will be appreciated that the only portion of the warning system and the reporting system under the control of the pilot is the transponder control head which includes an ATC code display a transponder LRU selection and ATC code selection switches . It is noted that through this control head the only element of the system that can be controlled is the enabling or disabling of the entire system. The pilot is not permitted control of this automatic system and therefore the safeguards associated with the military level apparatus cannot be altered by personnel aboard the aircraft other than to turn it on or turn if off.

Referring now to what is shown is a flow chart of the management of the emergency notification. Note that the emergency notification involves determination of an active control channel listening for messages validation of the messages the provision of stop bit running if needed the replacement of the 4096 code with the emergency notification code the setting of a parity bit to odd or even the bypass of both control channels the sending of the emergency notification message along with any other messages and the sending of a validated message.

The message format is illustrated at whereas the message notification protocol is indicated at box by the initiation of the emergency notification a decision box which ascertains if the ground is to be notified. If the ground is to be notified relays B and B are set respectively to one and zero as indicated at and as illustrated at the system listens for active control channels and if there is an active control channel as indicated by decision box the relays are set B to zero and B to one as illustrated at which results in the receipt of ARINC standard messages at followed by a message validation at a determination of a valid message at and a determination of a bit running at resulting in a stop bit task the clearing of the bit running flag and the replacement of code 4096 with the emergency notification code label at . If there is no bit running then the system replaces the 4096 code with the emergency notification code label. Then at a parity bit is set.

When the parity bit is set relay A is set to one and relay B is set to one as illustrated at followed by a decision block which ascertains if the ground notification active reset has been reset. If not then the emergency notification message at is coupled to a box which verifies that the message sent is the emergency notification. A decision is made at block determining whether the message is valid and if yes a delay of 10 milliseconds is imposed at . If not a system fail LED is illustrated at .

On the other hand if the ground notification activation has been reset then relay A is set to zero A is set to zero B is set to zero and B is set to zero as illustrated at .

If the decision at decision block indicates that active channel B is not available then relay A is set to one and relay A is set to zero as illustrated at . The system then listens for an active control panel as illustrated at and if there is an active control channel A available as illustrated at decision block relay A is set to zero and relay A is set to one as illustrated at . If there is no active channel A then the AIU fail indicator is set at .

What has been described is an emergency notification system which reports an incident through the transmission of unclassified data to the ground using the isolation techniques described above.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

