---

title: Technique to classify data displayed in a user interface based on a user defined classification
abstract: Disclosed are methods and systems for classifying data displayed in a user interface based on a user defined classification and generating the user interface to display the data based on the user defined classification. The method includes importing a folder structure from a folder structure container wherein the folder structure depicts a user defined classification of the data. The data displayed in the user interface is mapped to a folder in the folder structure and a user interface object in the user interface is created for the folder. Furthermore, the mapped data is presented in the user interface object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075871&OS=09075871&RS=09075871
owner: SAP SE
number: 09075871
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20081224
---
The invention generally relates to the field of generating user interfaces. More particularly the invention relates to classifying data displayed in a user interface based on a user defined classification.

Due to the large volume of the content available in information systems these days there is a need to display the content to end users in a structured and intuitive way. For example the information on a news website has to be classified before it can be displayed to the user. So the news regarding software companies may appear under the category News Industry News By Industry Infotech Software in a particular news website. In another news website it may be classified as News Technology Software . Such classifications however may not agree with a user s own preferences or interests. Therefore it may be time consuming for the user to find the news of his interest in different websites.

While content classification is an important tool to manage complexity very often it can become the source of further complexity to the end user. Consider another situation wherein a company portal containing organizational information is migrated from one version to another or is frequently updated causing the information to be moved from one category to another. This causes inconvenience to the employees as they have to search for the information. The paucity of time available to employees does not allow them to spend time learning the content classification mechanism to use it effectively. As a result inefficiency in information dissemination and productivity losses occur.

Personalization features available in the current user interfaces is typically limited to features such as changing the position of the user interface elements changing the colors of the user interface elements changing the font of the text and changing a type of the charts displayed. Basically the personalization feature is just limited to the features that are provided by the user interface itself and cannot accommodate all preferences of a user.

Described are methods and systems for classifying data displayed in a user interface based on a user defined classification and generating the user interface to display the data based on the user defined classification. The method includes importing a folder structure from a folder structure container wherein the folder structure depicts a user defined classification of the data including any new user interface objects for displaying the data according to user preferences. The data displayed in the user interface is mapped to the folder structure the user interface object in the user interface is created for the folder and the mapped data is presented in the user interface object.

The system includes a folder structure container having a folder structure depicting the user defined classification. An importing tool imports the folder structure and provides the folder structure to a mapping tool. The mapping tool extracts data objects containing the data displayed in the user interface and provides them to the user. The user may map the data objects to a folder in the folder structure and regenerate the user interface to display the mapped data according to the folder structure.

The user may find it tedious or time consuming to navigate through three levels of tabs to find the news that is of interest to him. For example to read the news under Auto category the user has to navigate through all the three levels of tabs as follows News first level tab News By Industry second level tab Auto third level tab . The user may be interested in reading the news quite often. So the user may prefer to obtain it with as less navigation as possible. In order to do the above the user may want to reclassify the news displayed in the web page so as to read the news that is of interest to him in an easier way.

In an embodiment the user may reclassify the information by creating bookmarks or links for example in the Favorites folder of a web browser. The user may create a link such as Auto in the Favorites folder and link to a uniform resource locator URL of the auto news presented in News News By Industry Auto category in web page . But the problem with this type of classification is that the Auto link would be available only in the system in which the link is created.

In another embodiment the user could use a personalization feature in the user interface to organize the information. But the personalization feature in the user interface is typically limited to features such as changing the position of tab controls changing the color of tab controls adding more tabs in the user interface by choosing from a list of tabs provided by the personalization feature changing the font of the information changing tab controls to tree control and changing the layout of the user interface. So the personalization feature may not allow the user to present the information displayed under a tab control in another tab control of his choice. For example the personalization feature does not allow the user to present the news displayed in News News By Industry Auto tab control in new tabs My News Auto .

The mapping tool displays the classification of the web page according to a source classification and folders from the folder structure depicting the user classification . In an embodiment the mapping tool obtains source classification by reading a user interface metadata file for example an extensible markup language XML file having the details of user interface objects of the web page . The user may map the classification from source classification to the folders in user classification using a Map To button. The user may remove the mapping using the Unmap button. In the mapping tool the News By Industry classification from source classification is mapped to My News folder in the user classification as depicted by the mapping . The mapping causes the news displayed under News News By Industry category in the web page to now be displayed under the My News section of the user classification in a newly generated web page. Similarly the News News By Industry Auto classification is mapped to My News Auto News Economy to MyNews Economy News Economy Foregin Trade to MyNews and News Infotech News Infotech Hardware and News Infotech Hardware to Tech News .

The source classification has corresponding data objects provided by an application associated with the web page . The data objects contain the data to be displayed in the user interface. For example News News By Industry category has a corresponding data object news.newsByIndustry that contains the data news . The data object is obtained by accessing an application programming interface of the application.

In one embodiment when the folder structure is imported in to the mapping tool corresponding data objects are created for the mapped folders in the folder structure to provide the data to be displayed in the reconfigured web page. After the data objects are created the mapping is executed in the application by mapping the data object of a classification in the source classification to the data object of the folder in user classification . For example in the mapping news.newsByIndustry data object is mapped to the newly created My News data object. The tab objects in the user interface obtain the data to be displayed in the user interface from the data objects. Obtaining news from a URL is not always reliable because if the classification of news in the user interface changes the URL of the news also changes. For example if the original URL of news under classification News News By Industry is http timesofworld.com news newsbyindustry index.html and the classification changes to News World News By Industry the URL may also change to http timesofworld.com world news newsbyindustry index.html . This makes the original URL obsolete. This problem can be eliminated by obtaining the data from the data object instead of the URL.

A user interface object is created for the mapped folders in the user classification . For example the tab My News is created for the folder My News . The user interface object represents the user defined classification in My News web page . The user interface object has the name of the folder it is created for.

Because of the mapping the tab My News displays news same as news since News By Industry in source classification is mapped to My News folder in user classification . The tab My News obtains the news from the data object My News . The tabs My News Economy and My News Foreign Trade in the My News web page displays the news originally displayed under News Economy and News Economy Foreign Trade respectively in the web page .

In an embodiment the folder My News in user classification is created as a My News tab in My News web page . In another embodiment the folder My News may be created as a node in a tree hierarchy or an item in the menu based on how the classifications are originally displayed in the web page .

The tabs Tech News Hardware and Tech News Software in the Tech News web page display the news originally displayed under News Infotech Hardware and News Infotech Software respectively in web page .

At process block the data displayed in the user interface such as web page is mapped to a folder in the folder structure for example folder structure imported into the mapping tool . The mapping tool obtains the data objects containing the data displayed in the web page and performs the mapping between the data objects and the folder in the user classification . The user may map more than one data in source classification to a folder in the user classification . But a data in source classification may not be mapped to more than one folder in the user classification .

At process block a user interface object for example a tab object is created in the web page for the mapped folders in the user classification . The tab object represents the user classification of data. The type of the user interface object created depends on how the classification is presented in the web page . If the web page had displayed the classification of data as a tree hierarchy instead of tabs then a node in a tree hierarchy is created for the folder. In another embodiment if the classifications are displayed as a menu then an item in a menu is created for the folder.

At process block the mapped data is displayed in newly created user interface object for example tab My News in My News web page . Now based on the mapping the tab My News displays news which was originally displayed as news under News News By Industry category in web page .

The My News web page may be customized to enable or disable user defined classification of the data displayed. Also the tabs created based on the user defined classification for example My News and Tech News may be differentiated from the original tabs Home and News in a number of ways including generating the My News and Tech News in different font color tab shape etc. In another embodiment the My News web page may be customized to have only the tabs My News and Tech News and not the original tabs.

An importing tool imports the folder structure from the folder structure container and provides the folder structure to a mapping tool . The mapping tool obtains an original classification of data in the user interface such as web page and provides them to user as source classification . Using the mapping tool the user may map the data in source classification to a folder in the user classification . The mapping tool executes the mapping by extracting a data object containing the data and maps it to the folder in the user classification . A classification creation engine obtains the mapping from the mapping tool and creates a user interface object for example a tab object such as My News representing the mapping. A user interface engine generates a user interface for example My News web page and displays the mapped data under the newly created tab My News .

The system also includes a search engine that performs a search in the application to retrieve news related to or containing a keyword for example tech news which is a name of the tab Tech News . The search result is displayed in the user interface for example search web page . In an embodiment the search may be restricted to a data store within the application. In another embodiment the search may be performed outside the application as well. Examples of search engine include a search engine of the application google search provided by Google yahoo search provided by Yahoo and MSN search provided by Microsoft .

Embodiments of the invention may include various steps as set forth above. The steps may be embodied in machine executable program code which causes a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform certain steps. Alternatively these steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components.

Embodiments of the present invention may also be provided as a machine readable medium for storing the machine executable instructions. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any other type of machine readable media suitable for tangibly storing electronic instructions. The machine readable medium can provide the instructions stored therein to a computer system comprising a processor capable of reading and executing the instructions to implement the method steps described herein.

It should be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. These references are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined as suitable in one or more embodiments of the invention.

Throughout the foregoing description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. For instance a web browser was used in many of the examples above to illustrate and describe the principles of the invention but the invention is not limited to these examples. The detailed description as set forth above includes descriptions of method steps. However one skilled in the art will understand that the order of the steps set forth above is meant for the purposes of illustration only and the claimed invention is not meant to be limited only to the specific order in which the steps are set forth. Accordingly the scope and spirit of the invention should be judged in terms of the claims which follow.

