---

title: Systems and methods for mobile transactions
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, systems and methods for facilitating financial transactions over a network include communicating with a user via a kiosk device and a mobile communication device over the network. In various implementations, the systems and methods include accessing at least one account related to the user, depositing finds into the account based on a cash deposit request received from the user at the kiosk device, and transferring funds from the account to one or more other accounts, related and/or unrelated to the user, based on a fund transfer request received from the user via the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930272&OS=08930272&RS=08930272
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08930272
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
The present invention generally relates to network transactions and more particularly to facilitating mobile transactions with cash based funding.

In many online environments a user navigates through selectable pages of service provider sites to view information resources process financial transactions and or communicate with other users. In the recent past cellular phones have been adapted to navigate communication networks such as the Internet.

Generally in some parts of the world there are communities of people that use cash to exchange goods and services instead of using banking institutions and services for these types of financial transactions. However some of these communities use cellular phones.

Presently there is a need to provide the service of a banking institution to those that transact business with cash. As such there is need to combine the service of banking with the common use of cellular phones.

Systems and methods disclosed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments facilitate financial transactions via a mobile communication device such as a cellular phone with cash based funding via a kiosk device such as a machine having a receptacle adapted to accept monetary funds such as cash as a physical input. In various implementations a user may fund an account by depositing cash into a kiosk machine or in person at a store or other physical location. After depositing the cash the user may proceed with monetary fund transfers into and out of an account related to the user using the mobile communication device e.g. cellular phone .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure a system for facilitating financial transactions over a network includes a first component adapted to communicate with a user via a kiosk device and a mobile communication device over the network and a second component adapted to access an account related to the user. The second component is adapted to deposit funds into the account based on a cash deposit request received from the user at the kiosk device. The second component is adapted to transfer funds from the account to one or more other accounts based on a fund transfer request received from the user via the mobile communication device.

In various implementations user identification information may be passed with the cash deposit request from the kiosk device to the second component via the network and the first component wherein the user identification information is used by the second component to verify an identify of the user and access the account related to the user. Similarly user identification information may be passed with the fund transfer request from the mobile communication device to the second component via the network and the first component wherein the user identification information is used by the second component to verify an identify of the user and access the account related to the user.

In various implementations the kiosk device comprises an automated user interface such as a computer adapted to interface with the network and communicate with the second component via the network and the first component. The kiosk device may include a user interface application adapted to allow the user to communicate with the second component via the first component and the network and a receptacle adapted to receive cash from the user for deposit in the account. The mobile communication device comprises a cellular phone adapted to communicate with the second component via the network and the first component. The system comprises a server adapted to interface with the network and communicate with the kiosk device and the mobile communication device via the network.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for facilitating financial transactions over a network includes communicating with a user via a kiosk device over the network and a mobile communication device over the network and accessing an account related to the user. The method includes depositing funds into the account based on a cash deposit request received from the user at the kiosk device. The method includes transferring funds from the account to one or more other accounts based on a fund transfer request received from the user via the mobile communication device.

In various implementations the method may include receiving a login request from the user via the kiosk device and verifying an identity of the user wherein user identification information is passed with the cash deposit request from the kiosk device. The method may include receiving a login request from the user via the mobile communication device and verifying an identity of the user wherein user identification information is passed with the fund transfer request from the mobile communication device.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to facilitating financial transactions via a mobile communication device such as a cellular phone with cash based funding via a kiosk device such as a machine that accepts monetary funds such as cash as a physical input. In various implementations a user may fund an account by depositing cash into a kiosk machine or in person at a store or other physical location. After depositing the cash the user may proceed with transfers into and out of an account related to the user using a mobile communication device e.g. a cellular phone . In one aspect a user profile may be created using the data obtained from cellular phone activity.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure enable people in communities without access to services of a banking institution to use the financial services of an online service provider via mobile communion devices including cellular phones. The user is able to fund an account with the online service provider by depositing cash into a kiosk device or machine at a physical location which may be accomplished in various ways such as the user directly depositing cash in the kiosk device or machine or giving the cash to a cashier in a store or shop to deposit the cash in the kiosk device or machine. Once the user has funded an account via cash deposit the user may then use the funds in the account to transact business via the user s cellular phone such as transferring cash to other accounts related to the user and or other accounts unrelated to the user. These transactions may be used by the online service provider to create a user profile based on the activity from the cellular phone.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. mobile cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

The kiosk device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In various examples the kiosk device may be implemented as a wired and or wireless communication device e.g. an automated user interface device for a user e.g. a client or customer to communicate with the network such as the Internet and or mobile network. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments the kiosk device may be referred to as a user device client device or a customer device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The kiosk device in one embodiment comprises a machine e.g. automated teller machine ATM adapted to directly accept monetary funds e.g. cash from a person such as the user . In one implementation the kiosk device may be used by an operator in person at a store or other physical location wherein the operator may receive monetary funds from the user for deposit into the kiosk device . As such the kiosk device includes a cash receptacle not shown to receive cash for deposit in an account related to the user . In another implementation the user is able to input data and information into an input component e.g. a keyboard of the kiosk device to provide user information with a transaction request such as a cash deposit request. The user information may include user identification information user account number and a user password which is described in greater detail herein.

The kiosk device includes one or more user interface applications which may be used by the user to conduct financial transactions over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented as an ATM application to deposit cash into an account over the network . In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more service provider servers via the network .

The kiosk device in various embodiments may include one or more other applications to provide additional features to the user . For example these other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

The kiosk device in one embodiment may include at least one network interface component NIC adapted to communicate with the network . In various examples the network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

The kiosk device in one embodiment may include one or more kiosk identifiers which may be implemented as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the kiosk device and or various other appropriate identifiers. The kiosk identifier may include attributes related to the kiosk device such as identification information e.g. a kiosk serial number a location address Global Positioning System GPS coordinates a network identification number etc. and network information e.g. network owner network provider network administrator network security information etc. . In various implementations the kiosk identifier may be passed with network traffic data and information to the service provider server and the kiosk identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate one or more network transactions of the user with one or more particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

The mobile communication device in one embodiment may be utilized by the user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example the user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server via the mobile communication device . In various implementations the mobile communication device may include at least one of a wireless cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA satellite phone etc. In one aspect it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the mobile communication device may be integrated as part of a client device not shown such as a personal computer without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In various implementations a user profile may be created using data and information obtained from cell phone activity over the network . Cell phone activity transactions may be used by the service provider server to create at least one user profile for the user based on activity from the mobile communication device e.g. cell phone . The user profile may be updated with each financial and or information transaction e.g. payment transaction purchase transaction etc. achieved through use of the mobile communication device . In various aspects this may include the type of transaction and or the location information from the mobile communication device . As such the profile may be used for recognizing patterns of potential fraud setting transaction limits on the user etc.

The mobile communication device in one embodiment may include a user identifier as one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information e.g. a user name password photograph image biometric id address social security number phone number email address etc. and banking information e.g. banking institution credit card issuer user account numbers security information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with network traffic data of the user to the service provider server and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the user with a user account maintained by the service provider server .

In various implementations the user is able to input data and information into an input component e.g. a keyboard of the mobile communication device to provide user information with a transaction request such as a fund transfer request. The user information may include user identification information user account number and a user password which is described in greater detail herein.

The service provider server in various embodiments may be maintained by an online service provider which is adapted to provide processing for financial transactions on behalf of the user . The service provider server includes at least one processing application which may be adapted to interact with the kiosk device and the mobile communication device via the network to facilitate financial transactions. In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain a plurality of user accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with individual users including the user . For example account information may include balance information fund transfer information deposit information etc. In another example account information may include identification information and or private financial information of the user such as account numbers identifiers passwords phone numbers credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions between the user of the kiosk device and the service provider server . It should be appreciated that the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account.

The service provider server in various embodiments may include at least one network interface component NIC adapted to communicate with the network including the network interface component of the kiosk device and the mobile communication device . In various implementations the network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

The service provider server in various embodiments may include one or more databases e.g. internal and or external databases for storing and tracking information related to financial transactions between particular users such as the user and the service provider server . For example the databases may provide an historical survey of financial transactions between the user and the service provider . As such in one implementation the processing application may be configured to track log store and access financial transaction information and provide this information to the processing application for analysis and maintenance.

In various embodiments the kiosk device the mobile communication device and the service provider server may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address . In this regard the user may interface with the kiosk device and or the mobile communication device via the network to facilitate financial transactions with the service provider server which is discussed in greater detail herein.

Referring to the method involves the user interacting with the kiosk device to login to the service provider server block . In one example this may involve the user accessing a service provider site via the kiosk device which is adapted to communicate with the server provider server via the network . The user may provide an identification number and password to login to the service provider server . In one aspect the kiosk device serves as a gateway to the network for cash based funding of an account related to the user .

Next the user accesses a user account in the account database of the server provider server block . In one example this may involve the user selecting an appropriate user account after login. Next the user may select a financial transaction for processing such as a cash deposit into the kiosk device block . In one example this may involve the user inserting cash into the kiosk device when prompted by the kiosk device block . Next the user obtains a transaction receipt from the kiosk device block . In one example the transaction receipt indicates the amounted of cash deposited and the date and time of the cash deposit.

Referring to the method involves the user interacting with the mobile communication device to login to the service provider server block . In one example this may involve the user accessing a service provider site via the mobile communication device which is adapted to communicate with the server provider server via the network . The user may provide an identification number and password to login to the service provider server . Next the user accesses a user account in the account database of the server provider server block . In one example this may involve the user selecting an appropriate user account after login.

Next the user may select a financial transaction for processing such as a monetary fund transfer from the accessed user account to one or more other accounts block . In various examples this may involve the user transferring monetary funds from the user account to one or more other accounts related and or unrelated to the user block . In one aspect the mobile communication device serves as a gateway to the network for monetary fund transfers between accounts specified by the user .

Next the user obtains a transaction receipt from the service provider server block . In various examples the transaction receipt may be in the form of a text message and or email and the transaction receipt indicates the amount of monetary funds transferred the account numbers involved in the monetary fund transfers and the date and time of the monetary fund transfers.

Referring to the service provider server receives a login request via the kiosk device block verifies the identity of the user block and accesses at least one account related to the user in the account database block . In one implementation the user interacts with the kiosk device to provide an identification number and password to the kiosk device for login to the service provider server via the network . The service provider server receives the identification number and password with the login request and verifies the identity of the user for example by comparing the identification number and password provided by the user with the login request via the kiosk device with an identification number and password stored as part of an account related to the user in the account database . Next the service provider server locates and accesses at least one user account related to the user based on the identification information provided by the user as passed with the login request via the kiosk device .

Optionally the service provider server may determine whether the user is an existing user having an established user account for example by checking a user account list in the account database . If the user does not have an established user account then the service provider server may prompt the user to establish a user account with the service provider sever by providing user identification and financial information via the kiosk device .

Next after login and account verification the service provider server receives a transaction request for a monetary fund deposit e.g. cash deposit from the user via the kiosk device block . Next the service provider server processes the transaction request for the cash deposit block . In one example the service provider server accesses the user account related to the user and credits the user account with the user deposited cash funds as received by the kiosk device . Next the service provider server verifies the cash deposit block . In one example the service provider server may communicate with the kiosk device to verify e.g. authenticate that the indicated amount of cash deposited by the user was actually received and counted by the kiosk device . Next the service provider server updates the user account associated to the user to reflect the cash deposit block . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the service provider server may cancel the online information transaction at any point in the process if it is determined that the user enters wrong information or the user is trying to access information with criminal intent.

Referring to the service provider server receives a login request via the mobile communication device block verifies the identity of the user block and accesses at least one account related to the user in the account database block . In one implementation the user interacts with the mobile communication device to provide an identification number and password to the mobile communication device for login to the service provider server via the network . The service provider server receives the identification number and password with the login request and verifies the identity of the user for example by comparing the identification number and password provided by the user with the login request via the kiosk device with an identification number and password stored as part of an account related to the user in the account database . Next the service provider server locates and accesses at least one user account related to the user based on the identification information provided by the user as passed with the login request via the mobile communication device .

Optionally the service provider server may determine whether the user is an existing user having an established user account for example by checking a user account list in the account database . If the user does not have an established user account then the service provider server may prompt the user to establish a user account with the service provider sever by providing user identification and financial information via the mobile communication device .

Next after login and account verification the service provider server receives a transaction request for a monetary fund transfer between accounts from the user via the mobile communication device block . Next the service provider server processes the transaction request for the monetary fund transfer block . In one example the service provider server accesses the user account related to the user and debits the user account for credit to another user account or some other account indicated by the user . Next the service provider server verifies that the monetary funds have been transferred as requested by the user block . In one example the service provider server may communicate with other financial organizations to verify e.g. authenticate that the indicated amount of monetary funds transferred was actually received and credited to the proper accounts. In another example verification of monetary fund transfer may occur within the service provider server if the accounts are in the account database . Next the service provider server updates the user account associated to the user to reflect the monetary fund transfer block . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the service provider server may cancel the online information transaction at any point in the process if it is determined that the user enters wrong information or the user is trying to access information with criminal intent.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card such as the network interface components as discussed in reference to display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure.

Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

