---

title: Method and system for implementing a complete SAP system landscape on IBM System i
abstract: A method of implementing a complete SAP system landscape on IBM System i is provided. This method involves preselecting at least one value-added reseller (VAR) for participation in implementing the complete SAP system landscape on IBM System i. The VAR then selects values for flexible parameters according to needs of a customer. The flexible parameters include languages for i5/OS and SAP, an amount of SAP ERC Central Component (ECC) systems ranging from one to three, an inclusion of a SAP Solution Manager, a client landscape, a configuration of SAP systems, and a level of software stack. The level of software stack includes a layer of the SAP systems, a layer implementing country-specific configuration, a layer implementing industry-specific configuration, and a layer of VAR added value. Media is created and implemented with the specified content at a factory using standard SAP procedures. A full backup of the SAP systems is then created using standard i5/OS operating system imaging. The media is restored by the VAR using the standard i5/OS operating system imaging at multiple customer sites. The VAR only need be an i5/OS system administrator having no knowledge about SAP on IBM System i to perform the operation. The VAR communicates feedback to the factory for improving the specified content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08166457&OS=08166457&RS=08166457
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08166457
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
The present invention generally relates to a method and system for implementing a complete SAP pre configured system landscape in one step and more particularly to a method and system for implementing a complete SAP system landscape in one day using only standard i5 OS system administration knowledge.

SAP software is commonly implemented in many different types of business environments. In order to use SAP s software productively the implementers have to go through many steps of planning preparation deployment post installation configuration and customization. Today s software consists of many units that have to be installed and updated separately. As systems have become integrated software is no longer standalone but part of a bigger system landscape.

In the case of implementing SAP on IBM System i both i5 OS and SAP system landscape knowledge are necessary. This skill is not very widespread in many parts of the world. Installation and patching of the operating system database and SAP application software takes several weeks before the system can be used productively. The process is fragile and error prone. All implementation work for the operating system and database on IBM System i is usually done by an IBM System i system administrator. After that a SAP on IBM System i certified consultant implements the desired SAP system landscape and configures the system according to the customer s needs.

The installation process for SAP on IBM System i for the current release SAP ERP 2005 SAP ECC 6.0 SAP NetWeaver 7.0 requires intimate knowledge of the necessary tools to implement the system. The standard installation for SAP systems is based on the SAP owned tool SAPinst . As IBM System i provides no graphical user interface SAPinst in its version for SAP ERP 2005 cannot run directly on IBM System i but requires a helper tool TMKSVR. For IBM System i SAPinst has been adjusted to use a client server architecture where SAPinst sends requests to the TMKSVR and the TMKSVR then forwards those requests to the System i host.

The procedure has to be repeated once per SAP system that has to be installed in the system landscape. SAP recommends a minimum system landscape of three SAP systems per product a development system to implement changes a quality assurance system to control and test the changes and a productive system where end users work on. In addition for support reasons SAP has made an additional separate SAP Solution Manager system mandatory. shows the SAP system landscape as recommended by SAP.

Another exemplary concern of implementing SAP on IBM system i regards disk imaging. Creating complete disk images of all hard drives of a computer is a common backup procedure. IBM i5 OS provides several save and restore related procedures in its GO SAVE and GO RESTORE menus.

However the SAP Best Practices development team provides an image containing one SAP system as opposed to a complete system landscape with one specific pre configured SAP Best Practice package for demo purposes. Value added resellers hereinafter VARs have no influence on this image. That is VARs knowledge about the customers of their region or industry is not used.

The Demo Image is only available to customers that already run SAP on Microsoft SQL Server for licensing reasons. Images containing SAP software are typically only available for Windows or Unix based operating systems. The object based architecture integrated database and binary incompatibility prevent the image content to be executed on IBM System i.

In addition images are usually provided containing only one standalone system to be set up for demonstration purposes to explain features of the SAP applications or to explore their functional scope but not for productive use. Further as the systems are prepared for demo purposes they are not set up for a certain market or target group. For example they usually only contain the English language.

In view of the foregoing and other exemplary problems drawbacks and disadvantages of the conventional methods and structures an exemplary feature of the present invention is to provide a method and structure which allows a system administrator to implement a complete SAP system landscape in one day with pure i5 OS system administrator knowledge using the standard i5 OS restore procedure.

In an aspect of the present invention a method of implementing a complete SAP system landscape on IBM System i includes preselecting at least one value added reseller VAR for participation in implementing said complete SAP system landscape on IBM System i selecting values for flexible parameters the values selected by the VAR according to needs of a customer the flexible parameters including languages for i5 OS and SAP an amount of SAP ERC Central Component ECC systems ranging from one to three an inclusion of a SAP Solution Manager a client landscape a configuration of SAP systems and a level of software stack including a layer of the SAP systems a layer implementing country specific configuration a layer implementing industry specific configuration and a layer including VAR added value creating media with specified content at a factory using standard SAP procedures the specified content including the flexible parameters and a set of fixed parameters implementing the SAP systems according to specification while at the factory creating a full backup of the SAP systems using standard i5 OS operating system imaging restoring the media using the standard i5 OS operating system imaging at multiple customer sites the restoring performed by the VAR such that the VAR only need be an i5 OS system administrator having no knowledge about SAP on IBM System i and implementing feedback provided by said VAR to said factory for improving said specified content.

According to the present invention instead of installing i5 OS and each SAP system step by step the media provide a completely installed landscape of one to three SAP ECC systems and the mandatory SAP Solution Manager.

In addition using the i5 OS restore procedure the machine can be setup and prepared by a System i administrator to be handed over directly to an SAP consultant with no platform dependent skills. The scarce SAP on System i implementation skill is not needed.

Further using a common denominator of SAP configuration and customization for a specific small and medium businesses target group the media get created once to be restored many times at multiple customer sites. Every restore takes about a day so for every restore days to several weeks of implementation time and budget can be saved. It is expected that 70 90 of the configuration and customization time for a specific customer can be saved by using this approach.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there are shown exemplary embodiments of the method and structures according to the present invention.

The Solution Express procedure described herein was established to create volume business in the SAP on System i small and medium business segment. The Solution Express procedure provides a customer with a configured and customized complete SAP system landscape in a much shorter amount of time than is possible using the conventional method.

Instead of repeating the standard procedure once per SAP system again and again for every customer at the customer site the standard procedure is executed only once at the tape factory. The VAR then uses the image with the ready to run content and restores it once per customer at the customer site. The typical implementation time for the present invention is a few days whereas the typical implementation time for the conventional method is a few weeks.

After the VAR has been selected for the procedure they have to answer a questionnaire about the media content in order to specify the content of the image to be used. That is the VAR and the tape factory come to a common understanding of what needs to be implemented. When the content of the image is discussed with the VAR the VAR is provided with a description of typical layers that is e.g. options that might be a fit for the particular region being targeted. A questionnaire supports the VAR in the choice of the right layer and the content of that layer for example a country specific layer could be specific to France Brazil or Australia .

This specification of media content includes a number of parameters. There are several parameters that are fixed such as i5 OS with integrated IBM DB2 for i5 OS SAP Release ERP 2005 based components SAP s strategic go to release until 2010 ECC 6.0 Unicode and hostnames system IDs and instance numbers. There are other parameters that are flexible such as languages for i5 OS and SAP localization number of SAP ERC Central Component ECC systems one to three inclusion of SAP Solution Manager yes no client landscape configuration of SAP systems and level of software stack including a layer of SAP systems a layer of implementation of country or industry specific SAP Best Practices and a layer of VAR added value implementation. The VAR specifies the parameters using the VAR s knowledge about the customers of the region and industry being targeted.

The VAR can generally select software stack layers that should be included. exemplarily shows the layers that are implemented. The base layer contains only the operating system the database and the installed SAP systems at a current patch level. The country specific layer contains preconfigured generic business scenarios such as organizational structure basic financials basic controlling production basic sales and distribution. The industry specific layer provides business scenarios based on the specific requirements of that industry for example Automotive High Tech etc. . The VAR added value layer contains additional business logic implemented and owned by that VAR for the VAR s customers in the VAR s region and industry.

Each layer includes the lower layers and thus is fully functional. The more layers that are implemented leads to the more customization available making the software stack more specific. The VARs can directly input their knowledge about the customers in their region and industry.

After the questionnaire has been completed the factory creates the specified media content using standard SAP procedures installation or system copy shown in . The i5 OS operating system including the integrated IBM DB2 for i5 OS database and several SAP systems are installed on a source machine locally in the factory. All steps of the implementation that would need to be repeated by a local consultant for each customer like a common denominator can be put on media. Typical configuration and customization steps that would be repeated at most of the customer sites can be integrated in the media content. This is compliant with SAP s current approach to provide meaningful content suitable for many customers instead of customizing a system for each customer the latter of which tends to be costly.

When all SAP systems have been implemented according to the specifications in the factory which takes between three days and several weeks a full backup of the system is put on media using standard i5 OS operating system imaging. The factory then ships the image to the VAR. The VAR does not have to repeat the standard procedure but can directly restore the image in one day using operating system means. With every restore the VAR saves the time needed to create an image using the standard procedure.

The VAR restores the media using standard i5 OS operating system imaging at multiple customer sites. This can be done by an i5 OS system administrator thus no knowledge about SAP on System i installation or implementation is necessary. At the customer site the i5 OS system administrator restores the content of the media on an empty machine.

Every restore takes about a day so for every restore days to several weeks of implementation time and budget can be saved. It is expected that 70 90 of the configuration and customization time for a specific customer can be saved by using this approach. After installing valid licenses the SAP systems are immediately accessible.

After the VAR has gained experience with the approach the VAR provides feedback to the factory to improve the image content.

The exemplary Solution Express procedure of the present invention successfully presumes that there are many steps in setting up an SAP landscape that are independent of the specific customer and are specific only to a country industry or other variable. Instead of repeating multiple steps as does the conventional procedure during the installation configuration and customization of up to four SAP systems see the VAR only has to execute one step restore to recreate the fully implemented landscape. The standard procedure still has to be executed once in the factory but will not have to be repeated by the VAR for every single customer. The factory takes into account country and industry specific parameters to configure existing SAP and IBM software.

Therefore the software product is installed with all the client requirements at a source machine locally i.e. outside client site. During installation all the configurations specific to the landscape of the client site is taken into account. At the end a new software product is generated which is now client specific. Such client specific software product is then shipped to the client to be easily installed without implying high skill and possible shutdown.

Therefore instead of installing i5 OS and each SAP system step by step the media provide a completely installed SAP landscape of one to three SAP ECC systems and the mandatory SAP Solution Manager.

In addition using the i5 OS restore procedure the machine can be setup and prepared by a System i administrator to be handed over directly to an SAP consultant with no platform dependent skills. The scarce SAP on System i implementation skill is not needed.

Further using a common denominator of SAP configuration and customization for a specific small and medium businesses target group the media get created once to be restored many times at multiple customer sites.

The procedure is explained exemplary in the context of IBM i5 OS and SAP software but can be used in any complex environment. For example the procedure is available for situations where it is necessary to decide on specific configuration and create a landscape of multiple components that are not meaningful on their own but are meaningful when integrated using a suitable configuration and customization.

While the invention has been described in terms of several exemplary embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Further it is noted that Applicant s intent is to encompass equivalents of all claim elements even if amended later during prosecution.

