---

title: Utilizing a replacement pathway for lost packet delivery during media reception in a set-top box (STB)
abstract: A replacement pathway in an STB is utilized to determine loss of packets and delivery error during reception of media broadcasts, and to retrieve replacement data from one or more replacement media servers. The retrieval of the replacement data is performed during playback of the received media broadcasts. The communication of media broadcast incorporates delays to accommodate the retrieval of replacement data. Alternatively, received broadcast media streams are buffered to enable retrieval of replacement data and to provide seamless presentation of media content in the media broadcasts. The replacement media server performs access authentication operations during replacement data retrieval. The replacement media server is accessed via markup language, for example, HTML and/or XML, based interfaces and/or dedicated APIs. The replacement media server may deny replacement data based on plurality of service criteria such as acceptance and denial criteria, which may comprise allowable bandwidth and/or error rates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08064343&OS=08064343&RS=08064343
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08064343
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081125
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate to communication systems. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for utilizing a replacement pathway for lost packet delivery during media reception in a set top box STB .

Audiovisual display devices are utilized to play broadcast media streams received from broadcast head ends. Broadcast media streams are received via the internet and or via TV broadcasts. For example Television TV broadcasts are generally transmitted by television head ends over broadcast channels via RF carriers. The TV head ends may comprise terrestrial TV head ends Cable Television CATV and or satellite TV head ends. The TV head ends may utilize for example a set of broadcast channels to facilitate TV broadcast. The TV broadcasts comprise transmission of video and or audio information wherein the video and or audio information may be encoded into the broadcast channels via one of plurality of available modulation schemes. The TV Broadcasts may utilize analog and or digital modulation format. In analog television systems picture and sound information are encoded into and transmitted via analog signals wherein the audio video information may be conveyed via broadcast signals via amplitude and or frequency modulation on the television signal based on analog television encoding standard. Analog television broadcasters may for example encode their signals using NTSC PAL and or SECAM analog encoding and then modulate these signals onto a VHF or UHF RF carriers for example.

In digital television DTV systems television broadcasts may be communicated by terrestrial cable and or satellite head ends via discrete digital signals utilizing one or more of available digital modulation schemes which may comprise for example QAM VSB QPSK and or OFDM. The use of digital signals generally requires less bandwidth than analog signals to convey the same amount of information. Accordingly DTV systems may enable broadcasters to provide more digital channels within the same space otherwise available to analog television systems. In addition the use of digital television signals may enable broadcasters to provide high definition television HDTV broadcasting and or to provide other non television related service via the digital system. Available digital television systems comprise for example ATSC DVB and or VSB based systems. Video and or audio information may be encoded into digital television signals utilizing various video and or audio encoding and or compression algorithms which may comprise for example MPEG 2 MPEG 4 AVC MP3 AC 3 AAC and or HE AAC.

Media streams are sometimes broadcast via the Internet. Internet head ends are utilized for example to communicate multimedia streaming data which may correspond to TV broadcasts via the Internet based on one or more applicable networking standards including TCP IP.

Televisions TVs and or other audiovisual playback devices are utilized to play received TV and or media broadcasts. The received TV and or media broadcasts are inputted directly into the playback devices and the playback devices are enabled to perform for example necessary tuning and or processing operations to extract the audio video information. Alternately specialized devices referred to as set top boxes are utilized to provide necessary processing operations that convert TV and or Internet based media broadcasts to signals suitable for play via the playback devices.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for utilizing a replacement pathway for lost packet delivery during media reception in a set top box STB substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for utilizing a replacement pathway for lost packet delivery during media reception in a set top box STB . In various embodiments of the invention a set top box STB is enabled to determine delivery errors during reception of broadcast media streams from one or more broadcast media sources. The STB is operable to retrieve replacement data from a replacement media server whenever delivery errors occur. The broadcast media sources comprise Internet based broadcast media sources satellite head ends and or cable fiber head ends. The retrieval of the replacement data is performed during playback of received media streams. Communication of the broadcast media streams comprises the introduction of delays to accommodate for the retrieval of the replacement data from the replacement media server. Received broadcast media streams are buffered within the STB to enable retrieval of replacement data to enable seamless playback of received media streams. During replacement data retrieval operations the replacement media server performs access authentication operations. The replacement media server also enables creation and or modification of user related portfolios to facilitate subsequent product verifications and or user communication. The replacement media server enables interactions by remote users to request replacement data. Various markup language interfaces and or dedicated APIs are utilized for user interaction. The replacement media server is operable to accept or deny replacement data requests based on plurality of service criteria such as denial or acceptance criteria which may comprise allowable bandwidth and or maximum allowable error rates.

The playback device comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable playing of media streams. The playback device comprise for example a television monitor or other display device that is operable to enable displaying of video streams and or any accompanying audio which is received directly or via intermediate devices including STBs from broadcasts head ends and or audio video players.

The plurality of set top box options comprises one or more STBs to enable reception of media broadcasts from one or more different broadcast media head ends. The plurality of STB options comprises for example the Internet source STB the satellite source STB the cable fiber source STB and or the multi source STB . The Internet source STB comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing of various processing operations to facilitate reception of broadcast media carried via Internet based signals which are received from the broadcast media server and or one or more instances of the replacement media server via the internet for example. The Internet source STB is operable to extract audio video information that is then made displayable via audiovisual devices for example the playback device .

The satellite source STB comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing various processing operations to facilitate reception of satellite based media signals which are received from the satellite infrastructure via the satellite dish . The satellite source STB is operable to extract audio video information that is then made displayable via audiovisual devices for example the playback device . The cable fiber source STB comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing various processing operations to facilitate reception of cable fiber based media signals which are received via the cable fiber infrastructure . The cable fiber source STB is operable to extract audio video information that is then made displayable via audiovisual devices for example the playback device . The multi source STB comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing various processing operations to facilitate reception of media broadcast from a plurality of supported networks which comprise satellite cable fiber and or internet based interfaces. The multi source STB is operable to extract audio video information from signals received via any supported interfaces wherein the extracted audio video information is then made displayable via audiovisual devices for example the playback device .

The satellite infrastructure comprises suitable logic circuitry and or software that enable media broadcasts via for example one or more satellite networks. For example the satellite infrastructure comprises satellite TV head ends utilized to enable transmission of satellite TV signals. The satellite infrastructure also comprises necessary terrestrial support control and or relay systems and devices that are operable to enable communication of satellite TV broadcasts via the satellite infrastructure . The satellite dish comprises suitable logic circuitry and or software that enabled receiving satellite signaling which can comprise for example satellite media broadcasts. For example the satellite dish may comprise a dedicated parabolic antenna operable to receive satellite television signals communicated from satellite television head ends and to reflect and or concentrate the received satellite signal into focal point wherein one or more low noise amplifiers LNAs are to down convert the received signals to corresponding intermediate frequencies that may be proceed via satellite capable STBs including for example the satellite source STB .

The cable fiber infrastructure comprises suitable logic circuitry and or software that enable media broadcasts via for example one or more cable fiber backbone networks. For example the cable fiber infrastructure may comprise CATV head ends utilized to enable communication of cable television CATV broadcasts and distribution systems that enable forwarding of CATV communication from the CATV head ends to a plurality of subscribers. The distribution systems comprise for example fiber optics and or coaxial cable networks that enable connectivity between the CATV head ends and receiving nodes.

The broadcast media server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or software that enable media broadcasts via one or more interconnecting networks including for example the internet . The Internet comprises a system of interconnected networks which enables exchange of information and or data among a plurality of nodes based on one or more networking standards including for example TCP IP. For example the internet enables connectivity among a plurality of private and public academic business and or government nodes and networks wherein the physical connectivity may be provided via the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN via copper wires fiber optic cables wireless interface and or other standards based interfaces. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the Internet provides connectivity between the plurality of STB options and the broadcast media server and or the replacement media server to facilitate reception of broadcast media and or retrieval of replacement media.

The replacement media server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable storage and or retrieval of replacement data. For example the replacement media server is operable to enable retrieving replacement data via the internet to compensate for lost data in media streams received via the plurality of STB options .

In operation the set top box options is utilized to enable playing media broadcasts received from available media broadcast sources via for example the playback device . For example the satellite dish is utilized to enable reception of satellite TV signals communicated via for the satellite infrastructure . Satellite TV broadcast comprises plurality of satellite TV channels wherein signals carrying audio video information corresponding to the various satellite TV channels are for example digitally modulated onto RF carriers. The satellite dish is operable to enable receiving and down converting via low noise amplifiers LNAs downlink satellite RF signals. The resulting signals are then communicated to the satellite source STB . The cable fiber infrastructure is utilized for example to enable communication of Cable TV CATV signals broadcast for example by CATV head ends.

The CATV broadcast comprises plurality of CATV channels wherein signals carrying audio video information corresponding to the various CATV channels are for example digitally modulated onto RF carriers. The cable fiber infrastructure is operable for example to enable receiving CATV RF signals via available CATV distribution systems and the received CATV signals are then communicated to cable fiber source STB . The satellite source STB and or cable fiber source STB are utilized to perform necessary processing operations on received satellite and or CATV signals. The processing operations comprise for example RF tuning and or reception related operations which include demodulation filtering and or conversion of the received RF signals to enable extracting communicated data. The processing operations also comprise for example necessary operations to decrypt and or to decode utilized transport packets and or to perform necessary video and or audio decoding and processing. The Internet source STB is utilized to enable reception of media broadcast communicated by Internet based head ends. For example the Internet source STB is utilized to enable reception of media broadcast communicated by the broadcast media server via the Internet . Internet based media broadcasts comprise for example Internet based communication comprised of packets carrying audio video information based on one or more applicable networking standards including TCP IP. The Internet source STB is operable to enable establishing necessary connectivity to facilitate the reception of media broadcasts. The Internet source STB the satellite source STB and or the cable fiber source STB are operable to processes the extracted audio video information to enable playing or presentation of corresponding media streams via the playback device .

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the Internet source STB the satellite source STB and or the cable fiber source STB are operable to perform frame sequence assembly from received signals and or packets to decode the audio video information received via the broadcast media. The Internet source STB the satellite source STB and or the cable fiber source STB are also operable to perform audio video encoding and or RF modulation that enables playback of the broadcast media streams via suitable audiovisual devices for example the playback device . The multi source STB is utilized to enable reception of media streams from one or more available sources. The multi source enables for example combining the operations of the Internet source STB the satellite source STB and or the cable fiber source STB wherein common processing functionality and or operations are performed via shared subsystems and unique functionality interface related operations for example are performed via dedicated sub devices.

In an exemplary aspect of the invention one or more of the set top box options are operable to detect for delivery errors in received media broadcasts. For example signal and or packet loss and or distortion during communication from broadcast head ends may prevent and or degrades playback of the received media streams. Delivery errors may also cause and or result from out of sequence frame delivery where broadcast streams comprise frames that are subject to specific sequence numbering. Out of sequence delivery is relevant for example with dependent frames whose processing requires audio video information carried in reference frames that must be received prior to reception of the reference frames. The set top box options are then operable to retrieve from one or more instances of the replacement media server replacement data that enable seamless playback of the received media streams. Replacement data may also be retrieved from local storage devices comprising for example internal and or external memory devices. The local storage devices are utilized for example to buffer received broadcasts to enable use of frames that are received out of sequence for example as replacement data. In instances where interference for example disrupts the communication and or reception of satellite TV broadcast via the satellite infrastructure and or the satellite dish the cable fiber STB detects for example the presence of delivery errors. The satellite source STB determines lost frames and communicates with the replacement media server via the Internet to request replacement data corresponding to the missing frames. The cable fiber STB and or the Internet source STB operate substantially similar to the satellite STB to perform similar operations to enable detection of delivery errors during reception of media broadcasts from the cable fiber infrastructure and the broadcast media server respectively. The replacement data received via the Internet is then combined with the received frames to enable seamless playback of received media streams via the playback device .

The media processing system comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable reception of broadcast media and or retrieval of replacement data. The media processing system comprises for example the media communication interface subsystem the processing circuitry the media queue memory the audio video DACs and RF modulator subsystem . The media processing system is integrated into an STB for example one or more of the set top box options to enable reception of broadcast media streams via the media communication interface subsystem from broadcast media head ends. The media processing system is the operable to enable performing necessary processing of received streams in the STB via the processing circuitry to retrieve replacement data and to generate media streams that are playable via display playback devices via the audio video DACs and RF modulation subsystem .

The media communication interface subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable reception of media data from one or more sources. The media communication interface subsystem comprises for example the broadcast media communication interface which is operable to enable reception of broadcast media data from one or more broadcast head ends and the replacement media communication interface which is operable to enable reception of replacement data from one or more instances of the replacement data server .

The processing circuitry comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing processing operations to facilitate reception of broadcast media and or retrieval of replacement data. The processing circuitry comprises for example the audio video decoding block the user I F management the delivery error handling block and the queue management block . The audio video decoding block comprises functionality that enables performing processing received broadcast media data and or replacement data operation to extract audio video information contained therein. The audio video decoding block comprises for example suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing of audio and or video processing operations including for example necessary decompression and or decoding operations pertaining to one or more audio video encoding schemes which may comprise for example MPEG 2 MPEG 4 AVC MP3 AC 3 AAC and or HE AAC.

The user I F management block comprises functionality that enables interactions with the replacement media server via the media processing system based on for example commonly utilized interfaces and or an application programming interfaces API . The user I F management block is operable for example to enable running a HTTP based client functionality that enables establishing peer to peer connection with HTTP based server functionlity running on the replacement media server wherein the user input output is available for example via the playback device . Alternatively the user I F management block is operable to enable running a client functionality that is specific to an API based server functionality running in the replacement media server to enable device to device API IF based connectivity. Operations of the user I F entity enable for example prompting for and or receiving various information from the user including for example access information product information and or data replacement request parameters.

The delivery error handling block comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable detection of delivery errors during reception of broadcast media streams via the media processing system . The delivery error handling block tracks for example frame and or transport related information in received TV broadcast to determine if there are missing frames and or packets that prevents seemingly error free playback of the received media streams. The delivery error handling block is also operable for example to enable detecting out of sequence delivery errors based on tracking of frames sequence numbering information for example. Out of sequence delivery is relevant for example with dependent frames whose processing requires audio video information carried in reference frames that must be received prior to reception of the reference frames. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the delivery error handling block is utilized to generate parameters and or information that enable identification of corresponding replacement data via the replacement media server .

The queue management block comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable managing data queuing to enable and or to improve playback operations. The queue management block enables managing for example buffering of data used during playback operations wherein such data buffering enable performing retrieval of replacement data and or combining replacement data onto received media streams. The queued data is buffered for example in the media queue memory . The media queue memory comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable storage of data code and or other information. The media queue memory for example is utilized to enable temporary storage and or buffering during operations by other subsystems and or entities in the media processing system . Consequently the queue management block and or the media queue memory enable buffering of received broadcast media streams for example to enable performing necessary replacement data retrieval operations.

The audio video DAC and RF modulation subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable generation of output audio and or video streams. The audio video decoding block is operable for example to generate audio and or video streams from the received broadcast and or the replacement media data. The resulting audio video information is playable and or displayable via suitable audiovisual devices for example the playback device . The audio video DACs and RF modulation subsystem are operable for example to enable performing necessary audio video encoding and or modulation operations to ensure playback of the received broadcast media streams via the playback device for example.

In operation the media processing system is integrated into an STB to enable reception and playback of media streams from one or more broadcast head ends. For example the broadcast media communication the processing circuitry the media queue memory and or the audio video DAC and RF modulation subsystem are operable to enable receiving and processing of media streams carried for example via RF signaling and or Internet based packets.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention where delivery errors are encountered during broadcast media reception the delivery error handling block is utilized to enable error detection and or to facilitate retrieval of replacement data. The delivery error handling block is utilized for example to detect errors that are caused by interference and or corruption of frames and or packets utilized via broadcast head ends to communicate the media streams. The delivery error handling block is utilized to determine whether replacement data is available. For example in instances where the received media stream comprises a sequence of frames the delivery error handling block is operable to determine whether there are lost frames. The delivery error handling block then attempts to communicate with the replacement media server to request replacement data. The user I F management block is utilized to initiate and manage the connection with the replacement media server wherein the replacement media communication interface is utilized to perform the transmission and or reception of messages to and or from the replacement media server via the Internet for example. The user I F management block is also utilized for example to enable performing of access security operations where the replacement media server performs authentication and or verification operations providing for example user and or product related verification information. The replacement media server communicates the replacement data if available to the replacement media communication interface via the Internet for example.

The queue management block is operable for example to manage the received replacement data wherein the replacement data is buffered via the media queue memory to enable combining the replacement data into the error free portions of the received media streams. The combined data is then processed via the audio video DAC and RF modulation subsystem to enable error free playback of the media streams via the playback device for example.

The media management server is substantially as described with respect to . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the replacement media server comprises a plurality of constituent functional blocks to enable supporting replacement data retrieval during broadcast media reception operations. The replacement media server comprises for example the account management entity the personal media portfolios entity the media database entity the user I F entity and the API IF entity .

The account management entity comprises functionality that enables verification of users access information. The account management entity enables generating storing and or activating user access information and that access information is utilized thereafter in subsequent access requests to perform the necessary access verification. The account management entity also enables for example comparing provided access information with previously provided and or stored information during replacement data requests processing in the replacement media server . The account management entity is also utilized to perform initial registration when a user attempts to access the replacement media server for the first time. The access information comprises various types of information including for example user identifiers user passwords and or addressing information for devices used by users to enable reception of broadcast media data. At least some of access information is provided by manufacturers of STB devices and or providers of media broadcasts or it is generated by users of the broadcast media STBs. The personal media portfolios entity comprises in one embodiment of the invention functionality that enables creating updating and or modifying user s broadcast media related information.

The broadcast media related information comprises for example information regarding the broadcast media player devices that particular users have acquired and or used and or information pertaining to the various broadcast media providers to which the user has subscribed. This information is then used for example to facilitate product and or service verifications and or to enable communicating with the users where such communication is deemed necessary. The broadcast media related information is generated in the personal media portfolios entity in suitable instances of the replacement media server by broadcast media providers based on transactions with users of their products and or services. The broadcast media related information is also generated and or modified whenever a user requests replacement data for a media storage element for the first time.

The media database entity comprises comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that manages stored data that is accessed in the replacement data server to facilitate retrieval of replacement data. The media database entity comprises for example copies of the broadcast multimedia data streams that are communicated by broadcast media providers. During replacement data retrieval requests the media database entity verifies data that needs to be retrieved whether the data is present within replacement data server and if data is present the media database entity facilitates communication of the replacement data to the entity requesting the replacement data via the user I F entity and or the API IF entity . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the replacement media server is operable via the media database entity for example to accept or deny replacement data requests based on plurality of service criteria. The service criteria comprise for example allowable bandwidth and or maximum allowable error rates. The service criteria is applicable with regard to each particular user and or based on the aggregate requested service required via the replacement media server at any given point.

The user I F entity comprises functionality that enables interactions between users and the replacement media server based on commonly utilized interface for example. The user I F entity enables for example remote access and or control for replacement data retrieval based on an HTTP based browsing interactions available via the media processing system for example. Consequently the user I F entity will enable running a HTTP based server functionality via the replacement media server that enable establishing peer to peer connection with HTTP based client functionlity running at the user end. The user I F entity enables for example prompting for and or receiving various information from users including for example access information product information and or data replacement request parameters.

The API IF entity comprises functionality that enables direct interactions between devices requesting replacement data and the replacement media server based on application programming interface API that is specific to a server functionality running in the replacement media server . For example once a determination is made via the media processing system for example that replacement data is needed the API IF entity enables direct device to device interactions to facilitate the replacement data retrieval independent of user interactions. The API IF entity is utilized to retrieve replacement data for example where there is minimal interactions needed because access information and or verification information for example were previously provided and or were predefined directly into the replacement media server by third parties. Consequently the API IF entity is utilized to enable communication of the replacement data.

In step broadcast data reception is initiated. For example the media processing system initiates reception of media broadcast via the broadcast media communication interface . In step delivery error detection is performed during media broadcast reception. For example during media broadcast reception via the media processing system the failed packet handling block in the processing circuitry is utilized to detect packet delivery errors or failures in received broadcast media streams. In step it is determined whether replacement content is available via for example a replacement media server. For example the replacement media communication interface in the media processing system is utilized to determine whether replacement media server is accessible via the internet for example. In instances where it is determined that the replacement media server is inaccessible the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step an error indication is generated. The error indication may comprise information detailing the cause of failure. The exemplary steps then terminate.

Returning to step in instances where it is determined that the replacement media server is accessible the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a request for replacement data is communicated to the replacement media server . In step it is determined whether replacement data is received from the replacement media server . For example the replacement data may not be received because the replacement data request may fail due to failures encountered while performing one or more of the verifications in the replacement media server because necessary data is not available in the media database in the replacement media server . The reception of replacement data may also be due to data loss in the communication between the replacement media server and the media processing system . In an exemplary aspect of the invention the replacement data request is repeated for a predetermined number of retries and or until it is determined that the failure is final. In instances where it is determined that the replacement data is not available the exemplary steps proceed to step .

Returning to step in instances where the replacement data is received the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the replacement data is utilized to facilitate successful play of broadcast media. The replacement data is processed via the processing circuitry and the missing packets are inserted via the media queue for example to enable continuous and uninterrupted audio video processing of the media stream via the audio video DAC RF modulation subsystem .

In step a request for replacement data is received in a replacement media server . For example the replacement media server is operable to receive via the user interface and or the API IF a request for replacement data from the media processing system . In step access information authentication is performed. For example the account management entity is utilized to perform necessary access authentication operations in the replacement media server . In instances where access authentication fails the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a request failure indication is generated and communicated back to the requesting entity. The exemplary steps then terminate.

Returning to step in instances where access authentication succeeds the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step it is determined whether the requested replacement data is available. For example the replacement media server determines once the access information is verified whether the requested replacement data is available via the media database for example. In instances where the requested replacement data is unavailable the exemplary steps proceed to step .

Returning to step in instances where the requested replacement data is available the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the replacement data is communicated to the requesting entity. For example once the replacement data is found the replacement media server communicates the data to the media processing system . In step it is determined whether to update user personal media portfolios. For example after communicating replacement data the replacement media server determines whether the received request indicates a need to create and or modify the requesting user s profile via the personal media portfolios . In instances where no personal media portfolios updates are necessary the exemplary steps terminate. Returning to step in instances where personal media portfolios updates are required the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the personal media portfolios is updated.

Various embodiments of the invention may comprise a method and system for utilizing a replacement pathway for lost packet delivery during media reception in a set top box STB . The media processing system is utilized to determine via the delivery error handling block delivery errors during reception of broadcast media streams via one or more the set top box options . The media processing system is then utilized to retrieve replacement data from the replacement media server . The broadcast media streams are received from the broadcast media server via the Internet from the satellite infrastructure via the satellite dish and or from the cable fiber infrastructure . The retrieval of the replacement data is performed during playback of receive media streams via the media processing system . Communication of the broadcast media streams comprises the introduction of delays to accommodate for the retrieval of replacement data. Received broadcast media streams are buffered in the media processing system via the queue management block and or the media queue memory to enable retrieval of replacement data to enable seamless playback of received media streams.

During replacement data retrieval operations the replacement media server performs access authentication operations via the account management entity . The replacement media server is operable to enable creation and or modification of user related portfolios via the personal media portfolios to facilitate future product verifications and or user communication. The replacement media server enables interactions by remote users to request replacement data wherein the user interactions are based on various markup language interfaces supported via the user interface and or based on dedicated APIs supported via the API interface . The replacement media server may deny replacement data requests based on plurality of service denial criteria which may comprise allowable bandwidth and or maximum allowable error rates. Exemplary markup language may comprise HTML and XML and any variants thereof.

Another embodiment of the invention may provide a machine and or computer readable storage and or medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for utilizing a replacement pathway for lost packet delivery during media reception in a set top box STB .

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

