---

title: Zinc-based plated steel sheet excellent in surface electrical conductivity having primary rust preventive thin film layer
abstract: A zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet expressing a performance provided with both corrosion resistance and surface conductivity is provided. The zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet of the present invention is a zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet having an arithmetic average roughness Ra of a zinc-plated layer surface defined by JIS B 0601, obtained by a stylus-type surface roughness meter defined by JIS B 0651, of 0.3 μm to 2.0 μm and a maximum peak height Rp of 4.0 μm to 20.0 μm, wherein the arithmetic average roughness Ra (peak) obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 μm of peak parts of 80% or more of the Rp by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer is 70% or more of the arithmetic average roughness Ra (average) obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 μm of parts of a height of ±20% about an average line, obtained by a stylus-type surface roughness meter, by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08420224&OS=08420224&RS=08420224
owner: Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation
number: 08420224
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080215
---
This application is a national stage application of International Application No. PCT JP2008 053108 filed 15 Feb. 2008 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a zinc based surface treated steel sheet used for PCs audio TV and other home appliances and copiers printers facsimiles and other office automation products which is superior in the conductivity of the steel sheet surface which becomes essential for securing the groundability and electromagnetic shielding performance of steel sheet members after assembly of the home electronics or office automation products and is also provided with corrosion resistance.

For a long time surface treated steel sheet comprised of galvanized steel sheet treated on its surface by chromate has been used in large quantities for industrial products in a broad range of fields. This galvanized steel sheet had a high ability to suppress the formation of white rust which occurred when used under the usual atmospheric environment and further had the features of easily securing conductivity between the electronic board and steel member and having superior groundability and shielding performance. The ability to suppress white rust was high due to it was believed the high ability of passivation of a chromate film to plated zinc material and the high ability of the film of self repair of damages. Further the conductivity was good since the chromate treated layer was thin and uniform so the contact resistance with the conductive terminals was kept low.

In recent years the demands on materials for reduction of environmental load substances and toxic substances have grown tougher. There is an increasing movement toward restricting use of the hexavalent chrome used for chromate films. Hexavalent chrome is a toxic substance identified as being carcinogenic. Restrictions on discharge of hexavalent chrome in the process of production of surface treated steel sheet and harm to health accompanying elution thereof at the time of use of the steel sheet are concerns.

Therefore the inventors developed a treated film not using chromate at all for example see JP 2000 319787 A . JP 2000 319787 A disclosed the technology of coating the surface of a galvanized steel sheet with a rust preventive coating layer. To improve the corrosion resistance phosphoric acid or an inhibitor ingredient was suitably added. This treated steel sheet was superior in corrosion resistance due to being coated with an insulating resin layer but had the defect of being inferior in surface conductivity. Therefore the rust preventive steel sheet of JP 2000 319787 A cannot at present be said to have sufficient characteristics for application to home electronics office automation products and other equipment stressing groundability.

Here groundability means making the potential of the surface of the steel sheet caused by electromagnetic waves emitted from electronic components or electromagnetic waves coming from outside the device the same as the ground potential. If this groundability is insufficient trouble such as erroneous operation or breakdown of the electronic equipment noise etc. will occur.

Electronic equipment up to now have generally secured this groundability by being screwed to steel housings chassis etc. In this case the end faces of the steel sheet were exposed at the screw holes so metal metal conduction could be easily obtained regardless of any chromate layer. However along with the increasingly smaller size and higher performance of electronic equipment in recent years the number of complicatedly shaped parts has increased the screw fastened parts have decreased and parts have increasingly been joined by contact of steel sheet surfaces or contact by caulking or leaf springs. In this case it is important that the surface of the plated steel sheet be small in contact resistance. In systems coated with insulating resin explained above the groundability therefore became insufficient.

As prior art for improving this groundability JP 2004 277876 A forms an intermediate layer having groundability at the surface of the plating layer and further forms an organic resin layer on the surface thereof and specifies that the coverage rate of the organic resin layer is at least 80 and for the surface roughness of the steel sheet an arithmetic average roughness Ra is 1.0 to 2.0 m and a filtered center line waviness Wca is not more than 0.8 m.

Further JP 2005 238535 A discloses the art of obtaining a surface roughness of a sheet stock to be plated by defining the surface roughness Ra and PPI of electrodischarge treated temper rolling rolls and securing conductivity of the resultant obtained galvanized steel sheet without impairing the corrosion resistance.

Furthermore JP 2002 363766 A defines the surface roughness of the sheet stock itself to be plated by the count of peaks and the Ra so as to achieve both corrosion resistance and conductivity.

However while JP 2004 277876 A JP 2005 238535 A and JP 2002 363766 A all demonstrate an effect of improvement of the conductivity the performance is not stably expressed and depending on the production line conductivity cannot be secured. Development of technology stably securing conductivity has been desired.

Galvanized steel sheet coated with a chromate free film is produced by subjecting a coil shaped steel sheet continuously to a plating treatment and chromate free treatment. The plating method includes electroplating and hot dip plating. The former is the art of electrochemically causing the precipitation of zinc in an aqueous solution containing Zn ions while the latter is the art of immersing a steel sheet in a molten state metal zinc bath to form a film. The surface configuration of the plating is in the case of electroplating high in uniformity of formation of the plating so the surface configuration of the sheet stock is maintained but with hot dip plating the leveling property is high and configuration is generally imparted by transfer of the configuration of the temper rolling roll after plating. The plated steel sheet is coated with a resin based or inorganic chromate free film or chromate film baked and dried by a later post treatment section. After this it is coiled to obtain the final product.

A zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet produced by such a production process contacts a large number of metal rolls in the process of production. Depending on the rolls the steel sheet surface is often subjected to a relatively high rolling force. If the plated surface is rolled by metal rolls after galvanization and before coating in a post treatment section there is a good chance of the configuration of the plated surface changing. The galvanization metal has a microvicker s hardness of about 50 or so that is is soft so the projecting portions of the plating are often crushed flat by the metal rolls. Such deformation occurs in the microscopic region so it is often not possible to sufficiently recognize changes in configuration by measurement by the stylus type surface roughness meter defined in JIS B 0651. Further with such crushed configurations the roughness of the sheet stock or the roughness imparted by the temper rolling of the sheet stock after plating ends up changing and the state of surface coverage of a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer also changes so sufficient conductivity can no longer be expressed.

That is the issue has been to avoid the drop in conductivity due to crushing of the projecting parts of a plated surface caused in the current process of production using a continuous plating facility for galvanization and post treatment.

The inventors engaged in in depth studies to achieve both conductivity and corrosion resistance of a zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet treated without chromate. As a result they discovered that it becomes possible to achieve both conductivity and corrosion resistance not by managing the roughness of a zinc or zinc alloy plated layer surface by measuring the roughness parameter defined in JIS B 0601 using the device defined in JIS B 0651 but by defining the microscopic region roughness of plating projecting parts. Further they discovered that the ratio of portions with a roughness of projecting parts equal to or higher than a certain value being at least a certain value is also important. The present invention was made based on the above discovery.

 1 A zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet superior in surface conductivity after being given a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer having an arithmetic average roughness Ra of a zinc plated layer surface defined by JIS B 0601 obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter defined by JIS B 0651 of 0.3 m to 2.0 m and a maximum peak height Rp of 4.0 m to 20.0 m wherein the arithmetic average roughness Ra peak obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 m of peak parts of 80 or more of the Rp by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer is 70 or more of the arithmetic average roughness Ra average obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 m of parts of a height of 20 about an average line obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer.

 2 A zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet superior in surface conductivity after being given a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer as set forth in 1 wherein the area of the parts where the arithmetic average roughness Ra peak obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 m of peak parts of 80 or more of the Rp defined by JIS B 0601 obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer is less than 70 of the arithmetic average roughness Ra average obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 m of parts of a height of 20 about an average line obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer is 5 or less of the zinc plated surface area as a whole.

 3 A zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet superior in surface conductivity after being given a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer as set forth in 1 or 2 wherein the arithmetic average roughness Ra peak obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 m of peak parts of 80 or more of the Rp defined by JIS B 0601 obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer is 0.03 m to 1.0 m.

 4 A zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet superior in surface conductivity after being given a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer as set forth in any one of 1 to 3 wherein an average thickness of the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer is 0.2 m to 5.0 m.

 5 A method of production of a zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet superior in surface conductivity after being given a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer said zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet produced by plating a steel sheet with zinc or a zinc alloy and then forming a thin film primary rust preventive coating layer said zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet having an arithmetic average roughness Ra of a surface of a zinc plated layer defined by JIS B 0601 obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter defined by JIS B 0651 of 0.3 m to 2.0 m and a maximum peak height Rp of 4.0 m to 20.0 m an arithmetic average roughness Ra peak obtained by measuring a range of an evaluation length of 20 m of peak parts with 80 or more of the Rp by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer being 70 or more of an arithmetic average roughness Ra average obtained by measuring a range of evaluation length of 20 m of parts of a height of 20 about an average line obtained by a stylus type surface roughness meter by an electron beam 3D roughness analyzer said method characterized by controlling a rolling force so that a relation stands where a rolling force F N mm per mm roll length applied to a plating surface by pinch rolls contacting a conveyed steel sheet and a microvicker s hardness MHv of the plating layer measured by JIS Z 2244 satisfy the following relation 1 from when the steel sheet is provided with the zinc plated layer to the formation of the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer 9.8065MHv 10 1 where R is a roll radius mm and h is a value of Rp of the plated steel sheet m .

According to the present invention even if making the thickness of the thin film primary rust prevention coating layer thicker conductivity is expressed so this is achieved along with corrosion resistance. Further if it is possible to make the layer thicker not only the corrosion resistance but also the press workability the ability to impart flaw resistance the ablation resistance and other features are also improved. Further if controlling production using the plating roughness of the present invention as an indicator it becomes possible to produce zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet stably balanced in conductivity and corrosion resistance even in production on various plating lines.

The inventors examined in detail the configurations of plated surfaces of zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheets produced by continuous plating facilities. An example of a scanning electron micrograph of the surface of an electrogalvanized steel sheet produced on an electrogalvanization line is shown in . The inventors discovered that a plating layer is formed along the relief configuration of the sheet stock imparted by temper rolling and that the plating layer surface has micro configuration caused by the microcrystal forms of the electrogalvanization layer itself. However they discovered that the configuration caused by the microcrystal forms on the surface of the plating layer formed on sheet stock projecting parts includes flattened portions due to crushing. The portion is shown by the dark contrast indicated by the arrow in the figure. The roughness of this crushed portion cannot be measured by a stylus type surface roughness meter defined by JIS B 0651. That is a stylus type surface roughness meter uses a metal stylus as a measurement probe and the radius of curvature R of the front end of the stylus is about 5 m so it is not possible to detect the microcrystal forms caused by plating crystals of . Therefore the inventors studied intensively the technique for measuring such microcrystal forms and as a result learned that it is sufficient to use a scanning electron microscope type 3D roughness analysis system.

The photograph of is a composite image of the combined signals of the 4 channels. The dark contrast part in the figure area of in the figure is the region of the projection of the sheet stock. The plating layer is crushed and flattened there. On the other hand the area of the surrounding parts represents the depressed part of the sheet stock where the microcrystal forms of the plating layer are maintained. The micro configurations of these areas are respectively shown in and .

Furthermore to quantify the surface configuration at the local regions based on this digital image data the value of Ra in the region of the evaluated length 20 m was found. The Ra of the crushed area of in was 0.02 m while the Ra of the other parts was 0.06 m. That is by measuring the roughness in the extremely narrow range of an evaluation length of 20 m the projecting crushed parts and the other parts where the plating microcrystals remain differ in Ra by close to 3 to 1 ratio whereby it was possible to clearly indicate the difference in roughness.

Next the inventors studied in detail the effects of such micro configuration of the sheet stock projecting parts on the state of coverage of the surface of a thin film primary rust prevention coating film. The inventors coated a plated steel sheet without the plating microcrystals of the sheet stock projecting parts being crushed and a steel sheet with them crushed with water based polyolefin resin coatings to 1.2 m and examined their cross sectional structures by a scanning electron microscope. The results are shown in and . The resin coated layer of the not crushed plated steel sheet of becomes thin at the projecting parts of the sheet stock. Further at the projecting parts of the microcrystals at the plating layer surface of those parts a state where the resin coating layer did not completely cover the surface was observed. On the other hand the inventors learned that at the crushed plating of the sheet stock projecting parts of the resin coating layer became thin but completely covered the surface. That is if there are microcrystal forms of the plating layer surface of sheet stock projecting parts these act to lower the coverage of the resin layer and partially expose the plating layer. These exposed parts become conduction points so the inventors learned that conductivity was secured by contact of steel sheets with each other or contact with a conductive terminal. On the other hand the inventors learned that parts where the micro configuration of the plating layer at sheet stock projecting parts are crushed are covered by the insulating resin film so no conductivity was expressed. That is the inventors discovered that to improve the conductivity of electrogalvanized steel sheet just controlling the relief configuration of the sheet stock is not enough and that leaving a microcrystalline structure at the plating layer surface of the projecting parts is important.

The present invention was made based on these technical discoveries. The inventors used as an indicator defining the residual degree of micro configuration at the plating layer surface of sheet stock projecting parts the value of Ra of an evaluation length 20 m of the parts other than the projecting part and judged that if the value of Ra of the sheet stock projecting parts is 70 or more crushing does not occur or there is some crushing but there is no effect on the conductivity.

First the surface roughness of plated steel sheet shown by a usual stylus type roughness meter is in terms of the arithmetic average roughness Ra defined by JIS B 0601 0.3 m to 2.0 m. If Ra is smaller than 0.3 m the surface coverage of the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer becomes good. This is desirable from the viewpoint of the corrosion resistance but is not preferable from the viewpoint of the conductivity. As a result setting the thickness of the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer for achieving both conductivity and corrosion resistance becomes difficult. On the other hand if Ra exceeds 2.0 m the coverage of the thin film primary rust preventive film becomes extremely poor and the conductivity becomes extremely good but the corrosion resistance deteriorates. Thus it no longer becomes possible to set a range of film thickness where both are achieved. Therefore Ra was determined to be 0.3 m to 2.0 m. Preferably Ra is 0.6 to 1.5 m more preferably 0.6 to 1.1 m most preferably about 0.9 m. The maximum peak height Rp for reasons similar to Ra was also determined to be 4.0 m to 20.0 m. Preferably Rp is 12 to 20 m more preferably 12 to 17 m most preferably about 15 m.

If the zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet has a plating deposition smaller than 5 g m the sacrificial corrosion resistance action with respect to the steel sheet becomes insufficient and red rust ends up occurring in a short time so this is not preferable. At 300 g mor more the effect of improvement of the corrosion resistance ends up becoming saturated the plating cost increases and powdering like plating peeling occurs so this is not preferable.

To define the forms of the plating microcrystals of the sheet stock projecting parts the inventors took note of the peaks of 80 or more of the Rp and defined the Ra in the range of 20 m of the evaluation length of those parts. At parts of less than 80 of the Rp no contact occurs with the metal rolls. Further if smaller than the evaluation length of 20 m the measurement error no longer can be ignored while if larger than 20 m the evaluation length can go beyond the boundary of the sheet stock projecting part and end up including depressed parts so this is not preferred.

For the parts other than the projecting parts the parts 20 above and below the vicinity of the average line were used for representative values. The value of the Ra average of those parts was made the standard value. The inventors learned that if the Ra peak of the sheet stock projecting parts peak parts is a value of 70 or more of that value there is either no crushing by the metal rolls or only slight crushing and there is no effect on the conductivity and corrosion resistance. On the other hand the inventors learned that if the value of Ra of those parts becomes less than 70 the crushing by the metal rolls becomes remarkable. The upper limit of the ratio of Ra peak Ra average is determined to be 110 since the larger the transfer of roughness of the rolls the greater the drop in the continuous operating ability due to wrapping of zinc around the rolls etc. Preferably the ratio of Ra peak Ra average is 70 to 110 more preferably 95 to 105 most preferably about 100 .

If the peak parts become too small in Ra peak they end up being completely covered by the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer and no surface conductivity is expressed so the lower limit of Ra peak was determined to be 0.03 m. On the other hand if Ra peak becomes too large the coverage rate of the coating film falls and the surface conductivity is improved whereas the corrosion resistance deteriorates so the upper limit thereof was determined to be 1.0 m. Preferably Ra peak is 0.03 to 1.0 m more preferably 0.03 to 0.5 m most preferably about 0.2 m.

Further the inventors learned that even if there are crushed parts at the sheet stock projecting parts Ra less than 70 if the area ratio of those parts is not more than 5 of the zinc plated surface area as a whole the material of the present invention achieving both conductivity and corrosion resistance is obtained. If the area ratio became larger than 5 the characteristics of the crushed parts became dominant and the drop in conductivity became a value which cannot be ignored. The area ratio is more preferably 3 or less most preferably 1 or less.

To leave the microcrystal forms of the sheet stock projecting parts optimization of various operating conditions is required but the most important thing is to prevent strong rolling by the metal rolls after the plating until the formation of the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer. If the rolls are winding rolls the rolling force is small and no crushing occurs but in the case of pinch rolls where the steel sheet is contacted therewith by line contact the upper limit of the rolling force must be controlled. At this time the upper limit where the Vicker s hardness of the plating layer prevents crushing from occurring differs but the hardness of a plating layer easily changes according to the electrolysis conditions or concentration of impurities in the bath so it is not effective to define the rolling force of metal rolls across the board. The inventors studied in detail the upper limit allowable value of the roll rolling force and as a result discovered a relation defining the upper limit of the rolling force. That is when the rolling force per mm length of the roll is F N mm and the microvicker s hardness of the plating layer measured by JIS Z 2244 is MHv the following relation stands 9.8065MHv 10 1 where R is the roll radius mm while h is the value of Rp m of plated steel sheet.

If F becomes larger than the value of the right side of formula 1 the plating layer ends up becoming crushed so this is not preferred. If smaller than the value of the right side the shapes of the projecting parts defined by the present invention can be maintained. In formula 1 if the standard MHv of pure zinc plating is 50 the radius of the pinch rolls is 100 mm and the Rp of the plated steel sheet is 10 m the right side becomes 693. On the other hand the rolling force of standard pinch rolls is 1000 to 3000 N mm or so. Thus under ordinary operating conditions the rolling force ends up becoming a value larger than the right side and crushing ends up occurring. Therefore it becomes necessary to control the rolling force so as to satisfy formula 1 discovered by the present invention.

It is important that the thin film primary rust preventive film be set to a thickness achieving both conductivity and corrosion resistance. The smaller the Ra of JIS B 0651 of the sheet stock the smaller the optimum film thickness. This value cannot be specified but when Ra is 0.3 m at the minimum 0.2 m is necessary. On the other hand when Ra is 2.0 m at the maximum 5.0 m is permitted. Therefore the lower limit and upper limit film thicknesses were determined to be 0.2 m and 5.0 m. However there are various optimum values due to the effects of a number of factors such as the shape of the sheet stock the roughnesses Ra and Rp of the microcrystals of the projecting parts the type of coating etc.

The thin film primary rust preventive layer may be of any type such as water based resins such as acrylics olefins urethanes styrenes phenols polyesters etc. or solvent based epoxies etc. Alternatively it may be based on inorganic silica water glass metal salt a Zr Ti Ce Mo or Mn oxide . Further it may be based on an organic inorganic composite silane coupling agent. The film may have added to it phosphoric acid an inhibitor ingredient or Co Ni or other metals for improving the corrosion resistance and improving the blackening resistance.

Single layer treatment of only the thin film primary rust prevention film gives sufficient performance but if further applying an undercoat treatment comprised of chromate free undercoat treatment the corrosion resistance coating adhesion and other aspects of the film performance are improved much more so this is preferred. As the chromate free undercoat treatment agent Zr oxide Ti oxide Si oxide Ce oxide a phosphate a silane coupling agent etc. may be selected. If the amount deposited is 0.001 g mor less sufficient performance cannot be obtained while if over 0.5 g m the effect becomes saturated and the adhesive strength conversely falls and other problems surface.

Electrogalvanized steel sheet was prepared under the following conditions. For the sheet stock cold rolled steel sheet of a thickness of 0.8 mm was used. The surface roughness of this sheet stock was adjusted by changing the roll roughness of the rolling rolls used in the skin pass mill after continuous annealing. The roll roughness was given by a discharge dulling process. This sheet stock was electrogalvanized using an electrogalvanization facility. The electrogalvanization was performed in an acidic zinc sulfate bath at a current density of 50 to 100 A dmby a line speed of 50 to 120 m min.

Hot dip galvanized steel sheet was prepared under the following conditions. For the sheet stock cold rolled steel sheet of a thickness of 0.8 mm was used. This sheet stock was hot dip galvanized using a hot dip galvanization facility. The zinc bath was a Zn 0.2 wt Al bath of a temperature of 460 C. The sheet stock reduced in a hydrogen nitrogen reducing atmosphere down to 800 C. was cooled to a sheet temperature of 480 C. and was then dipped in the bath. Two seconds after dipping it was taken out and wiped by nitrogen gas to control the amount of plating deposited. The line speed was 100 m min. The surface was given roughness by an in line temper rolling mill after plating.

The plated surface configuration was measured in accordance with JIS B 0651. The apparatus used was a Surfcom 1400A stylus type surface roughness meter made by Tokyo Seimitsu. Further the microscopic region roughness was measured using a field emission electron beam 3D roughness analyzer ERA 8900FE made by Elionix.

The rolling force of the metal rolls to the coating section after plating was changed from opening to 3000 N mm to change the crushed state of the sheet stock projecting parts. The thin film primary rust preventive coating was coated by a roll coater to a film thickness of 0.1 to 6 m and baked in a drying oven to a sheet temperature of 150 C. For the resin coating a polyolefin resin Hitec S 7024 made by Toho Chemical was added to pure water to give a resin solid concentration of 20 wt ammonium phosphate was dissolved to give a concentration of phosphoric acid ions of 1 g L then water based silica Snowtex N made by Nissan Chemical was added in an amount of 25 g L to obtain a primary rust preventive coating agent. On the other hand for the inorganic resin based coating CT E300N made by Nihon Parkerizing was used. For the inorganic coating a primary rust preventive coating agent prepared by adding 50 wt of fluorozirconic acid and 50 wt of a silane coupling agent to pure water and adjusting the pH by phosphoric acid to 3.0 was used.

The corrosion resistance of the obtained test piece was judged by corroding the piece by the salt water spray test method of JIS Z 2371 for 72 hours and determining the area rate of the white rust on the surface. A white rust of 1 or less was evaluated as A one of 5 or less as B and one greater than 5 as C . A and B were designated as passing and C as failing. The conductivity was measured by a LORESTA EP made by Mitsubishi Chemical. The contacter was an ESP type 4 probe type with a contacter front end of a diameter of 2 mm and a distance between terminals of 5 mm. The number of times of conduction at a surface resistance of 1 m or less by a contacter load of 1.5 N contacter and a test current of 100 mA among 20 times at different positions was judged. Conduction 20 times was evaluated as A conduction 10 times to 19 times as B and nine times or less as C . A and B were designated as passing and C as failing.

Table 1 shows the surface properties of the plating layer and the surface properties of the microscopic region plating layer while Table 2 shows the data of the plating layer and the thin film primary rust preventive coating layer. Examples 1 to 39 are examples of the present invention.

Table 3 summarizes the results of evaluation of the corrosion resistance after 72 hours of SST and the results of evaluation of the surface conductivity. Examples 1 to 39 are excellent in both corrosion resistance and conductivity and achieve both performances at all levels while Comparative Examples 1 to 10 are poor in either corrosion resistance or conductivity and do not achieve both performances.

The zinc or zinc alloy plated steel sheet of the present invention can be used as surface treated steel sheet superior in conductivity and corrosion resistance. In particular it can be used for applications where surface conductivity is required such as housings of copiers facsimiles and other office automation equipment or PC cases AV equipment etc. where grounding is required.

