---

title: Probabilistic classifier
abstract: A computer-implemented method for probabilistically classifying an occurrence of an event, a change in the state of a target, includes measuring feature data of the target simultaneously processing the measured feature data through first and second filters. The first filter is suited for a situation in which the target is in a first state and generates a first residual and a first residual covariance for the measured feature data. The second filter is suited for a situation in which the target is in a second state and generates a second residual and a second residual covariance for the feature data. By determining a probability of the occurrence of the event and the probability of the non-occurrence of the event and comparing the two probabilities with at least one threshold value the occurrence or non-occurrence of the event is determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08085186&OS=08085186&RS=08085186
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08085186
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080723
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract Grant BMD 4.0. The United States Government has a non exclusive non transferable paid up license in this invention.

Many probabilistic classification methods are used to allow machine e.g. computers to classify or identify objects. However accurate automated methods of identifying or recognizing an occurrence of an event has not been available.

The following summary is a description of one preferred embodiment of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention and is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for probabilistically classifying a change in the state of a target being monitored is disclosed. During a defined time duration a feature data associated with the target is measured. The measured feature data is simultaneously processed through first and second filters. The first filter is suited for a situation in which the target is in a first state and generates a first residual and a first residual covariance for the measured feature data. The second filter is suited for a situation in which the target is in a second state and generates a second residual and a second residual covariance for the feature data. Next a probability of the first state is determined from the first residual and the first residual covariance and a probability of the second state is determined from the second residual and the second residual covariance. The state of the target is then determined by comparing the probabilities of the first and second states to a threshold value wherein the target is deemed to be in the first state if the probability of the first state is greater than the threshold value and the target is deemed to be in the second state if the probability of the second state is greater than the threshold value.

The method of the present disclosure is applicable to probabilistically classifying a change in the state of a target being monitored. The target is monitored by sensing or measuring one or more features of the target where the features are something whose monitored characteristics changes as the target goes from state A to sate B. This will be referred to herein as the feature data. In one preferred embodiment the monitoring of the target is performed by a computerized system comprising a processor in which a set of coded programming instructions are executed to perform the method of the present disclosure.

Referring to the flow diagram of generally the target is monitored for a duration of time in order to determine whether the target is in state A or state B. During that monitoring time the input feature data is received from an observed event See block . The current data value of each of the sensed feature data is stored together with a set of previous data values for each of the features See block .

According to an embodiment a selected duration of the feature data including the current value is simultaneously processed through two parallel filters having a fixed filter lag See block . The fixed filter lag is a fixed duration utilized to improve computational efficiency by reducing error in near real time processing. The probabilities of state A and state B are calculated from the output of the each filters the residuals and residual covariances . The probabilities identify the target s state.

The filters are probabilistic classifiers that recognize the state in which the target exists. The first filter designated filter is suited for a situation in which the target is in state A and generates first residuals and first residual covariance See block . The second filter designated filter is suited for a situation in which the target is in state B and generates second residuals and second residual covariance See block .

The first filter generates a pair of a first residual and a first residual covariance for each of the feature data as they are received and collected during the monitoring period. The second filter generates a pair of a second residual and a second residual covariance for each of the feature data as they are received and collected during the monitoring period.

From the sets of first residuals the first residual covariances the second residuals and the second residual covariances the probability of state A and the probability of state B are respectively determined See block . The probability of state A tends toward unity when the target is in state A and tends toward zero when the target is in state B. The probability of state B tends toward unity when the target is in state B and tends toward zero when the target is in state A.

Then the probability of state A and the probability of state B are compared with at least one threshold value a predetermined value set prior to the processing of the feature data through the two filters See block . The target is deemed to be in the state A if the probability of state A exceeds the threshold value and the target is deemed to be in the state B if the probability of state B exceeds the threshold value.

In one preferred embodiment the probabilistic classification method is applied to monitoring whether an incoming hostile ballistic missile was a successfully intercepted by an interceptor i.e. a kill or a no kill. The target in such example is the incoming ballistic missile target is monitored by sensing and processing reflected radar signals from the target through a radar and signal processor and storing the collected information pertaining to the target as sets of feature data. In this example the state A of the incoming ballistic object can be a no kill state meaning the interceptor missed and the state B of the incoming ballistic object can be a kill state meaning the interceptor successfully intercepted the incoming ballistic object.

The feature data can be sensed data on one or more features of the incoming ballistic missile that can be discerned from the reflected radar signal. One example of such feature is the length of the ballistic missile. The first filter filter is suited for a situation in which the ballistic missile is in state A a no kill state and generates first residuals and first residual covariances. At least a portion of the current value of the feature data is passed through a second filter having a fixed second filter lag. The second filter filter is suited for a situation in which the ballistic missile is in state B a kill state and generates second residuals and second residual covariances.

The filter comprises the following components The filter predictor equation x x the filter gain equation

The filter comprises the following components The filter predictor equations and dot over x dot over x the filter gain equations

As the series of measured feature data points are processed through the two filters for the very first measured feature data point x xis deemed to be equal to xand in turn xis deemed to be equal to x.

As mentioned above for every data point in time a residual Vand a residual covariance Sare determined by each of the filter and the filters. A residual is and a residual covariance is

From the first residuals the first residual covariances the second residuals and the second residual covariances the probability of no kill state A and the probability of kill state B are determined. The mode probabilities are represented by

The probability of no kill tends toward unity when the target object has not been successfully intercepted and tends toward zero when the target object has been successfully intercepted. The probability of kill tends toward unity when the target object has been successfully intercepted and tends toward zero when the target object has not been successfully intercepted.

The probability of no kill and the probability of kill are compared with at least one threshold value TH a predetermined value set prior to feature data filtering and the state of the target object is deemed a kill if the probability of kill exceeds the threshold value TH and the state of the target object is deemed to be a no kill if the probability of no kill exceeds the threshold value TH. The threshold value TH is determined appropriately for each application such that the system noise does not affect the probability calculations. For example imagine that the probability of kill in was to initially fluctuate between 0.4 and 0.6 over time and after some duration grows to 0.8. If a TH value was previously determined to be 0.7 the probability would have crossed the TH and would be declared a kill. However if the TH value was previously determined to be 0.9 the TH value would not be exceeded and therefore a No Kill would be declared. Thus the output of the present method can be used to determine the appropriate follow on action. After engagement by the interceptor the target may exist in a kill state where the target is no longer deemed a threat or in a no kill state where the target is still considered a threat.

The above exemplary application of the method for determining whether an incoming ballistic object such as a hostile missile was successfully intercepted or not by an interceptor will be described further in conjunction with the . shows a plot over time of a series of measured feature data values. shows a plot over time of the residuals output from the two filters. The plot line Residual represents the plot of residuals from the first filter filter suited for state A no kill . The plot line Residual represents the plot of residuals from the second filter filter suited for state B kill . shows a plot over time of the mode probabilities calculated from the residuals and the residual covariances generated by the two filters. In this example the mode probability of no kill reaches the value zero. The mode probability of kill reaches the value of 1. The time point T shown in represent the time point when the target was intercepted by an interceptor. After a time duration T the mode probabilities and calculated by the method of the present disclosure have reached distinguishable values 1 or 0 and can classify the state of the target object as being in the killed state state B . In other words the mode probability of kill has attained the value of 1. 

Another exemplary application of the method of the present disclosure is for automated trading of stocks or mutual funds. The feature data can be the stock s share price and if the price of a stock rises or falls beyond the normal fluctuation within a sliding window of time the computer implemented method of the present disclosure can recognize such fluctuation as a change in the state of the particular stock and shares of the stock can be automatically bought or sold. The sliding window of time can be any selected duration from minutes to years.

In another example the method can be used to monitor a patient s medical state. The feature data can be any feature of the patient that can be monitored and observed by a sensor.

In another example the method can be used for monitoring traffic congestion. A counter can monitor the speed and number of cars on a highway in a set duration. If the number and speed decreases beyond the normal fluctuation the highway may be deemed congested and an alert may be sent to parties interested in this type of information.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a computerized system for executing the method described herein is schematically illustrated in . The system comprises a sensor device for measuring the feature data. In the illustrated example where an interception of an incoming ballistic missile is monitored by the system the sensor device can be a radar system for tracking and monitoring the incoming ballistic missile and sensing one or more characteristic feature data related to the target incoming ballistic missile. The system also includes a computer processor system that receives the feature data from the sensor device . The computer processor system is preferably configured and adapted to execute a computer program code which when executed by the computer processor system the computer processor system performs the method for probabilistically classifying a change in the state of the target incoming ballistic missile being monitored. The system also can include a user interface device for displaying printing or otherwise delivering the output of the method of the present disclosure to the system s user. In one preferred embodiment the computer processor system is provided with one or more data storage devices necessary for operation of a typical computer processor system as well known in the art. The computer program code can be tangibly embodied in a computer readable storage medium as a software and loaded on to the computer processor system or the computer program code can be provided in the computer processor system as a firmware. Such computer readable storage medium can be a random access memory device a read only memory device a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a Compact Disc a DVD etc.

Although the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the invention which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the invention.

