---

title: Method and device for managing communication channels for data exchange from an aircraft
abstract: A method and device for managing communication channels for data exchange from an aircraft establishes at least one connection path between the aircraft and at least one ground entity with a plurality of communication channels of at least two different types. After detecting an event such as modification of a communication channel condition or a modification of aircraft position, a communication configuration enabling the aircraft to receive or transmit data from or to the ground entity via at least one of the communication channels is determined. A mechanism for establishing at least one connection path is then adapted based on the communication configuration. Advantageously, the transmission of at least one datum includes determining a priority level of the datum and determining the type of communication channel of the connection path, the datum being transmitted if the determined type of communication channel is compatible with the priority level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676191&OS=08676191&RS=08676191
owner: Airbus Operations S.A.S.
number: 08676191
owner_city: Toulouse
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20080404
---
The present invention relates to the field of avionics communications and more particularly to a method and device for managing communication channels for data exchanges from an aircraft capable in particular of permitting asynchronous exchanges of digital messages between the information system of an airplane and that of the airline company on the ground with the aid of several communications means.

The needs for information exchange between an airplane and the ground are increasing with the development of airplanes. These needs are related in particular to updates of the different components of the airplane information system to the transmission of flight information items from the ground stations to the transmission of maintenance information items from the airplane to optimize the costs and to the services offered to the passengers.

It is appropriate to distinguish the exchanges of information between the airplane and the ground and the exchanges of information between several systems of the airplane related to the airplane or to the passengers. The systems present in the airplane are able to communicate with one another by standard communication means such as by hard wired networks or by wireless networks especially WiFi Wireless Fidelity networks of 802.11a b g type.

The links between an airplane and the ground are generally specific to the airplanes. For example the ATN communication system Aeronautical Telecommunication Network AGARS ARINC Communication Addressing and Reporting System makes it possible to exchange coded data between the airplane and the ground via VDL VHF Digital Link Mode S or satellite links.

The costs of specific links between an airplane and the ground are generally higher than those of open world communication systems such as WiFi WiMax Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access GSM Global System for Mobile Communications GPRS General Packet Radio Service UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System MPDS Mobile Packet Data Service or SBB Swift Broad Band . In addition these open world communication systems often offer performances superior to those encountered in the avionics world and they are undergoing a rapid technological evolution. However they may reach maturity and or become obsolete in less than ten years potentially representing a serious handicap in the aeronautical field where development and standardization time is long.

A major disadvantage of solutions used for communications between airplanes and the ground is that they are incapable of satisfying the double need of furnishing a single air to ground system for communication with all of the applications installed on board the airplane taking into account in particular the management of priorities and costs and of permitting the addition of new technologies such as HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access without impacting the existing communication system so as to accelerate the time for integration of these technologies.

The object of the invention is therefore a method for communication of data in an aircraft comprising means capable of establishing at least one connection path between the said aircraft and at least one entity on the ground according to a plurality of communication channels of at least two different types this method being characterized in that it comprises the following steps 

The method according to the invention therefore makes it possible to employ new media or new applications without substantial modification of the communication system. It also makes it possible to adapt easily to future evolutions of communications media especially to evolutions of media in terms of communication security.

According to a particular embodiment the method additionally comprises a step of transmitting at least one datum the said transmission step comprising the following steps 

The method according to the invention therefore permits adapted management of the messages to be transmitted.

Advantageously to simplify the implementation of the method a destination address of the said at least one entity on the ground is associated with each priority level the said at least one datum being transmitted to the destination address associated with the priority level of the said at least one datum.

According to a particular embodiment the determination of the said compatibility of the said determined communication channel with the said priority level is a function of is determined by at least one configuration parameter. This embodiment offers an easy configuration of the modes of transmission of messages.

According to another particular embodiment the said event is related to the state of the said communication channels or to the position of the said aircraft.

According to another particular embodiment the method additionally comprises a step of accessing at least one datum to be transmitted the format of the said at least one accessed datum being independent of the communication channel of the said at least one connection path. In this way the applications using the communication method are independent of the media used.

Another object of the invention is a computer program comprising instructions capable of employing each of the steps of the method described in the foregoing.

Another object of the invention is a device for communication of data in an aircraft comprising means capable of establishing at least one connection path between the said aircraft and at least one entity on the ground according to a plurality of communication channels of at least two different types this device being characterized in that it comprises the following means 

The device according to the invention therefore makes it possible to employ new media or new applications without substantial modification of the communication system. It also makes it possible to adapt easily to future evolutions of communications media especially to evolutions of media in terms of communication security.

According to a particular embodiment the device additionally comprises means for transmitting at least one datum the said transmission means comprising the following means 

Advantageously the device additionally comprises means for storing the data to be transmitted in memory the said data to be transmitted being stored in memory according to priority levels associated with the said data to be transmitted a destination address of the said at least one entity on the ground being associated with each priority level.

According to another particular embodiment the said means for detecting an event are capable of detecting a modification of the state of the said communication channels or the position of the said aircraft in order to determine the preferred communication channel.

The object of the invention is a communication method and device capable of managing in native manner the asynchronous exchange of data preferably in the form of digital messages between a mobile entity such as an airplane and the ground according to several communication channels as a function of their availabilities and the policy adopted by the airline company. In particular such a policy may be established as a function of the geographic zone of the phase of flight and of the priority of the messages to be transmitted. The messages are transmitted for example in the form of IP Internet Protocol packets.

Airplane preferably comprises an application server not represented a communication server and a wireless communication interface capable of transmitting and receiving data according to several communication channels. The communication channels illustrated here are related to satellite communications to WiMax communications to communications according to mobile telephony technologies such as GSM GPRS and UMTS and to WiFi communications.

On the ground a communication server connected to application servers is connected to a network such as the Internet preferably via a protective device firewall . Network is itself connected to a plurality of wireless communication networks such as satellite network WiMax network network of GSM GPRS or UMTS type and network preferably via protective devices to respectively. Each of the wireless communication networks to comprises at least one wireless communication interface referenced to respectively making it possible to transmit and receive data according to the associated protocol. Thus satellite network is capable of receiving data from satellite and transmitting data from satellite satellite itself being capable of transmitting data to or from wireless communication interface of airplane . Similarly WiMax network is capable of receiving or transmitting data from or to wireless communication interface of airplane . The same is true for networks and . Although shows only a single general wireless communication interface wireless communication interface is preferably composed of several wireless communication interfaces one per communication channel or in other words in the present case an interface for communications via satellites an interface of WiMax type an interface of GSM GPRS or UMTS type and an interface of WiFi type.

When the airplane is on the ground or in proximity to the ground wireless communication interface of the airplane is capable of communicating with wireless communication interfaces and with wireless communication interfaces to it is assumed here that the ground environment of the airplane is provided with these wireless communication interfaces . When the airplane is in the air at a distance from wireless communication interfaces to greater than the communication range of these interfaces only wireless communication interface of the satellite network may be used.

The communication bus permits communication and interoperability among the different elements included in apparatus or connected thereto. The depiction of the bus is not limitative and in particular the central unit is capable of communicating instructions to any element of apparatus directly or by way of another element of apparatus .

The executable code of each program permitting the programmable apparatus to employ the method according to the invention may be stored for example on hard disk or in read only memory .

According to one variant diskette may contain data as well as the aforesaid executable code of programs which once read by apparatus will be stored on hard disk .

In a second variant the executable code of the programs may be received by way of communication network via interface to be stored in a manner identical to that described in the foregoing.

The diskettes may be replaced by any information medium such as for example a compact disk CD ROM or a memory card. In general the diskettes may be replaced by information storage means that can be read by a computer or by a microprocessor that may or may not be integrated in the apparatus that may be removable and that are capable of storing in memory one or more programs whose execution permits implementation of the method according to the invention.

More generally it will be possible to load the program or programs into one of the storage means of apparatus before they are executed.

Central unit will command and direct the execution of instructions or portions of software code of the program or programs according to the invention such instructions being stored on hard disk in read only memory or in the other aforesaid storage elements. During boot up the program or programs stored in a non volatile memory such as hard disk or read only memory are transferred to random access memory which then contains the executable code of the program or programs according to the invention as well as registers for storing in memory the variables and parameters necessary for implementation of the invention.

It should be noted that the communication apparatus containing the device according to the invention may also be a programmed apparatus. This apparatus then contains the code of the networking program or programs for example fixed in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Communication controller and OAMS module are connected to a device comprising avionic data such as a memory or a database whose information items are obtained from transducers or originate from flight computers. These avionic data are used in particular to determine which communication channels may be used. The communication controller controls in particular network equipment items of the airplane. The network equipment items make it possible to establish a connection between the airplane and the ground.

Data exchange between the OAMS and GAMS modules is achieved via communication interfaces and capable of employing several types of communication channels. The configuration of communication channels of communication interface is controlled by communication controller .

The information flow established between communication controller and network equipment items is a configuration flow which comprises the commands transmitted by the communication controller to the network equipment items in order to update the configuration thereof.

The information flow established between communication interface and device between device and communication controller and between a configuration file related to the policy of the airline company and communication controller is a supervision flow which comprises information items about updating avionic data via communication interface and via communication controller .

Finally the data flow established between communication interface network equipment items and OAMS module comprises the data exchanged between OAMS module and GAMS module along the different available connection paths.

This distribution of communication system provides in particular that the application elements in charge of data transmission are not impacted by the addition removal or modification of types of communication channels. All of the problems of network configuration are therefore dissociated from the message delivery application layer. This is also true for the airline company s infrastructures for which the routes between the airplane and the ground will be transparent. In this way it is possible to develop functionalities without fear that these functionalities will have to be modified upon each addition removal or modification of the type of communication channel. The application interface between application elements and OAMS module is advantageously standardized to mask the problems of data exchange for the developers of on board applications and thus to decorrelate the versions of applications implemented in the airplane from OAMS module .

According to a first embodiment communication controller is an application service installed on a server on board the airplane comprising dedicated connectors interfaced with an avionic database indicating in particular the phase of flight of the airplane and with configuration files defining the policy of the airline company in the matter of communication such as the moment at which the satellite may be used. These two types of information item permit communication controller to calculate in real time the configuration of network equipment items necessary for establishment of end to end links between OAMS module implemented in the airplane and GAMS module implemented on the ground. Communication controller preferably operates only at the low layers of the OSI module and establishes in real time the connection paths as a function of the availability of communication channels of the phases of flight and of the policy of the airline company. This adaptability in establishment of connection paths makes it possible to optimize the communications of the airplane as a function in particular of the priority of messages and of the cost of use of each communication channel.

It should be noted here that a GAMS module centralizes the communications of a fleet of airplanes or in other words the communications established with several OAMS modules or several hundred OAMS modules one per airplane for example thus permitting an airline company to manage the exchanges of messages with its airplanes in centralized and therefore simplified manner.

Although OAMS module and GAMS module exhibit certain similarities they differ in several points. Firstly according to a particular embodiment data storage is achieved within a database for GAMS module whereas it is achieved directly in the file manager of the server for the OAMS module. In addition since the airplane is always the initiator of communications the servlets of the OAMS module are in charge of sending or sending back the data from or to the airplane while the servlets of the GAMS module must receive or provide messages from or to the airplane. The exchange of messages is bidirectional even though it is the communication system implemented in the airplane that is always the initiator of this exchange. Thus the OAMS module behaves as a client while the GAMS module behaves as a server.

The communication system according to the invention can therefore be analyzed according to three layers 

As mentioned in the foregoing the network layer is controlled by the communication controller which is in charge of establishing the connection paths necessary for the communication of the two modules OAMS and GAMS. The communication controller comprises a routing engine that uses avionic data obtained from a database for example in order to control network equipment items. The routing engine of the communication controller can be likened to a simple state machine.

The transition between a waiting state and a routing state is advantageously triggered by one or more avionic events derived from the modification of one or more parameters capable of representing the state of a communication channel or a simple flight information item. The state of a communication channel comprises for example its availability. A flight information item is for example the geographic position of the airplane relative to the ground if necessary compared with a threshold to determine a ground position and an in the air position.

When the communication controller is in the routing state it determines the configuration of network equipment items in order to take possible changes into account. For example if the WiFi communication channel is available and the phase of flight so permits for example if the airplane is on the ground and the policy of the airline company so requires route of defined priority the communication controller configures the network equipment items so as to establish a WiFi connection path. The controller then indicates the establishment of this connection path in the avionic database. Configuration of network equipment items can be achieved by the creation and transmission of configuration scripts the scripts being created by the communication controller and transmitted to the network equipment items.

When all of the network equipment items have been configured and network parameters or flight parameters have not been modified the communication controller goes into a waiting state in which it monitors the modifications of network parameters and flight parameters.

When a communication channel is available or in other words when the communication interface has detected the possibility of emitting and receiving data from this communication channel the communication interface transmits this information to the avionic database step . Detection of the possibility of emitting and receiving data from a communication channel is related to the nature of the detection channel. This detection is achieved according to the standard protocol used for the communication channel in question. When the communication controller identifies the modification of the network parameter in the avionic database step the modification of the network parameter being related to the availability of the communication channel the communication controller determines a new configuration for the network equipment items according to the flight parameters to the available communication channels and to the policy of the airline company and it transmits this new configuration to the network equipment items step . The network equipment items modify their configuration and preferably transmit an acknowledgment of receipt to the communication controller step . The communication controller then transmits the information to the effect that the new communication channel is available to the avionic database step . When the OAMS module detects the modification of the avionic database to the effect that a new communication channel is available step the OAMS module can use this communication channel.

In a preferred embodiment the modifications of the avionic database are detected by the communication controller and by the OAMS module. However it must be considered here that a monitoring module may be associated with the avionic database to inform the communication controller and or the OAMS module of any change.

When the modification of a flight parameter such as the position of the airplane is identified by the communication controller step the communication controller determines a new configuration for the network equipment items according to the flight parameters to the available communication channels and to the policy of the airline company and it transmits this new configuration to the network equipment items step . The network equipment items modify their configuration and preferably transmit an acknowledgment of receipt to the communication controller step . The communication controller then transmits the information to the effect that a new communication channel is available that a communication channel is no longer available or that the parameters of a communication channel have been modified in the avionic database step . When the OAMS module detects this modification in the avionic database step the OAMS module modifies its parameters so as to take these modifications into account.

The data layer used for data exchange is employed by the OAMS and GAMS modules in charge of controlling data exchange between an airplane and the ground. The data layer situated between the network and application layers uses the connection paths configured by the communication controller. The control of data transfer is therefore independent of the control of the communication channels.

The OAMS module and the GAMS module are implemented for example within J2EE application servers Java 2 Enterprise Edition in the form of Java servlet Java is a trademark . The OAMS module may be of the traditional type of client server architecture where the API Application Programming Interface of the OAMS module is the client and the OAMS module is the server. Similarly the GAMS module may be composed of an API of the GAMS module of the GAMS module and of a database. The applications coded in Java and in C for example may be interfaced with these two servers by means of two APIs one for the OAMS module and one for the GAMS module. These are able to communicate with the servers within an http flow HyperText Transfer Protocol .

The message exchanges of BtoB type Business to Business between the OAMS module and the GAMS module may be encapsulated in an HTTPS flow at the initiative of the aircraft preferably using X509 certificates for authentication in order to satisfy the requirements of security of communications between airplanes and the ground.

The requests for applications received by http server are transmitted to the application server in this case J2EE application server Java 2 Enterprise Edition of Java virtual machine JVM Java Virtual Machine . The results of the requests are transmitted to http server by application server .

Advantageously application server comprises a Java servlet container for processing the requests for applications by means of two dedicated services and of the send and fetch type respectively. The send service assures transmission of messages to the GAMS module while the fetch service is in charge of recovering the messages waiting on the same server in memory .

To assure these tasks these two services are interfaced with avionic database in order to verify the availability of communication channels with http server in order to communicate with the applications and with the implementation of an https client to communicate securely with the ground information system. It should be noted that the OAMS module additionally comprises an interface with a file manager of the server for storage in memory of messages waiting to be sent to the ground information system or to be recovered by applications . Within memory the messages are preferably organized into dedicated message boxes for each application.

Similarly a front end http server of GAMS module receives requests for applications from ground information system via GAMS APIs . Front end http server of GAMS module also receives the requests for applications from OAMS modules of airplane information systems via tunnels of TLS type Transport Layer Security . The responses to the requests for applications are transmitted by http server to application server via GAMS APIs and to applications via tunnels .

The requests for applications are transmitted by http server to the services of servlet container of J2EE application server of Java virtual machine . The results of the requests are transmitted to http server by application server .

Just as the OAMS module the GAMS module advantageously comprises two dedicated services and known as message provider and receive respectively. Message provider service makes the messages available to the OAMS modules in question while receive service receives the messages from http server and distributes them in the message boxes of a memory or of a database . Thus the two services and are interfaced with database in order to store the messages in dedicated message boxes which are preferably organized in the same way as in the OAMS modules or in other words dedicated to each application with the sole exception that the GAMS module must manage several airplanes and therefore must group the message boxes for each aircraft and for each priority.

OAMS API and GAMS API serve to mask the problems of communication with the applications of the airplane and ground information systems. These APIs therefore form a facade whereby all the functionalities of the OWAG CS communication system can be used. These APIs which can be coded in Java and in C in order to be integrated in already existing applications are based on the data layer formed by the OAMS and GAMS modules and they communicate natively in http with the front end http servers of the OAMS and GAMS modules.

The message layer offers the applications of the airplane information systems and of the ground information system an advanced mechanism for managing priorities for the exchange of messages between the airplanes and the ground. illustrates this mechanism for managing priorities for the messages transmitted by airplanes.

The applications of the airplane information system referenced to can transmit messages to the OAMS module via OAMS APIs referenced to respectively. The OAMS module preferably comprises a memory composed of memory elements of FIFO type First In First Out and capable of receiving the messages emitted by applications to . The messages stored in memory are transmitted to a TCP IP stack Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol which breaks the message down into IP packets in which the IP address is determined according to the priority of the message. An information item about the service quality associated with the priority level of DSCP type Differentiated Services Code Point is then added to these IP packets which are then transmitted to the communication interface via network equipment items controlled by communication controller . The communication interface is composed of several elements especially of a satellite communication interface element of a WiMax communication interface element of a communication interface element in conformity with at least certain mobile telephone technologies such as GSM GPRS and UMTS and of a WiFi communication interface element .

Each memory element and corresponds to a priority level. In the present case three priority levels are used low medium and high. When an application sends a message it associates a priority level therewith. Upon reception of a message the OAMS module analyzes the priority level and stores the message in the memory element of FIFO type corresponding to the priority level of the message. For example if a message of low priority is received it is stored in memory element if a message of medium priority is received it is stored in memory element and if a message of high priority is received it is stored in memory element .

The priority level is used by the OAMS module to process the received messages and to determine their mode of transfer to the GAMS module.

The IP addresses used by the IP module to transform a message into IP packets are predetermined addresses. Advantageously one IP address exists per priority level. Similarly one DSCP value exists per priority level. This relationship between the priority level of a message and the destination IP address on the ground makes it possible to have a simple correlation between a decision made at the application level or in other words a choice of priority level and the packet routing decisions managed by the network equipment items at a lower level or in other words at the IP level.

Similarly and to complete the preceding mechanism the DSCP field of the IP packets is completed by a predefined value based on the priority of the message in order to permit better handling of packets by the network infrastructures. For example an IP packet having a high DSCP field will have to be treated with priority by the routers through which it passes. It should be recalled here that a DSCP value corresponds to a field that is located in an IP packet and that allows attributing different levels of service to the network traffic.

The type of transmission between the airplane and the ground is managed by the communication controller which determines the connection paths to each of the three possible IP addresses of the GAMS according to the availability of the different communication channels and in conformity with the policy of the airline company. The following table accessible by the communication controller illustrates one possible example of the policy of an airline company.

In this example the airline company gives preference to the communication means that are the least expensive while exhibiting good performances but with limited coverage zones. If a connection of WiFi type cannot be established a connection of mobile telephony type is authorized for the high and medium priorities provided it is accessible. If these means are not available a satellite connection offering an extended coverage zone but incurring high utilization costs and very poor performances is authorized solely for the high priorities. When the types of communication channels are not authorized for certain priority levels the corresponding messages must wait until an authorized communication channel becomes available before they can be sent.

The messages in this case are messages having any format whatsoever with which there are associated a priority level a source address and a destination address. When a message to be transmitted and the associated information items are broken down into IP packets the associated information items are no longer directly accessible and they become so only after reconstruction of the message which takes place according to a standard mechanism corresponding to the mechanism for breakdown into IP packets. Alternatively the messages may themselves comprise the complementary information items such as the priority level and the source and destination addresses.

In this way memory makes it possible to store messages that have to be transmitted via a communication channel that is not accessible and also to manage a mechanism for resumption following an error so that the transfer of a message between the OAMS and GAMS modules can be resumed after a temporary break of the communication channel being used at the exact point at which the transfer was interrupted. After a loss of connectivity the OAMS module signals to the GAMS module that it is resuming the transfer of a message.

The OAMS module may comprise monitoring functionalities and the GAMS module may comprise monitoring and statistics functionalities. Monitoring allows an application to query its communication server about the state of sending of its messages for example 20 of the first message and 50 of the second and about the time and date of the last connection. The information may be obtained via requests for the application. The statistics functionalities of the GAMS module permit the information system administrator of the airline company to have a general state of the system such as the number of messages sent successfully the number of failures or the volume exchanged.

Although the description of the transmission of a message has been described as originating from an OAMS module the transmission of a message from a GAMS module is similar.

It should be noted that the transmissions of messages may be of unicast type from one system to another or of multicast type from one system to several others or in other words from one application of the information system of one airplane to one application of the ground information system and vice versa or from one application of the information system of one airplane to several applications of the ground information system or from one application of the ground information system to several applications of the information system of one airplane or of several airplanes.

For security reasons it is preferable to prohibit sending of messages from the ground to the ground or from an airplane to an airplane.

According to a second embodiment of the invention the interfaces between the applications and the two servers of the OAMS and GAMS modules are different. They are not developed upon proprietary APIs but are constructed as Web services . The advantage of such an implementation is that the two servers communicating within the airplane information system and or the ground information system can be integrated directly by virtue of a complete SOA solution Service Oriented Architecture .

The modification consists mainly in having that the SOAP protocol Simple Object Access Protocol supported natively by the OAMS and GAMS interfaces and the specification of these same interfaces distributed within the SOA infrastructure according to the WSDL format Web Service Description Language .

In this second embodiment therefore the SSL Secure Socket Layer TLS part of the GAMS module is replaced by an equipment item that natively manages this type of session as illustrated in . Such modifications are motivated by the fact that in this way the system can become interoperable with the commercially available EAI solutions Enterprise Application Integration and that the performances of the system are appreciably improved thereby.

The requests for applications received by http server are transmitted to the application server in this case J2EE application server of Java virtual machine JVM . The results of the requests are transmitted to http server by application server .

Advantageously application server comprises a Java servlet container for processing the requests for applications by virtue of a web service WS and of two dedicated services and of the send and fetch type respectively. The send service assures transmission of messages to the GAMS module while the fetch service is in charge of recovering the messages waiting on the same server in memory .

To assure these tasks these two services are interfaced with avionic database in order to verify the availability of communication channels with http server in order to communicate with the applications and with the implementation of an https client to communicate securely with the ground information system. It should be noted that the OAMS module additionally comprises an interface with a file manager of the server for storage in memory of messages waiting to be sent to the ground information system or to be recovered by applications . Within memory the messages are preferably organized into dedicated message boxes for each application.

Similarly a front end http server of GAMS module receives requests for applications and the number of applications is not limited from ground information system via EAI interface . EAI interface in this case comprises JMS Java Message Service and Corba interfaces capable of exchanging data with the JMS and Corba clients of applications and . Front end http server of GAMS module also receives the requests for applications from OAMS modules of airplane information systems via an externalized TLS module . The responses to the requests for applications are transmitted by http server to application servers and via EAI interface and to applications via externalized TLS module .

The requests for applications are transmitted by http server to the services of servlet container of J2EE application server of Java virtual machine . The results of the requests are transmitted to http server by application server .

Just as the OAMS module the GAMS module advantageously comprises a web service WS and two dedicated services and known as message provider and receive respectively. Message provider service makes the messages available to the OAMS modules in question while receive service receives the messages from http server and distributes them in the message boxes of a memory or of a database . Thus the two services and are interfaced with database in order to store the messages in dedicated message boxes which are preferably organized in the same way as in the OAMS modules or in other words dedicated to each application with the sole exception that the GAMS module must manage several airplanes and therefore must group the message boxes for each aircraft and for each priority.

The use of interfaces of the web service type makes it possible not to use proprietary APIs necessary for the applications to communicate with the communication system. Nevertheless it is possible to retain a dedicated connector for the interface with the EAI.

Web services and added into the servlet containers of the OAMS module and of the GAMS module have the function of recovering the SOAP requests emitted by the client applications via an interface described in WSDL and of transmitting them to the other services.

Naturally to satisfy specific needs a person competent in the field of the invention will be able to apply modifications in the foregoing description.

