---

title: Assessing users who provide content
abstract: Techniques are described for assessing users who provide content, such as based on the provided content and/or on aspects of how/when the content is provided. In at least some situations, the users being assessed are author users who create some or all of the content that they provide, while in other situations users may provide other types of content (e.g., content that is identified and/or selected by the users, but not created by the users). Assessment of the content-providing users may be performed in various manners, such as to generate one or more user contribution scores or other user contribution ratings for some or all such users, such as to reflect a combination of multiple factors (e.g., a quantity of pieces of content provided by a user, a recency of providing some or all of the content pieces, an assessed quality of the provided content pieces, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195522&OS=08195522&RS=08195522
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08195522
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080630
---
As the Internet and other online access to information continue to grow users are increasingly presented with an overabundance of available information content without effective means to manage it e.g. to identify content that is relevant accurate and enjoyable or to identify users who create content that has desired attributes. One particular example of an increasing source of content relates to merchants that make items e.g. products services information etc. available to customers for purchase rent lease license trade evaluation sampling subscription etc. such as via the World Wide Web the Web . Some Web merchants design their Web sites to display content in order to draw interest to items available from the Web site such as item reviews and item pictures that are prepared by the operator of the Web site or the manufacturer distributor of the item to provide additional information about an item. In addition in some cases volunteer users of a Web site such as customers of a merchant s Web site may prepare and supply at least some such content for use by other users.

Techniques are described for assessing users who provide content in various situations such as by assessing users based on the provided content and or on aspects of how and when the content is provided. In at least some embodiments the users being assessed are author users who create some or all of the content that they provide while in other embodiments and situations users may provide other types of content e.g. content that is identified and or selected by the users but not created by the users . In addition the content provided by the users may have various forms in various embodiments as discussed in greater detail below and may be used for various purposes.

The assessment of the author users and other content providing users may be performed in various manners in various embodiments such as to generate one or more user contribution scores or other user contribution ratings for some or all such users to reflect one or more attributes of interest regarding the provision of content by the users. As one example in some embodiments a user contribution rating for a content providing user is generated to reflect a combination of multiple factors e.g. a quantity of pieces of content provided by the user a recency of providing some or all of the content pieces an assessed quality of the provided content pieces a regularity of providing content pieces etc. such as to reward users with higher contribution ratings as they increase one or more such factors. Additional details regarding the assessment of content providing users are included below. In addition in at least some embodiments the described techniques are automatically performed by an automated User Contribution Rating system as described in greater detail below.

Once user contribution ratings are generated for one or more content providing users to reflect the prior providing of content by those users such user contribution ratings may be used to provide various benefits in various manners. For example in some embodiments user contribution ratings for some or all such content providing users may be publicly displayed or otherwise made available to those content providing users and or to other users such as to recognize a subset of the content providing users with the highest user contribution ratings e.g. to enhance the reputation of the recognized content providing users with other users to acknowledge the valuable contributions of such recognized content providing users etc. . To the extent that the user contribution ratings are generated in such a manner as to reward desired behavioral characteristics of the content providing users e.g. providing high quality content providing high quantities of content providing content recently and or regularly etc. such recognition of some or all content providing users may encourage those users and or other users to perform additional desired behavior e.g. to provide additional content in a desired manner . Furthermore in at least some embodiments the generated user contribution ratings for content providing users may be used at least in part to facilitate managing the content provided by those users such as by assisting in identifying content that has attributes of interest e.g. content that is useful humorous or that otherwise has a sufficiently high degree of quality .

A piece of content that is provided may have a variety of forms in various embodiments such as the following non exclusive list a product review or other item review a how to guide or other instructional information related to one or more topics a blog or blog blurb or other entry in or portion of a blog another form of textual passage e.g. a story poem recipe etc. a discussion board or message thread or an entry in such a board or thread a media file or streaming media clip e.g. a photo or other image a video a music sample or other audio clip etc. a user profile from a social networking site or other information related to social networking an advertisement a computer program or portion of computer code a software module or utility or library a list of related items or other elements e.g. pieces of information of one or more types indications of other lists or other content pieces etc. or other type of list etc. More generally a piece of content that is provided may in some embodiments be any information that has one or more attributes that can be evaluated by other users e.g. information that includes one or more factual assertions or opinions with the evaluations used to certify the accuracy and or truthfulness of those assertions or information that is to be evaluated based on one or more subjective standards such as elegance or beauty . Moreover in some embodiments the pieces of content may be user supplied such as supplied to a Web merchant or other online merchant for use by the merchant e.g. supplied by customers of the merchant for possible display to other customers . In other embodiments one or more of the previously indicated types of content pieces may be supplied to an online or other service that uses user supplied content pieces in various ways such as a fee based commercial content provision service that makes user supplied content pieces available to customers of the service as at least part of a business or such as a non commercial content provision services that makes user supplied content pieces available to other users without obtaining payment from those other users.

As previously noted in at least some embodiments a user contribution rating for a content providing user may be generated based at least in part on an assessed quality of the content provided by the user. In such embodiments the quality of provided content may be assessed in various ways. For example in some such embodiments the quality of a provided piece of content may be assessed based at least in part on evaluations of the piece of content e.g. votes on or other forms of rating of one or more attributes of the content that are obtained from evaluator users other than the author user or other content providing user who provided the content piece. In other embodiments assessment of the quality of a provided piece of content may be performed in other manners such as based at least in part on an automated analysis of the content piece. Additional details regarding assessment of content quality are included below and further details are included in the following patent applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 646 341 filed Aug. 22 2003 and entitled Managing Content Based On Reputation co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 290 623 filed Nov. 30 2005 and entitled Assessing Content Based on Assessed Trust in Users which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 646 341 filed Aug. 22 2003 and entitled Managing Content Based On Reputation and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 165 842 filed Jun. 24 2005 and entitled Exchanging User Reputation Information and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 096 699 filed Mar. 31 2005 and entitled Automatic Identification of Unreliable User Ratings. In addition in at least some embodiments in which votes ratings or other evaluations received from evaluator users are used to assess the quality and or other attributes of content pieces provided by content providing users the received evaluations may be pre processed in various ways before their use for the assessment such as to remove or otherwise reduce the influence of some evaluations if they are automatically determined to at least potentially be unreliable or have other defined characteristics that are not desired. Additional details related to such assessment of evaluations are included in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 165 398 filed concurrently and entitled Assessing User Supplied Evaluations which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The illustrated network may be for example a publicly accessible network of linked networks possibly operated by various distinct parties e.g. the Internet . In other embodiments the network may be a private network e.g. a corporate university etc. that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments the network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from other private and or public networks. In this illustrated example the various users and may use computing systems and or devices not shown to interact with the content management system to obtain various functionality and in doing so may obtain and or provide various types of information e.g. user provided content pieces evaluations etc. . The interactions of the users with the content management system may occur in various ways in various embodiments such as for example in an interactive manner via one or more graphical user interfaces provided to the users e.g. a graphical Web based user interface via a Web browser or in a programmatic manner based on an API application programming interface provided by the content management system to allow other computing systems and programs to programmatically invoke such functionality such as using Web services or other messaging or networking protocols.

In the illustrated embodiment the content management system may be operated by an entity that gathers and or distributes content with the entity optionally also operating the User Contribution Rating System in this example although in other embodiments the User Contribution Rating System may be operated by a third party to the entity e.g. in a fee based manner to support one or more remote content management systems . Various users including the users and or may interact with the content management system and or with another system not shown that has access to content pieces provided to the content management system by the content providing users to obtain information that may include at least some of the content pieces provided by content providing users . For example content pieces received from the content providing users may be provided in part or in whole to other users for presentation to those other users such as via various content presentation software programs available to the other users e.g. Web browsers media players content readers etc. . As one illustrative example discussed in more detail below the content management system may be part of a Web merchant or other online merchant that sells or otherwise makes items available to customer users and the content providing users may be customers of the merchant who submit content pieces that are related to the available items e.g. reviews of the items images of the items instructional guides related to use of the items etc. . In such embodiments the merchant may use the customer provided content pieces in various ways such as to provide some or all of them to other customers such as in conjunction with other information provided by the merchants e.g. product information related to products available from the merchant . It will be appreciated that content may be distributed from a content providing user or other content providing entity to other users in various other ways in other embodiments e.g. by using broadcast techniques peer to peer distribution techniques etc. .

The content evaluator users in this illustrated embodiment may interact with content management system to evaluate content pieces submitted by the content providing users . As previously noted content pieces may be evaluated on the basis of one or more attributes of interest of the content pieces such as usefulness humor excellence beauty etc. In the illustrated embodiment the content evaluator users may interact with the content management system to obtain content pieces submitted by content providing users and to provide evaluations of content pieces with respect to one or more of various attributes such as by submitting votes on and or ratings regarding the one or more attributes. As discussed in more detail elsewhere such evaluations of content pieces may be used for example to determine an aggregate assessment of quality of content pieces provided by a particular content providing user and or to assist in determining a user contribution rating of the content providing user e.g. based in part on a determined aggregate assessed quality of the content pieces provided by the content providing user . In some embodiments evaluations of content pieces may further be used to determine content quality ratings for the content pieces such as by generating an individual content quality rating for each content piece based at least in part on the evaluations received for that content piece and in some such embodiments such content quality ratings may be used at least in part to determine a user contribution rating of the content providing user who provided the content pieces.

In the illustrated embodiment the User Contribution Rating System operates to assess some or all of the content providing users based at least in part on the content pieces submitted by the content providing users . For example the User Contribution Rating System may assess a particular content providing user based on the content pieces provided by that content providing user such as by generating a user contribution rating for the content providing user based on a combination of multiple factors related to the provided content pieces. In various embodiments at least some of the multiple factors may include one or more of the following a quantity of the content pieces submitted by the content providing user whether a total quantity of all the user s submitted content pieces or for a subset of the user s submitted content pieces that satisfy one or more criteria and whether with all of those submitted content pieces being treated equally or instead giving some of those submitted content pieces different weights based on one or more properties of the content pieces e.g. a recency of the content piece being submitted by the content providing user a type of the content piece a subject of the content piece etc. one or more assessed qualities of the content pieces submitted by the content providing user e.g. such as based on one or more assessed attributes of the content pieces such as individual content piece quality assessments and or an aggregate quality assessment of all of the content pieces submitted by the content providing user and a quantity of evaluator users who have evaluated at least one of the content pieces submitted by the content providing user whether with all of those evaluator users being treated equally or instead giving some of those evaluator users different weights e.g. based on when an evaluator user last evaluated one of the content pieces submitted by the content providing user . In addition in some embodiments one or more other factors may be considered whether in addition to or instead of the other previously indicated factors including a recency of at least some assessments of at least some of the content pieces e.g. such as based on when one or more evaluations were received from one or more content evaluator users an assessed trust value and or reputation of the content providing user and or the content evaluator users who evaluate the computing providing user s supplied content pieces e.g. based on a relationship of the user to an entity such as a user s customer relationship with a merchant based on a user s certification degree training education etc. and any other factors that may be indicative of value or other desired characteristics of a content providing user s contributions e.g. a number of times one or more content pieces of a content providing user has been selected by other users such as including hits views downloads click throughs etc. .

In addition in at least some embodiments the User Contribution Rating System may assess a particular content providing user by generating multiple user contribution ratings for the content providing user that each has a distinct type to reflect a distinct characteristic or other type of information about the content providing user. In various embodiments at least some of the distinct generated user contribution ratings for a content providing user may include the following to correspond to one or more particular types of content pieces submitted by the content providing user e.g. item reviews images etc. to reflect supplied content pieces that correspond to one or more particular categories or groups of items e.g. books DVDs consumer electronics etc. to correspond to one or more particular types of activities in which the content providing user participates e.g. creating content pieces to be submitted selecting content pieces created by others to be submitted evaluating content pieces provided by others etc. to correspond to one or more particular groups of users to which the content providing user belongs etc. Techniques for generating one or more user contribution ratings are discussed in more detail below.

Furthermore in some embodiments the illustrated User Contribution Rating System may generate ranking information for at least some content providing users based on generated user contribution ratings of those content providing users such as relative to other content providing users e.g. based on those other content providing users generated user contribution ratings . Such generated user ranking information may be used in various manners such as to identify one or more top ranked content providing users e.g. to create and or maintain one or more leader boards or ladders or other lists of content providing users based on user contribution ratings and or other information about content providing users such as to have one such list for each of one or more types of user contribution ratings to identify one or more content providing users to reward based on their contributions to manage content in various ways etc. Such created and or maintained lists of content providing users may be used by the system in various ways such as to display information about some or all content providing users on the lists to those users and or to other users e.g. to all users of the system . In other embodiments one or more such lists may be created based on other types of information about content providing users or other users such as a list of top rated content providing users based on user contribution ratings of those users e.g. ratings of a particular type if multiple types of user contribution ratings are used . Furthermore in some embodiments other types of information may be displayed for some or all content providing users such as to indicate for a content providing user the number of evaluator users and or other users that are identified by the system and or self identified by those users as being fans or critics of the content providing user or other types of information discussed in greater detail below.

In some embodiments the content management system may perform various other functions such as for example storing content pieces provided by content providing users for later use by the system and or by others e.g. in a database or other data storage system providing other content in addition to or instead of user provided content to various parties e.g. entities users etc. providing information related to assessed user contribution ratings and or user rankings to various parties identifying content pieces that have or are likely to have attributes of interest to one or more users such as based on assessed user contribution ratings of the content providing users who provided the identified content pieces e.g. content pieces that are useful and or humorous etc.

Although the User Contribution Rating System and the content management system have been described in this example as being distinct systems in other embodiments some or all of the functionality of the systems and may be combined into a single system. In addition it will be appreciated that in some situations various of the users and may operate in different roles such as at different times and or for different content pieces. For example a content providing user may also act as a content evaluator user such as when the content providing user evaluates content pieces provided by other content providing users and or as another user such as when one or more content pieces provided by other content providing users are provided to the content providing user . Similarly content evaluator users and other users may act as content providing users and each other in different situations. As one particular example in some embodiments any user may be allowed to act as an evaluator user for content pieces provided by other users e.g. when the evaluator user receives a content piece that is selected for the evaluator user by the content management system when the evaluator user selects a content piece to be evaluated etc. and or any user may be allowed to act as a content providing user while in other embodiments only particular users may be allowed to perform particular actions or users may be allowed to perform particular actions only in particular circumstances.

In particular is a display diagram illustrating an example of a display that provides information about a particular top ranked reviewer user and an example of an item review piece of content that is authored by the user with analogous information about a particular top ranked evaluator similarly able to be provided although not shown here for the sake of brevity . This example display is displayed as part of an example Web site of an example Web merchant and contains various information about the review such as information about the item being reviewed e.g. the title artist format price and availability of the item a link that may be used to display more information about the item and a control that may be used to initiate the placement of an order for the item. The information also includes a rating or grade assigned by the reviewer to the item as part of the review here the grade shown is four stars out of five stars and the review s title and date on which the review was submitted are also displayed. The illustrated display also contains more general information about reviews submitted by the reviewer including a section that illustrates item categories for which the reviewer has submitted reviews.

In this example the display further includes a profile for the reviewer with such information as the reviewer s name a nickname for the reviewer an email address for the reviewer the current rank of the reviewer the beginning of a biographical sketch of the reviewer a link to the entire biographical sketch of the reviewer a count of the quantity of reviews submitted by this reviewer a count of one type of assessment for the reviewer in this case the number of positive rating votes cast for the reviews of this reviewer by evaluators and a graphical badge indication related to the rank of the reviewer in other embodiments some or all of this information may instead be presented in other formats or instead not be presented. In addition while not illustrated here in some embodiments one or more assessed user contribution scores or ratings for the reviewer may be displayed while in other embodiments such information may be used only for internal purposes by the merchant e.g. as part of determining a reviewer s rank etc. and not made directly available to the reviewer user and or to other users.

In addition in embodiments in which this display is provided to a user other than Reviewer C who has not yet evaluated this review of the item by Reviewer C the display may further include review evaluation rating selections to allow the user to act as an evaluator and provide an evaluation for the review. In this example two evaluation rating selections and are displayed to allow the user to specify a quantitative rating or vote or assessment of the content for each of two rating dimensions which in the illustrated example are humor and usefulness. Other rating dimensions may instead allow quantitative ratings in a binary manner e.g. via yes and no votes such as in rating selection for a prior item review shown for the item in an n ary manner e.g. rating on a scale of 1 10 or 1 100 etc. such as similar to rating selections and in a non quantitative manner e.g. by gathering textual comments about the review in a manner relative to other evaluations e.g. this is the most informative of all current evaluations for this content or of all evaluations by this evaluator or of all the evaluations for any content etc. The display further includes a link that solicits the user to author his or her own review of the Tchaikovsky Symphony No. 6 DVD item such as when the user has not yet provided a review for the item as discussed further with respect to .

While the examples discussed above with respect to have included a number of simplifying assumptions for the sake of clarity in other embodiments a variety of additional types of information and techniques may be used as part of automatically assessing user contribution scores and other ratings for author users and other content providing users as well for automatically assessing quality and other attributes of pieces of content and as well as for automatically assessing user contribution scores and other ratings for other types of users e.g. evaluator users . For example in some of the examples discussed above each user was assessed a single user contribution score that was used on behalf of the user in various ways. In other embodiments each user may instead have multiple such assessed user contribution scores or other ratings that may be used in different manners such as to reflect different types of activities of the user that are used as part of the assessment e.g. to reflect a role of the user such as when acting as a content provider evaluator etc. different types of pieces of content that the user may supply and or evaluate e.g. content of different forms such as item reviews versus photos content with different types of subject matter such as item reviews or other supplied content for books versus item reviews or other supplied content for electronics etc. and or different time frames in which a user provided the pieces of content and or the pieces of content are evaluated e.g. to reflect a user s user contribution rating within a particular time frame such as to determine a top reviewer user of the month year etc. .

In addition in some embodiments the various users may be clustered into multiple user groups in various manners e.g. based on similarities in their activities opinions demographic information shopping activities assessed user contribution scores etc. and each user may further be assessed one or more user contribution scores for each of the user groups e.g. to reflect that the other users in the group to which a user belongs consider the content supplied by the user to be highly useful while users in other groups do not consider the user s supplied content to be useful . Alternatively in some embodiments information from a user e.g. supplied pieces of content and or evaluations may only be used with respect to other users in the same group such as to be provided to them and to receive evaluations from them. Such groups of users may be determined in various ways including in an automated manner using one or more clustering algorithms e.g. a k means cluster analysis . In at least some such embodiments each user may be assigned to a single user group while in other embodiments a user may be part of multiple user groups e.g. different groups for different roles or other activities of the user .

In a similar manner in some embodiments each piece of content may have multiple assessed content quality scores that not only reflect different attributes or aspects or qualities or properties of the content piece e.g. helpfulness or more generally usefulness informativeness inappropriateness accuracy being spam humorousness etc. but that further reflect different user groups. Thus for example a piece of content may have an assessed usefulness score for a first group of users that is high and have other assessed usefulness scores for other groups of users that are low e.g. to reflect different opinions or perspectives of users in different groups to reflect different capabilities or knowledge of users in different groups such as to be highly useful to a group of users with a high degree of specific technical knowledge but to be of little use to users without that technical knowledge etc. . In order to assess the different scores for different groups of users in some embodiments only evaluations from other users in the group will be used or evaluations from users in other groups may be discounted. In addition in at least some embodiments scores for different groups of users may be assessed in different manners such as based on input received from users in those groups or on other information specific to the group. Furthermore in embodiments in which users may each have multiple assessed user contribution ratings different assessed contribution ratings of a user may be used when assessing scores for different groups of users such as to use an assessed contribution rating specific to a group of users. In addition in some embodiments other information specific to a user may further be used to influence content submissions and or evaluations from that user such as an indication of a degree of authority of a user e.g. to give increased influence based on credentials or recognition in a particular area other relationships of the user with respect to the merchant e.g. to give increased influence to a best selling author of books at least with respect to submissions and or evaluations of related material a relationship of the user with respect to a recipient user who may be provided with content e.g. to give increased influence to evaluations from users on a buddy list of the recipient user when assessing a content quality score for a piece of content to potentially be provided to the recipient user such as on a per recipient user basis or to give increased influence to evaluations from users who are in a same user cluster or user group as the recipient user .

In some embodiments users each may further be provided with information that is specific to that user such as based at least in part on a user group to which that user belongs and or based on other user characteristics or user specific information. For example if content pieces are assessed with different ratings for different user groups users of a particular group may only be provided with access to content that is sufficiently highly rated for that group even if other content was highly rated for other groups. Alternatively all content pieces may instead be available to users of the particular group but the content ratings specific to that group may be used to influence when and how pieces of content are provided to the users e.g. in an evolutionary display lifecycle to allow the most highly rated content to be identified and used such as to primarily show highly rated content but to also show at least occasional indications of new content to allow evaluations to be received for it and to show at least occasional indications of lower rated content such as randomly to allow subsequent evaluations to raise the ratings if the prior ratings were not reflective of the actual eventual ratings for the content .

In addition in at least some embodiments a variety of additional criteria are used when assessing quality related to a piece of content such as to use additional scaling factors to account for the number of evaluations received for or other impressions of displaying the piece of content in various ways and to use multiple types of user ratings of the piece of content as discussed in greater detail below. More generally in some embodiments a variety of other types of factors may be considered as part of assessment of quality of a piece of content such as activities of the supplier of the content piece to update or otherwise maintain the content piece a relationship of the piece of content to a corresponding item e.g. an item being reviewed or described a rating or grade given to an item to which a provided content piece corresponds e.g. a number of stars on a scale of 1 to 5 such as for a low rating to contribute more or less to the content piece s quality than a high rating ways in which users use the piece of content e.g. sending to other users adding to favorites lists or watch lists for changes etc. etc.

As noted above in some embodiments the described techniques are used by Web and other online merchants and others to enhance the usefulness of content provided to users also referred to as surfacing the content for items available from their Web sites or otherwise available. In other embodiments the described techniques may be used in other ways such as by an entity providing the techniques to external third parties e.g. as a Web service to customers for a fee such as merchant customers . In addition in some embodiments various of the calculated and otherwise assessed information e.g. assessed user contribution ratings assessed content quality values etc. and or other types of related data e.g. data available for use in doing the assessing such as evaluations provided by evaluators and or information about activities of users may be provided to external third parties such as to allow a user to export their assessed user contribution ratings to Web sites of others in order to receive benefits from those others that are commensurate with those ratings or to allow the other Web site to better customize their Web site to the users. Similarly in some embodiments various types of related information could be received from one or more third parties e.g. contribution ratings for content supplier users and or evaluator users that were calculated by the third parties or instead other types of related data available from the third parties such as data that can be used when doing the assessment of user contribution ratings and then used in assessing the user contribution ratings of content providing users and or evaluator users or other types of users . Such exchange of assessment related information to and or from one or more systems performing assessments may in some embodiments be performed for a fee or other compensation whether to the system s from the third party or instead from the system s to the third party.

For illustrative purposes some embodiments are described below in which specific types of content are provided by content providing users also referred to as content providers and in which specific types of evaluations of the content are provided by other users. In addition a variety of details are discussed below regarding specific techniques for calculating specific types of user contribution scores and other ratings for specific types of content providing users and for using them in specific ways to provide benefits to requesters of content e.g. other users shoppers etc. . However it will be appreciated that the inventive techniques are not limited to these details and can be used in a wide variety of other situations such as to determine and track information about other types of individuals and or entities e.g. suppliers manufacturers partners vendors affiliates employees customers etc. that provide information content.

As previously noted the assessment of an author user and other content providing user may be performed in various manners in various embodiments such as to generate one or more user contribution scores or other user contribution ratings for some or all such users to reflect one or more attributes of interest regarding the provision of content by the users. For example a user contribution rating for a content providing user may be generated to reflect a combination of multiple factors such as a quantity of pieces of content provided by the user a recency of providing some or all of the content pieces an assessed quality of the provided content pieces a regularity of providing content pieces a quantity of distinct evaluator users who have evaluated at least one or all of the content pieces provided by the user etc. In some embodiments a user s user contribution rating may increase and or decrease as one or more factors change. For example in some embodiments a user s user contribution rating may increase as a user s quantity and or assessed quality of content contributions increases. Conversely in some embodiments a user s contribution rating may decrease if a user s contributions are of low assessed quality and or if the user does not contribute new content pieces in a timely manner etc.

The following illustrative embodiment provides one example of specific techniques for generating user contribution ratings of content providing users. In particular in this illustrative example contribution ratings are generated for content providing users based on content pieces related to product reviews and other item reviews provided by the content providing users acting as reviewers so as to reflect a quantity of provided item review content pieces an assessed quality of provided item review content pieces e.g. based on one or more evaluations provided by evaluator users who assess one or more item review content pieces provided by content providing reviewer users a recency of at least some of the item review content pieces being provided by content providing reviewer users and a quantity of evaluator users who assess item review content pieces provided by the reviewer users.

For example in one such example embodiment a user contribution rating of a reviewer may be generated according to the following equation 1 with s being a value indicative of the generated user contribution rating of a content providing reviewer user also referred to as a reviewer or reviewer user with being an aggregate assessed quality of a reviewer s item review content pieces also referred to as an item review or review with sbeing a value indicative of a quantity and recency of reviews provided by the reviewer with sbeing a value indicative of a quantity of evaluator users who have provided evaluations of the reviewer s reviews and recency of their provided evaluations with w being a weight function w R R 0 1 that assigns greater weight as sand sincrease and with Obeing a default assessed aggregate quality of a reviewer s reviews or other content piece contributions . In this example embodiment a reviewer who has provided reviews but has received no evaluations for the reviews has an initial weight w s s of 0 resulting in the reviewer user s user contribution rating s being equal to the default assessed aggregate quality O. As the reviewer provides reviews and those reviews receive evaluations from evaluators sand sincrease and w s s approaches 1 resulting in the user contribution rating of the reviewer approaching the assessed aggregate quality of reviews .

In some embodiments the assessed aggregate quality of a reviewer s reviews may be a weighted average of assessments of the reviewer s reviews by one or more evaluator users within a given window of time e.g. a contribution rating window . For example in one such embodiment may be determined using the following equation 

In some embodiments the value Othat is indicative of an assessment of a reviewer s reviews that have been evaluated by a single evaluator user v may reflect the evaluator v s history of evaluations of the reviewer s reviews e.g. such as positive and negative evaluations provided over time . For example in some embodiments Omay be a determined strength between the single evaluator v and the reviewer s reviews such as based on a weighted average of age decayed evaluations of the reviewer s reviews by the evaluator v according to the following equation 

In some embodiments the value that is indicative of a quantity and recency of reviews provided by a reviewer s may be a total number of age decayed reviews written by the reviewer within the contribution rating window. For example in one such embodiment smay be calculated using the following equation 

In addition in some embodiments the value indicative of a quantity of evaluator users who have provided assessments of a given reviewer and or recency of such evaluations s is the total number of age decayed evaluations of the reviewer s reviews within a given window of time e.g. a contribution rating window . For example in one such embodiment smay be calculated using the following equation 

As previously noted one or more decay functions may be used in the illustrated example of generating a user contribution rating s. For example decay functions d R 0 1 d R 0 1 and d R 0 1 may take as input the age of an element e.g. a review an evaluation etc. and compute a weight for the element based on the age. For example the older an element is the closer its weight will be to 0 and conversely the more recent the element the closer its weight will be to 1. Decay functions may be implemented in a variety of ways in a variety of embodiments to reflect a variety of different types of age decay e.g. rate of decay etc. . For example in some embodiments a decay function may be represented as a linear function a quadratic function an exponential function and or other type of function. In some embodiments a linear decay function may be expressed by the equation 1 with x being the age of an element and W being the length of time in the contribution rating window. In some embodiments a quadratic decay function may be expressed by the equation 1 with x being the age of an element and W being the length of time in the contribution rating window. In addition in some embodiments an exponential decay function may be expressed by the equation 

As previously noted the weight function w R R 0 1 takes as input values related to quantity and recency of submitted reviews and review evaluations e.g. sand srespectively and outputs a weight between 0 and 1. For example as either sor sincreases the function w s s may monotonically increase to a value that is less than or equal to 1. As one example the function w may be represented by the equation with being a squashing function that takes as input a positive real number and squashes it to a value between 0 and 1 and with and being constants associated with a number of submitted reviews and a number of review evaluations respectively. For example in some embodiments larger constant values of may influence the equation such that a greater quantity of recent reviews is required to achieve a value of w s s close to 1 and larger constant values of may influence the equation such that a greater quantity of recent review evaluations is required to achieve a value of w s s close to 1. Examples of possible values of and include 20 and 1000 respectively.

The squashing function may be implemented in a variety of ways in a variety of embodiments. For example in some embodiments the squashing function may take as input a positive real number e.g. sor s and map it to a curve with a resulting value between 0 and 1 with a control parameter or to control the steepness of the curve. In various embodiments a squashing function may be represented by a number of equations including but not limited to the following equations 

As can be seen from the foregoing illustrated example embodiment a user contribution rating for a content providing user such as a provider of product reviews may be generated by applying a curve to a combination of multiple factors e.g. an assessed quality of the content provided by a content providing user a quantity of the content provided a recency of the content provided etc. such as illustrated with respect to equation s. In some embodiments such user contribution ratings may further be used to determine a ranking of content providing users such as for example a ranking indicative of top rated content providing users who provide reviews of products e.g. top reviewers such as illustrated in etc. .

The foregoing illustrated example embodiment of generating a user contribution rating has been described with respect to specific equations factors content types and methods of assessing quality of content. However it will be appreciated that other embodiments may be provided. For example although the foregoing illustrated example generated user contribution ratings based on factors that included quantity of supplied item review contributions quality of contributions quantity of evaluators and the effects of time on contributions by reviewers and evaluators e.g. age decay contribution rating window other factors may be used in addition to or instead of one or more of the described factors in other embodiments.

In addition although the foregoing illustrated example included several specific equations it will be appreciated that the equations are provided for illustrative purposes. In other embodiments other equations may be provided in addition to or instead of the above provided equations to generate user contribution ratings. For example one or more other equations may be provided to control various characteristics of user contribution ratings such as for example characteristics related to how contribution ratings are affected by quantity of contributions quality of contributions rate of contributions a passage of time etc. As one example in some embodiments one or more other equations may be provided such that user contribution ratings may be more or less influenced by a content providing user s quantity of contributions relative to an assessed quality of the contributions or vice versa. In other embodiments one or more other equations may be provided such that a user contribution rating may be more or less sensitive to a passage of time such that a user contribution rating degrades more or less rapidly during a period of inactivity by a content providing user. In addition although the foregoing example equations have been described with respect to one or more specific variables values value ranges and number types e.g. real numbers etc. other embodiments may include equations that use and or result in other variables values value ranges and number types e.g. integers etc. etc.

In the foregoing illustrated embodiment user contribution ratings have been described as being determined with respect to a given window of time e.g. a contribution rating window during which a content providing user provided content and or an evaluator user provided assessments of one or more pieces of content provided by the content providing user. In some embodiments a window of time may be specified as a number of years months days weeks hours etc. prior to the time that the contribution rating is generated such that the user is rated based on the content provided by the user during that time and or evaluations received during that time. In other embodiments a window of time may be defined as having distinct start and end times such as to generate one or more historical contribution ratings of users during a distinct time window spanning the start time to the end time e.g. such as contribution ratings for users that contributed content during one or more distinct weeks months years decades etc. . In some embodiments if a user did not provide content during the specified window of time the user may not qualify to receive a user contribution rating and or may receive a user contribution rating indicating that the user has not contributed content during the time window e.g. a minimal user contribution rating such as 0 in some embodiments and or a default value . In some embodiments user contribution ratings may be generated for content providing users without consideration of any specified window of time in which a user has provided content and or an evaluator has provided an assessment of a user s content such as in embodiments where any content provided by a content providing user may be considered for the determination of the user s contribution rating regardless of when the content was provided by the user and or evaluated.

In addition although the foregoing example embodiment has been illustrated with respect to content providing users who provide item reviews user contribution ratings may be determined based on additional and or other types of content pieces provided by content providing users in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments similar to the one described above user contribution ratings may be generated to reflect a rating based on any types of product reviews service reviews and other item reviews provided by content providing users e.g. so as to rate a reviewer across all categories of items and in such embodiments only such item reviews provided by the content providing users and assessments thereof may be considered to determine a user contribution rating. In other embodiments user contribution ratings of reviewers may instead be generated to reflect ratings based on reviews of one or more specific item categories e.g. movies books electronics etc. such that for example content providing users may be rated with respect to reviews for the one or more specific categories e.g. movie reviews book reviews electronic reviews clothing reviews restaurant reviews club reviews etc. . In other such embodiments user contribution ratings of reviewers may be generated based on one or more specified genres and or other subject matter of items e.g. non fiction literature science fiction romance fantasy regional etc. . In still other embodiments user contribution ratings may be based on one or more of other types of user provided content such as content including user provided commentary on various topics e.g. other than item reviews images videos news items short stories poems recipes course work dissertations computer code etc. and in some such embodiments only one or more of the other types of content may be considered to generate a user contribution rating of a user. In other embodiments all types or a subset of types of all content pieces provided by a content providing user may be used to assess a user contribution rating and in some such embodiments content pieces of different types may be treated equally in determining user contribution ratings while in other such embodiments content pieces of different types may be given different weights depending on the type e.g. an item review may be weighted more than an image etc. .

In addition in other embodiments quality of one or more content pieces provided by a content providing user may be determined in various ways in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments a quality may be based on an aggregate of at least some evaluations of at least some of the content pieces provided by a content providing user such as an average of the evaluations and or other aggregate assessment. As one example in some embodiments a quality of one or more pieces of content may be determined using an equation similar to those provided above with respect to the illustrated example of the assessed aggregate quality of a reviewer s reviews . In other embodiments quality of a content piece may be based on an aggregate of multiple content quality ratings for that content piece such as when each content quality rating is associated with a particular content piece. In some such cases the content quality rating for a content piece may be determined based on one or more evaluations of the content piece e.g. evaluations submitted by evaluator users and or automated evaluations . It will be appreciated that quality of content pieces may be determined in other ways in other embodiments and may include one or more other factors suitable for determining quality such as discussed elsewhere with respect to quality of content. In addition in various embodiments a user contribution rating for a user may be based on one or more of various attributes of interest of content pieces provided by content providing users. For example in some embodiments a content providing user may be rated based on other assessed dimensions of a user s content contributions in addition to or instead of helpfulness such as for example humor beauty fashionability verisimilitude etc. and or a combination of multiple rating dimensions or other attributes. In addition as previously noted quality of pieces of content may be based on assessments by evaluator users who provide evaluations of one or more attributes of the content pieces while in other embodiments content pieces may be assessed at least in part by using automated techniques to evaluate one or more attributes of the content pieces such as spell checking grammar checking natural language processing image analysis and or other automated techniques.

In the illustrated embodiment embodiments of a User Contribution Rating UCR system and a content management system are each executing in memory although in other embodiments the systems and may each execute on distinct computing systems or a single software system may provide functionality of both systems. The UCR system assesses user contribution ratings of content providing users based on multiple factors related to one or more pieces of content submitted by the content providing users as discussed in greater detail elsewhere.

The content management system receives content pieces submitted by content providing users via network such as from one or more content providing users interacting with a client computer system . For example in some embodiments a content providing user may submit content pieces by interacting with a Web page similar to that of provided by a browser executing in memory . After a content piece is received by the content management system the content management system may store the content piece and or information associated with the content piece e.g. time created content providing user identifier content piece identifier relationship to other content one or more categories associated with the content piece etc. in storage such as with content information .

In addition the illustrated content management system may also provide received content pieces to one or more users such as for display to the users and or to obtain evaluations of the content pieces from the one or more users. For example in some embodiments one or more users may interact with one or more of the client computer systems to obtain content pieces from the content management system such as for display in browser in a manner similar to that of . In some embodiments the content management system may provide to the one or more users information and or interactive features related to evaluating the content pieces e.g. such as information and or features related to optional rating dimensions so that the one or more users may assess various attributes of interest of the content pieces such as by interacting with a Web page similar to that of to indicate one or more assessments of the content based on one or more rating dimensions e.g. helpfulness humor etc. and may obtain such evaluations from the users. In this embodiment the obtained evaluations may be stored in storage e.g. as part of evaluations information along with information associated with the obtained evaluations e.g. time submitted identifier of evaluated content evaluator user identifier etc. .

Additionally the content management system may also provide to one or more users information related to one or more generated user contribution ratings and or rankings such as information from ratings information and rankings information . In various embodiments such information may be provided to one or more users who are operating client computer systems in various manners such as for example to display to the users in one or more manners similar to Web pages described with respect to .

In other embodiments rather than interact directly with an embodiment of the content management system users of client computer systems may interact with one or more Web servers and or other software provided by the server computing system that operate in a coordinated manner with the content management system to exchange information such as one or more optional other systems executing in memory . In other embodiments one or more other computing systems may execute Web servers and or other provided software to receive content pieces from content providing users and in such cases the one or more other computing systems may operate in a coordinated manner with the server computing system such that the content pieces may be provided to the content management system e.g. such as via Web services and or other programmatic interfaces . In some such embodiments the one or more other computing systems may be operated by the same entity that operates the server computing system and or by other entities. Similarly in some embodiments the one or more other computing systems may interact with content management system to obtain information related to submitted content pieces e.g. the content pieces and or other associated information and or information related to ratings rankings of one or more content providing users such as to provide such information to one or more users and or entities. In still other embodiments the content management system may be incorporated into one or more other computing systems .

In the illustrated embodiment the UCR system receives indications to assess one or more user contribution ratings for one or more content providing users e.g. such as from a merchant or other entity executing an embodiment of the content management system and or other software system operating in conjunction with the UCR system or instead as initiated by the UCR system on a periodic or other basis and assesses one or more user contribution ratings for each of the users if possible. In particular the UCR system may generate one or more user contribution ratings for each of one or more content providing users based on multiple factors related to a number of content pieces provided by the user as described in greater detail elsewhere. In the illustrated embodiment a generated user contribution rating may be stored in storage e.g. as part of ratings . The illustrated UCR system may also rank content providing users with respect to other content providing users according to one or more generated user contribution ratings and such rankings may be stored in storage e.g. as part of rankings . The UCR system may further provide indications of some or all of the assessed ratings and or rankings to a merchant or other entity so that the ratings and or rankings may be used in various ways. In other embodiments the optional other systems may include a contribution rating manager system that instead performs various actions with respect to the user contribution ratings and or rankings generated by the UCR system such as for the contribution rating manager system to generate user rankings based on the user contribution ratings generated by the UCR system and or for the contribution rating manager system to generate leader boards or other lists of top ranked and or top rated users and to provide the information about the generated rankings and or lists to other users and systems. In addition in other embodiments the optional other systems may include a content quality rating system that instead performs various actions with respect to assessing quality and or other attributes of at least some of the content pieces provided by the content providing users in such embodiments the UCR system may optionally use assessed content ratings from the content quality rating system for supplied content pieces when assessing a user contribution rating for a content providing user who provided those supplied content pieces.

In some embodiments the UCR system may assess user contribution ratings and or rankings at times and or in manners other than upon request such as periodically or when additional information related to such assessments becomes available. In addition in some embodiments the UCR system may further assign default ratings e.g. a rating of zero to new users or others who do not have sufficient information e.g. sufficient content piece contributions and or evaluations to assess a rating and or ranking. Furthermore in some embodiments the UCR system may generate one or more user contribution ratings based on one or more assessed attributes of interest of content pieces provided by the user such as attributes related to rating dimensions stored in optional rating dimensions information . In addition in some embodiments the UCR system may further assess multiple user contribution ratings for each of at least some of the users such as to reflect different categories of provided content pieces and or to reflect other types of information as may be defined in the optional categories information or other similar information stores not shown on storage .

As previously noted a Web server may be provided by the server computing system and or other computing systems in some embodiments such that users of client computing systems may request information from and or provide information to the Web server by using Web browsers executing in memory of the computing systems . In such embodiments the Web server may respond with appropriate information to be displayed or otherwise presented to the users such as on display devices not shown of the I O components of the computing systems . For example in some situations a Web server may be used by a Web merchant to provide shopping related functionality to users who are customers of the merchant such as to provide information about available products. In some embodiments the Web server may interact with the content management system to select appropriate user supplied content pieces to provide to users such as in conjunction with other content provided by the merchant and or content management system. Similarly the Web server may obtain information related to user contribution ratings and or rankings to include along with other information provided to users. In addition when new pieces of content are supplied by content providing users to the Web server the Web server may interact with the content management system or other component not shown to store the submitted content piece. In some embodiments the Web server may facilitate obtaining user contribution ratings and or rankings such as by interacting with the content management system and or UCR system to indicate that such ratings rankings should be generated. In addition while in some embodiments the UCR and or content management systems are operated as part of an organization with one or more Web servers in order to support the one or more Web sites provided by those Web servers for the organization in other embodiments one or both of the systems may also or instead interact with various external third party computer systems such as to provide assessment based functionality to them as a service e.g. as a Web service and or to exchange assessment related information with them.

It will be appreciated that computing systems and are merely illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. For example computing system may instead be comprised of multiple interacting computing systems or devices and may be connected to other devices that are not illustrated including through one or more networks such as the Internet or via the World Wide Web Web . In addition storage or other components illustrated as being on one computing system may instead be present on one or more other computing systems or network devices such as to use one or more network storage devices in place of or in addition to local storage. More generally a client or server computing system or device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact in the manners described including without limitation desktop or other computers network devices PDAs cellphones cordless phones devices with walkie talkie and other push to talk capabilities pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes DVRs etc. and various other consumer products that include appropriate inter communication and computing capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated systems may in some embodiments be combined in fewer systems or distributed in additional systems. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated systems may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

It will also be appreciated that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The illustrated embodiment of the routine begins at block where information a request or another indication is received. The routine continues to block to determine whether an indication of a content piece has been received from a content providing user and if so continues to block to store the content piece and any associated information e.g. time received created content providing user identifier related content etc. for later use. In various embodiments the routine may perform one or more various other operations upon receiving a content piece such as filtering the content piece for appropriateness notifying one or more systems processes routines users and or entities that a content piece has been received e.g. such as for purposes of compensating and or rewarding a content providing user such as to further process the received content piece etc. provide information to the content provider who provided the piece e.g. confirmation message an award etc. etc.

If it is instead determined in block that an indication of a content piece was not received the routine continues to block to determine whether an indication of a request for a content piece has been received. If so the routine continues to block to provide the requested content piece along with any associated user contribution rating information as appropriate in at least some situations. For example in some embodiments one or more indications related to one or more generated user contribution ratings of a user who provided the content piece may be provided along with the information such as one or more user contribution ratings generated for the user by an embodiment of the User Contribution Rating routine discussed below with respect to . In some embodiments such indications may include indications of the user s rating an award and or title given to the user based on one or more of the ratings a display badge or other icon for top rated and or top ranked content provided users etc. After block the routine continues to block to optionally provide additional information related to enabling the receiving user to evaluate a content piece such as information related to one or more attributes of interest e.g. rating dimensions such as helpfulness humor etc. of the content piece to be assessed by an evaluator user and associated user selectable controls and such as in situations when the potential evaluator user is not the content providing user who supplied the content piece and has not already evaluated the content piece.

If it is instead determined in that an indication of a request for a content piece was not received the routine continues to block to determine whether an indication of an evaluation of a content piece has been received and if so continues to block . For example in some embodiments the routine may receive one or more evaluations of a content piece such as evaluations based on one or more assessed attributes of interest related to the content piece e.g. helpfulness humor etc. . In some embodiments such evaluations may have been performed by one or more evaluator users who assessed one or more attributes of interest related to the content piece such as one or more evaluator users who received optional information related to evaluating a content piece e.g. in block and provided an evaluation based on the received information. In some embodiments at least some of the received evaluations may have been performed at least in part by an automated method e.g. natural language processing image analysis etc. . In block the received evaluation may be stored for later use along with any associated information as appropriate e.g. time received evaluated evaluator identifier related content piece identifier evaluation method etc. .

If it was instead determined in that an indication of an evaluation of a content piece is not received the routine continues to block to determine whether an indication of a request for user contribution ratings of one or more content providing users has been received and if so continues to block . In some embodiments such a request may include indications of one or more particular content providing users for which ratings are to be retrieved and or indications of one or more other identifiable characteristic of a content providing user e.g. all content providing users a number of top rated reviewers etc. . In addition in some embodiments such requests may include an indication of one or more specific ratings criteria with respect to the requested user contribution ratings such as for example content categories rating dimensions contribution rating window etc. such that the requested ratings may be related to and or based on the indicated criteria. In block the routine obtains the requested user contribution ratings such as by interacting with an embodiment of the User Contribution Rating routine of discussed below or by obtaining stored ratings from a database and or other storage means. In block after the routine obtains the requested ratings the routine may optionally store the ratings for later use e.g. if the obtained ratings were not already stored and to enable them to later be provided to other requesters and or provides the requested user contribution ratings to the requester.

If at block it is instead determined that an indication of a request for one or more user contribution ratings was not received the routine continues to block to determine whether an indication of a request for one or more rankings of one or more content providing users is received such as rankings based in part on one or more generated user contribution ratings of the content providing users. If so the routine continues to block to obtain the requested rankings such as by interacting with an embodiment of the User Contribution Rating routine of discussed below and or by retrieving them from storage. In some embodiments the request for rankings may include indications of one or more rankings criteria such as criteria similar to the ratings criteria discussed with respect to block . In block after the routine obtains the requested rankings the routine may optionally store and or provide the requested rankings to the requester.

If it was instead determined in block that an indication of a request for one or more rankings was not received the routine continues to block to optionally perform one or more indicated operations as appropriate. After blocks and the routine continues to block to determine whether to continue such as until an explicit indication to terminate is received. If so the routine returns to block and otherwise the routine continues to and ends.

The illustrated embodiment of the routine begins at block where an indication is received of a request or instruction. The routine continues to block to determine whether the received indication includes a request to rate one or more content providing users and if so continues to block to optionally determine one or more content categories of interest with respect to the requested user contribution rating e.g. based on an indication of one or more categories received with the request and or other user contribution rating type information of interest. As discussed elsewhere in some embodiments user contribution ratings of multiple types may be generated based on corresponding subsets of relevant information.

After block the routine continues to block to select a next content providing user to be rated beginning with a first such user from a group of one or more candidate users. The routine may select the next content providing user in various ways in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments a request to rate one or more content providing users may include an indication of the one or more content providing users to be rated and in such embodiments the next user is selected from the indicated one or more users. In some embodiments the routine may automatically determine who the next content providing user is from the determined group of candidate users e.g. such as all users who have provided content and select a next user as appropriate. In addition in some embodiments the selection of a next user may be based on verifying that the selected user qualifies to be rated such as with respect to specified rating criteria e.g. such as users who submitted content pieces related to an indicated category such as a category determined in block who submitted content pieces within an indicated window of time who submitted content pieces that have been assessed with respect to one or more indicated attributes of interest etc. . In other embodiments the routine may determine whether a content providing user qualifies based on other criteria such as whether the user has provided a minimum amount of content and or whether the user s content has been sufficiently evaluated e.g. such as by one or more evaluator users etc.

In block the routine determines which content pieces submitted by the content providing user to use in generating a user contribution rating for the user. In some embodiments a user contribution rating may be determined based on all content pieces provided by the content providing user while in other embodiments a subset of the content pieces provided by the content providing user is used e.g. based on content categories attributes of interest a time frame of submission etc. .

In block the routine then determines a quality rating of the determined content pieces such as a single assessed aggregate quality rating for the determined content pieces. Such a quality rating may be determined in various ways in various embodiments as discussed elsewhere. In other embodiments a content quality rating for each of the determined content pieces may be determined e.g. either by the routine and or another routine and one or more of the determined content quality ratings may be used to determine the quality rating of the determined content pieces e.g. such as by aggregating the determined content quality ratings . In addition in some embodiments the one or more evaluations used to determine the quality rating of the content pieces may be selected for use in the determination in various ways in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments one or more of the evaluations may be selected based in part on when one or more of the evaluations was received from an evaluator user e.g. only evaluations received within a specified period of time while in other such embodiments only evaluations by evaluator users who have recently provided an evaluation may be selected. In other embodiments the determining of the assessed aggregate quality rating and or multiple individual quality ratings for the determined content pieces may be performed by another system such as a content quality rating system and obtained by the routine in block by interacting with that other system.

The routine then continues to block where at least one user contribution score or other rating is generated for the selected content providing user based at least in part on the determined quality rating from block a quantity of the determined content pieces of block a recency of when one or more of the determined content pieces were submitted by the selected content providing user being assessed and a quantity of evaluator users who have evaluated the determined content pieces. In other embodiments a user contribution score may be generated in other manners as discussed elsewhere. After block the routine continues to block to store the generated user contribution score s for later use. After block the routine continues to block to determine whether there are more users to be assessed. If so the routine returns to block to select a next user and if not the routine continues to block to provide indications of the one or more determined user contribution scores to the requester. In other embodiments if the rating of the content providing user s was instead initiated by the routine e.g. periodically the providing of block may not be performed.

In block the routine next determines whether the indication received in block includes a request to rank one or more content providing users relative to other content providing users based on the generated user contribution scores or whether such ranking is to be performed for other reasons e.g. if the routine automatically maintains updated rankings whenever ratings are generated if the rankings are performed periodically etc. . If so the routine continues to block to rank the content providing users accordingly and optionally to store the rankings for later use and or to provide the rankings to the requester in a manner similar to that previously discussed with respect to blocks and . In some embodiments multiple rankings may be performed such as if one or more of the content providing users have been rated with respect to multiple different rating factors. In other embodiments the generating of the rankings and or other use of generated rankings may be performed by another system such as a contribution rating manager system and obtained by the routine in block by interacting with that other system.

If instead at block it was not determined to rate one or more content providing users the routine continues to block to perform one or more other indicated operations as appropriate. After blocks and or if it is instead determined at block not to rank one or more content providing users the routine continues to block to determine whether to continue such as until an explicit indication to terminate is received. If so the routine returns to block and otherwise the routine continues to block and ends. While not illustrated here in other embodiments the routine could further optionally provide one or more award indications to content providing users based on newly calculated ratings and or rankings for the users such as to display indications of their new rank of one or more of their new ratings of changes in their overall rank and or ratings over time to provide a monetary or monetary equivalent adjustment to the user based on one or more of their new ratings and or rankings etc.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the functionality provided by the routines discussed above may be provided in alternative ways such as being split among more routines or consolidated into fewer routines. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated routines may provide more or less functionality than is described such as when other illustrated routines instead lack or include such functionality respectively or when the amount of functionality that is provided is altered. In addition while various operations may be illustrated as being performed in a particular manner e.g. in serial or in parallel or synchronous or asynchronous and or in a particular order in other embodiments the operations may be performed in other orders and in other manners. Any data structures discussed above may also be structured in different manners such as by having a single data structure split into multiple data structures or by having multiple data structures consolidated into a single data structure. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated data structures may store more or less information than is described such as when other illustrated data structures instead lack or include such information respectively or when the amount or types of information that is stored is altered.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims and the elements recited therein. In addition while certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the invention in any available claim form. For example while only some aspects of the invention may currently be recited as being embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be so embodied.

