---

title: System and method for managing network by value-based estimation
abstract: A system and method for managing a network by value-based estimation is provided. A network device requesting communication is defined as an active point and a network device receiving a request for communication is defined as a passive point. A value of a network device is determined according to the number of active points connected to the corresponding network device, and a value of a network device that is in a path of communication between network devices is determined based on a value of a network device passing through the corresponding network device. When a policy for changing a network environment is transferred in a state where the values of the network devices have been estimated, a policy conflict test is performed on the basis of the estimated values of the network devices, thereby determining application of the policy in due consideration of the values and significance of the network devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08171521&OS=08171521&RS=08171521
owner: Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute
number: 08171521
owner_city: Daejeon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20080229
---
The present invention relates to a large network management technology and more particularly to a system and method for managing a network by value based estimation which is applied to a dynamically changing large network environment by estimating a value of a network device according to the amount of communication requested from or passing through the device.

In a large network security equipment is managed using an established policy for efficient management and collective command transfer. A system that manages a network using a policy is called a policy based network management system. In the policy based network management system a policy must be applied in due consideration of policy transfer a policy conflict with an existing policy and policy application between heterogeneous devices.

However when verifying the policy conflict a conventional network management system considers only a conflict with an existing policy without considering a value and significance of a network device. Even if the value and significance of the network device are considered a manager estimates the value of the network device on the basis of experience. Thus objective estimation cannot be performed and a method for automatic policy application based on the objective estimation has not been proposed.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a system and method for managing a network by value based estimation which substantially obviates one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a system and method for managing a network by value based estimation in which on the assumption that a network device requesting communication is defined as an active point and a network device receiving a request for communication is defined as a passive point a value of a network device is determined according to the number of active points connected to the corresponding network device and a value of a network device that is in a path of communication between network devices is determined based on a value of a network device passing through the corresponding network device. In the system and method for managing a network by value based estimation when a policy for changing a network environment is transferred in a state where the values of the network devices have been estimated a policy conflict test is performed on the basis of the estimated values of the network devices thereby determining application of the policy.

Additional advantages objects and features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these objects and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein there is provided a system for managing a network by value based estimation including a value estimating unit configured to collect information of network devices installed within a network for network estimation and estimate values of the network devices on the basis of the collected information a storage unit configured to store the values of the estimated network devices a policy determining unit configured to verify validity of a policy by using the estimated values and determine application of the corresponding policy and a policy executing unit configured to convert the corresponding policy into a command suitable for the network device when the policy is determined to be reflected to the network device and transfer the command.

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for managing a network by value based estimation the method comprising the steps of a estimating values with respect to network devices including node network devices that perform communication and path network devices through which communication passes between the node network devices and b determining whether to change a policy on the basis of the values of the network devices in response to a request for a policy change from a manager.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description of the present invention are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

As shown in various network devices such as a web server a database server a client computer a router and a firewall can be connected in a large network employing a system for managing a network by value based estimation hereinafter also referred to as a value based network management system according to the embodiment of the present invention. A policy for network management with respect to the network devices are established such that the policy is applied in due consideration of the value of the corresponding network device.

To this end the value based network management system collects analyzes and controls information of network devices being managed. Then the value based network management system estimates values of the network devices by using the collected information. When a polish is established the value based network management system verifies validity of the policy on the basis of the estimated values and then the corresponding policy is applied.

To perform those operations as shown in the system for managing a network by value based estimation according to the embodiment of the present invention includes a value estimating unit a storage unit a policy determining unit and a policy executing unit . The value estimating unit collects information of network devices installed within the network for value estimation and estimates values of the network devices on the basis of the collected information. The storage unit stores the estimated values of the network devices. The policy determining unit verifies validity of a policy using the estimated values and determines application of the corresponding policy. When the policy is determined to be reflected to the network device the policy executing unit converts the corresponding policy into a command suitable for the network device and transfers it.

In this embodiment the policy determining unit determines to accept the policy on the basis of a network level and the policy executing unit selects any one method of command line input CLI and application programming interface API for the policy application.

The system for managing a network by value based estimation estimates values of network devices by using information sent from the network devices and stores the estimated values in the storage unit . When a policy is transferred from a manager the system for managing a network by value based estimation compares the stored value with a network level to determine whether to accept the transferred policy. The network level is variable and is determined by a network manager in due consideration of a network state. If a value of the network device is higher than the network level the policy may be rejected but if not the policy must be applied to the network all the time. If the manager wants for the policy to be applied all the time the network level may be set to the highest value.

A value of a network device estimated by the system for managing a network by value based estimation is associated with significance of a service provided by the network device. That is a value of a network device providing a significant service can be estimated to be high. According to this embodiment service significance of a network device is in proportion to the number of clients accessing the network device. This is because the network device providing more significant service receives more communication requests from other network devices. However this method may have a limitation that the service may be estimated only based on the number of communication requests. Therefore according to the embodiment of the present invention a weight is set for each communication request so that a value of a network device that requests a service can be reflected.

Referring to in step the valued based network management system estimates values of network devices before a request for a network policy change is transferred. A method for estimating a value of a network device will be described with reference to . In step when the request for a policy change is transferred from a manager it is verified whether a corresponding policy is valid on the basis of the values of the network devices. To verify the validity of the policy it is checked whether the policy to be established conflicts with an existing policy. If the policy does not conflict with the existing policy the policy is selected and finally the application of the corresponding policy is determined on the basis of the values of the network devices.

The policy application is determined by the estimated values of the network devices and the network level being managed. The network level is determined according to a network risk. If the network device has a value that is lower than the network level the selected policy must be applied to the network device all the time. However if the network device has a value that is higher than the network level the network device may reject the selected policy. If the request for the policy change is valid the policy change is applied in step and if not the policy change is rejected in step . A result of the request for the policy change is reported to the manager in step .

In a node network device Vrepresents a network device that performs communication such as a client computer a web server a database server and so on. A path network device Vrepresents a network device which is in a path of communication between node network devices Vand V such as a router a firewall and so. In the case of value based policy establishment a policy transferred to the path network device Vis applied. A node network device that requests communication is defined as an active point and one that receives a communication request is defined as a passive point.

In a value estimation algorithm for a network device according to an embodiment of the present invention significance of one node network device Vincreases as the node network device Vreceives communication requests from more other network devices. That is the value of a node network device Vis determined according to the number of active points connected to the corresponding node network device V. As the number of active points increases the significance of the node network device Valso increases. When a network device with high significance makes a communication request to another network device as an active point the communication request is weighted so that the communication request has a higher value than a communication request made by a network device with low significance. Unlike the node network device V a value of a path network device Vcannot be determined with the division into active points and passivation points. The value of the path network device Vis set to be higher than the highest one of values of network devices connected to a communication channel passing through the path network device V. Thus communication jamming between network devices connected by the path network device Vcan be prevented.

As shown in according to an embodiment of estimating a value in the value based network management system node network device D is a passive point of node network devices A B and C and a weight of the node network device D is set to 3.5. In this case values of node network devices A B and C requesting communication are set to 1 and weights thereof are set to 0.5. A node network device G which is a passive point of the node network device C has a value of 1.5 which is higher than a value of a node network device E. A node network device H which is a passive point of the node network device D has a value of 4. Communication that passes through a path network device F is communication between the node network devices D and H and between the node network devices E and G. The node network device H has the value of 4 which is the highest among the values of the four node network devices D H E and H. Thus in order to accept the communication between the node network devices a value of the path network device F is set to 4.5 which is higher than the value of the H node. In this manner the value of every network of is estimated. When a policy is established based on the corresponding value the value based network management system determines the policy application.

Equation A is used to estimate a value of a node network device V. In Equation A denotes a weight varying with a network device which is set such that significance can be allocated differently according to network devices requesting communication even if the same communication channel is used. After the value of the node network device Vas an active point is estimated a value of a path network device Vis estimated by Equation B . The value of the path network device Vis estimated to be higher than a value of a node network device connected to a communication channel passing through the path network device V.

Values of network devices before installation of web server W 1 1 2 3 1 1 1 1 2 3 4 1 1 1.5 4 6 2 1 1.5 4 6 1 Max 1 1 2 3 1 2 4 2 6

Values of network devices before installation of web server W 1 1 2 3 1 1 2 1 1 2 3 4 1 1 1.5 4 6 2 1 2 1.5 4 1.5 4 12 1 Max 1 1 2 3 1 2 4 2 6

where R denotes a router W denotes a web server D denotes a database server T denotes a terminal and C denotes a computer.

The values of the network devices of can be estimated by the above described method. If a manager transfers a policy to router R in order to block a service of the database D the corresponding policy is applied because the value of the database D before the installation the web server W is 6 which is lower than the network level of 10. However when the values of the network devices are estimated after the web server W is installed the value of the database D is 12 because of the web server W. Accordingly the policy for blocking the service of the database D may be rejected in the value based network management system. This is because the value of the database D in the case of providing a service to two web servers W and W is higher than that in the cases of providing the service to the web server W and thus more damage may occur in the network configuration of than the network configuration in in the event that the service is not provided. The system for managing a network by value based estimation changes values of network devices depending on a dynamic network circumstance so that a policy can be applied in due consideration of a result of the policy application.

As described so far in the system and method for managing a network by value based estimation according to exemplary embodiments a network is managed based on values of network devices so that network management based on characteristics of network devices can be achieved.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

