---

title: Media content programming, delivery, and consumption
abstract: A media content programming, delivery, and consumption model is provided by which consumers can receive programming that is personalized to their tastes and interests and discover new media content that they will likely enjoy, without having to put in a lot of effort or needing to be technically adept. The received media content programming can then be played on a PC or portable media player. Consumers can access the media content programming from a cloud-based service with the same ease as tuning to a radio station, and then may simply enjoy the programming without needing to take any additional steps. However, unlike traditional linear programming, the programming here is curated so that the delivered content is highly relevant to the consumer. Navigation within a programmed sequence is enabled by skipping ahead or going back in a playlist, and consumers can learn more about particular content by interacting with rich metadata.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275880&OS=08275880&RS=08275880
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08275880
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080506
---
Traditionally delivered media content such as broadcast radio and television follows a linear programming model by which service providers supply multiple discrete streams or channels of programming to a population of consumers. Consumers i.e. listeners or viewers select among the channels to tune to the stream of media content they wish to consume. Within each stream the media content is programmed to be delivered in a particular way so that for example a given television show runs at certain times songs are played according to a particular playlist advertisements are run on some set schedule and so forth. While consumers can sometimes use time shifting devices such as recorders to consume a particular piece of media content within a programmed stream at a time of their choosing consumers cannot choose or control which media content is played or when within a linear program stream. So if the consumer wants to watch or listen to something else they will typically switch to another television channel or tune to another radio station.

The linear programming model is being supplemented and for some consumers being replaced by interactive i.e. non linear access to media content. Common examples of interactive access include Video on Demand television and on line media content delivery to a home PC personal computer . In both examples consumers can choose a particular piece of media content like a song audio book music video television show or movie etc. that can be consumed at a desired time. New business models have also been introduced that enable consumers to purchase media content from on line sources share the content with other consumers or transfer content to devices such as portable media players. In short interactive access has provided consumers with flexible ways to personalize their selection and consumption of media content that has proven to be both popular and commercially successful.

While interactive access to media content has dramatically changed the way consumers can access and consume content traditional linear programming still remains a preferred choice for many consumers. Some like the unattended way linear programmed media content is delivered because it is does not take a lot of effort or particular technical skill to find and access media content that can be enjoyed. Other consumers may develop an affinity for a particular channel or station. Using radio as an example a listener might have a favorite station that is tuned into regularly because the listener likes the mix of music or other programming that is played or they have a favorite DJ or on air personality at the station. Other listeners may like the fact that they can count on being introduced to new artists or songs that they will like when they are listening to a radio station that plays music they already like. A significant number of consumers in other words like being able to simply tune to a station knowing that for the most part they will enjoy what gets played.

Thus linear programming can fit many consumers lifestyles well and meet their expectations because the ease of use can somewhat compensate for the lack of flexibility and inability to personalize programming that is an inherent limitation of traditional broadcasting. However many consumers would still like to have programming that is better personalized to their individual tastes while perhaps getting some of the interactivity such as purchase opportunities provided by non linear access methods but all the while having it as easy to use and consume as traditional linear radio and television programming.

This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follow. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.

A media content programming delivery and consumption model is provided by which consumers can receive media content programming that is personalized to their tastes and interests and discover new media content that they will likely enjoy without having to put in a lot of effort or needing to be technically adept. The received media content programming can then be played for example on a PC or portable media player. This model enables consumers to access the media content programming from a service with the same ease as tuning to a radio station and then to simply enjoy the programming without needing to take any additional steps much like they consume traditional linear programming. However unlike traditional linear programming the programming here is curated so that the delivered content is highly relevant to the consumer. In addition consumers of the service can navigate within a programmed sequence of media content for example by skipping ahead or going back in a playlist as well as learning more about particular content by interacting with rich metadata that is associated with the content.

Under the model a playlist comprising media content in a programmed sequence is generated by taking a variety of curating factors into account. Illustrative examples of such factors include analysis of media content that other people who use the service are consuming including those who fall within the consumer s social graph i.e. the network of connections and relationships among people using the service including friends of the consumer and friends of friends etc. the likes and dislikes of the consumer that are identified to the service e.g. the consumer s favorite songs or movies DJs that are liked favorite radio stations songs on a playlist that the consumer skips over identified media content that is consumed e.g. the consumer s top 10 most listened to songs or owned by the consumer e.g. album or movie collections and other user profile or service usage based factors.

The media content programming may be delivered over a network such as the Internet to a PC to be rendered and consumed locally by a consumer remotely accessed as a web hosted service or transferred and cached for later playback on a portable media player when the consumer is on the go. Typically the delivery of the media content will be subject to certain limitations in accordance with the terms of use of the service and or to meet digital rights management DRM arrangements or other license or contract obligations that are in place between the service provider and the media content owners.

When the present media content programming is stored on a device such as a PC or cached in a personal media player the media content will typically be consumed i.e. played or rendered in a linear manner in a pre defined programmed sequence i.e. the playlist . However unlike traditional programming the consumer is provided with an ability to skip ahead or go back in the playlist for example to skip a song that is not liked or hear a song again that is . In some cases there will be some limits on how the consumer may skip ahead or go back in the playlist again as may be required by terms of use or to meet license and or DRM obligations. Consumers may be provided with an ability to interact with the media content as it plays for example by flagging a piece of media content for later download and or purchase or by accessing rich metadata that is related to the media content e.g. album cover artwork artist information concert information and news from live feeds reviews by other consumers or friends bonus box set or extras features etc. . Consumers may also be provided with an easy way to rate the media content as it is played by providing for example a simple thumbs up or thumbs down indication so that the service can learn from the user feedback to help further refine or tailor the media content programming to better meet consumers tastes.

Several different business models can be used with the present media content programming delivery and consumption model. For example the model can support a subscription based or advertisement based service or a combination of both. Subscriptions can also include various tiers or levels including trial limited consumption or unlimited consumption service levels for example.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Like reference numerals indicate like elements in drawings. Elements are not drawn to scale unless otherwise indicated.

The present media content programming delivery and consumption model makes use of the observation that a significant number of consumers of media content such as music and video want the content to be delivered in a way that does not require a lot of work or effort to enjoy. For example these consumers will often simply tune in a radio station they like and listen to the programming that is aired. Perhaps the radio plays in the background as they perform other tasks and activities or a consumer pays close attention to a speech or interview that is being played but in all cases the consumers rely on the radio station to make the choices of music or other content for them.

But these traditional delivery arrangements are often very satisfactory because it is further recognized that while some consumers enjoy and listen to music they are really only casual listeners. Such listeners can be quite different from sophisticated listeners who are into music and tend to be very knowledgeable and discriminating about their music choices and invest time and effort to fulfill their particular tastes. Yet other consumers might have limited time or are just not inclined to invest more effort beyond using the radio to find and access media content to experience. In fact given the large number of choices among media content and sources some consumers may prefer to let others make choices for them.

The example above is part of an emerging trend which is referred to here as curated consumption where consumers like to follow curators of style taste or fashion in making purchasing and consumption decisions for a variety of products and services. While the term curator traditionally refers to a collection specialist at a gallery museum or library it is becoming increasingly common for magazines television radio print advertising web sites blogs web logs and other media outlets to team with retailers experts celebrities or other personalities to offer branded products or services generate top ten lists staff picks and other recommendations and provide product service reviews in order to influence and shape consumer culture.

The present arrangement extends the concept of curated consumption to a media content programming delivery and consumption model supporting a service that may be used by casual and sophisticated consumers alike. Casual consumers can receive a curated media content program that fits their tastes and which plays on their PC and or portable media player as easily as using a traditional linear programming source such as radio. And sophisticated consumers can satisfy their desire to dig deeper and learn more by interacting with the rich metadata.

Turning now to the drawings shows an illustrative environment in which the present media content programming delivery and consumption model may be practiced. A media content service is arranged as a cloud based service that may be accessed from a PC via public networks such as the Internet . PC is commonly located in a home or office which a consumer can utilize to store organize access and render various types of media content in digital form. Such content commonly includes for example music audio books podcasts images like photographs video in the form of television programs movies music videos and the like. As shown in consumer also uses a portable media player that is typically arranged to render most types of media content when the consumer is away from the PC .

Portable media player is representative of the variety of personal electronic devices that are available that can play audio video or both including MP3 players Moving Pictures Expert Group MPEG 1 audio layer 3 portable multimedia players pocket PCs smart phones mobile phones handheld game devices personal digital assistants PDAs or other types of electronic devices that can store and render media content. And while a PC is shown in the illustrative environment in other devices may also be used to access the media content service such as laptop and handheld computers multimedia centers game consoles set top boxes network devices such as servers and access points and the like. In addition while both audio and video are commonly consumed and devices are often configured to render both the present arrangement for media content programming may be arranged to work with either audio or video or both audio and video as may be needed by a particular scenario.

In this example the portable media player is arranged to be operatively couplable with the PC using a host client synchronization process by which data may be exchanged or shared between the devices. shows the portable media player as typically inserted into a dock for synchronization with the PC . Dock is coupled to an input port such as a USB Universal Serial Bus port with a synchronization sync cable in this example. In alternative arrangements the portable media player may be coupled directly to the sync cable without using the dock . In addition other arrangements may also be used to implement communications between the portable media player and PC including for example those employing wireless protocols such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi i.e. the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards family .

As shown in media content programming which is personalized to the consumer is provided by the service to the PC . In one example the media content programming from the service is stored to a persistent storage medium such as a hard disk . The media content programming can then be rendered by the PC off the hard disk so that programming such as music and or videos collectively indicated by reference numeral can be played and enjoyed by the consumer .

Another way that the consumer can consume the media content programming is by transferring the content from the PC into a cache that is typically arranged as a portion of the persistent storage device that is utilized in the portable media player . The transferred and cached media content programming is then available so that programming such as music and or videos collectively indicated by reference numeral can be rendered out of the cache when the portable media player is disconnected from the PC and used as a standalone device.

Media content programming may also be streamed to the PC from the service as shown in . Here the media content stream is typically not stored locally on the PC . Instead the media content is accessed remotely for example as a web based streaming service.

It is emphasized that the media content programming from the service is typically provided as an additional choice to the consumer to supplement existing media content. Thus for example the consumer can listen to songs from the music collection stored on the PC or personal media player in a normal fashion and then switch to a programmed playlist from the service . In some cases the consumer can receive multiple programmed playlists from the service and then switch among programmed playlists in an analogous manner to tuning in to different radio stations. Of course the consumer is free to switch from a programmed playlist back to consuming stored media content from his collection in a conventional manner.

The client side components and on the PC and portable media player respectively are configured to locally implement the various features and functionalities provided by the service . For example the client side PC component may be arranged to interact with the service to receive the media content programming and store it on the hard disk as well as provide a user interface with which for example the consumer may interact with the content as described below in the text accompanying or set global preferences to be used by the service . This user interface may be implemented as an application or be configured as an API application programming interface for example to interface with other applications that may be running on the PC . The client side PC component may also be configured to monitor user activities as they interact with their media content programming for purposes of collecting user feedback as well as enforce terms of use and or licensing arrangements.

The client side PC component is further arranged to interact with the client side device component to effectuate transfer of the cached media content programming from the PC to the portable media player .

In addition to providing the functionality attendant to the transfer and caching of the media content programming the client side PC component will typically provide control and user interface functions to enable the consumer to render and interact with the media content on the portable media player . These controls and interface functions may be implemented using an interface or API to components which support existing user interface and controls e.g. buttons and display screen that are supported by the portable media player . Monitoring feedback collection and enforcement of terms of use and applicable license restrictions are also typical functionalities that are implemented on the client side device component .

Turning now to the service side components are described in more detail. As shown in a variety of factors may be utilized by the programming component when selecting the particular media content that is used in a given programmed playlist. It is emphasized that the factors are illustrative they can be weighted in different ways and other factors may also be utilized as required to meet the needs of a particular application and to provide curated experiences to consumers that are well suited to their tastes. In addition it is not necessary that all the factors shown in be used in all implementations of the present media content programming.

In one illustrative example the factors will be utilized and weighted by a selection algorithm that is configured to operate in an automated manner as part of the programming component in the service . In alternative arrangements the algorithm may be configured to be manually adjusted or tuned to produce a particular result. The balance between automated and manual selection may be varied to meet the requirements of a particular implementation.

Generally the activity among the community of users of the service along with the activities of the specific consumer and those within the consumer s social graph will form a basis for the programming. More specifically the community activity will typically comprise statistical data that is collected by the service with regard to various usage attributes that are associated with particular pieces of media content. Such statistics could include for example the overall play count of the songs that are provided by the service ratings of the songs that are collected as user feedback and other data that is collected from the community of service users as a whole.

The social graph factor takes into account the activities of other people who use the service who are identified as being within the consumer s social graph. Typically the consumer will identify friends or be identified by others as a friend or have some other connection or relationship that can be identified. Thus the consumer s social graph could extend to people who have expressed interests in common music or film genres or who may be members of the same artist fan club that is hosted by the service . So for example the social graph factor can include those songs that are being listened to by the consumer s friends the favorite songs of friends which songs are most played by friends and so on.

The profile factor considers the profile of the consumer and looks to media content that is consumed by other consumers of the service having similar profiles. A user profile will commonly consider demographic information such as age gender education residency hobbies interests and similar factors that may be furnished by the consumer either as part of a service sign up process or that are explicitly provided to help the service program the playlist.

Assuming permission is received to do so the media content collection factor looks to the types and genres of media content that the consumer either owns for example music stored on the hard disk on PC or the media content that the consumer plays either through the service or via other sources such as Internet radio for example but does not own. The consumer s collection of media content can often be expected to provide a good basis for programming because similar artists and genres to those in the collection can often be readily identified.

The likes and dislikes factor can consider a variety of subjects that the consumer can explicitly designate to the service as being liked or disliked or can implicitly indicate such likes and dislikes through some action for example by repeatedly skipping and not listening to a particular artist or song when it comes up in a programmed playlist . The subjects listed in are illustrative and include the consumer s like or dislike of particular media content such as songs or movies DJs artists actors producers directors famous personalities or celebrities radio or television stations fan clubs hosted by the service and user comments or blogs that are posted in forums supported by the service .

The remaining factors shown in are generally related to the commercial context in which the service operates. The terms of use factor will typically take into account the business model used by service which may include both advertisement based and subscription based business models.

Advertising can be dynamically inserted into a playlist as it is generated. For example with multi leveled or tiered subscriptions playlists associated with free or less expensive subscriptions may utilize more advertising while those associated with more expensive subscriptions may have fewer advertisements or none at all.

The license restriction factor which may include accommodation for various DRM schemes may also be considered when programming media content into a playlist. For example depending on the terms of the agreements that are in place between the provider of the service and the media content owners there could restrictions imposed on the number of playlists to which a given consumer may subscribe and thus receive at the PC and or transfer and cache on the portable media player .

The license restrictions may be utilized in some cases to restrict the number of pieces of media content i.e. number of songs or videos that are delivered from the service to the PC as well as limiting the transfer and caching of content to the portable media player . As with programming component such license restrictions could be imposed as may be required by the terms of agreements between the provider of the service and the media content owners. Similarly the terms of use of the service can restrict delivery transfer and caching according to subscription level for example.

As indicated by reference numeral the consumer will typically play the playlist in its programmed sequence which results in a similar experience to that of traditional linear programming. However in many implementations the consumer will be enabled with the ability to navigate within the programmed sequence of media content for example by skipping ahead or going back in a playlist. In some cases multiple preset navigation points may be located in a programmed sequence that set the place where playback resumes when the consumer skips ahead or goes back. There might also be limitations imposed as to when or how often the consumer may skip or go back in accordance with license DRM obligations and or the terms of use of the service . For example there may be limits on the total play count of songs or the consumer may not be allowed to skip advertising.

As indicated by reference numeral as the playlist is rendered the consumer may interact with the user interface provided by the respective client side PC and device components and to flag a particular piece of media content. For example if the consumer hears a song or views a video clip that is liked that media content may be flagged so that the consumer can later be provided with options to purchase and download the content for playback on an unrestricted license or ownership basis for example.

Access to rich metadata is also provided in the user experience as indicated by reference numeral . In this case the consumer is provided with an option to see and interact with a variety of information that is related to a particular piece of media content. For example as a song in the playlist plays the consumer may operate the user interface on the PC or portable media player to look at the artwork for the song s album read a biography of the artist or band performing the song read the lyrics and liner notes and see the artist s discography. The consumer might also read reviews of the song album and or artist from other users of the service from friends on the service or from professional reviewers and critics that write for contemporary magazines or blogs. Similar kinds of information can also be viewed for video content.

Other features of the type and kind that are often packaged with special editions of music or videos as extra or bonus features or that are retailed as box sets can also be supported in the accessible rich metadata. These can include for example interviews with the artists actors and directors commentary bloopers behind the scenes footage outtakes remixes and similar kinds of content. Consumers often value these extra features and find them as an appealing way to learn more about the media content. Such features can be expected to be available for both audio and video content.

The rich metadata can also include live feeds that reflect current or dynamically changing information such as concert dates or news items about an artist band or actor. Additional interfaces or portals to enable purchasing of related items such as concert tickets or merchandise tie ins may also be supported.

Casual users of the service may be expected to find the rich metadata as an easy way to access resources that offer fun and interesting supplements to the media content. Sophisticated users will typically find their needs met by the depth and breadth of the additional related information that they might not be able to find from other resources. For example media content owners might agree as part of their agreements with the provider of the service that certain related information or extra features be exclusively available on the service.

As indicated by reference numeral the consumer is further provided with a rating facility to rate a programmed playlist or its constituent elements such as individual songs or videos. Typically this rating facility will be implemented using a simple rating methodology for example with a Thumbs Up or Thumbs Down paradigm. The user feedback provided by the ratings may enable further refinement of playlists to meet the consumer s tastes.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

