---

title: Compositions comprising HMW-MAA and fragments thereof, and methods of use thereof
abstract: This invention provides recombinant polypeptides comprising a fragment of a High Molecular Weight Melanoma-Associated Antigen (HMW-MAA), recombinant strains comprising same, and methods of inducing an anti-HMW-MAA and anti HER-2/neu immune response thus treating and impeding the growth of tumors, comprising administering same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08268326&OS=08268326&RS=08268326
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08268326
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081003
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 960 538 filed Oct. 3 2007 and is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 889 715 filed Aug. 15 2007 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 837 608 filed Aug. 15 2006 which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under Grant Number RO1CA109253 Y.P. and T32CA09140 M.S. awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a High Molecular Weight Melanoma Associated Antigen HMW MAA recombinant strains comprising same and methods of inducing an immune response and treating and impeding the growth of tumors especially breast tumors comprising administering same.

In women breast cancer is the second most common type of cancer and the second leading cause of cancer related deaths. One in eight women in the United States will develop breast cancer during her lifetime. According to the American Cancer Society ACS approximately 200 000 new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed each year in the United States and the disease causes about 41 000 deaths annually. The incidence of breast cancer rises after age 40. The highest incidence approximately 80 of invasive cases occurs in women over age 50. According to the American Cancer Society about 0.22 percent of men cancer deaths are from breast cancer.

HMW MAA also known as the melanoma chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan MCSP is a transmembrane protein of 2322 residues. HMW MAA is expressed on over 90 of surgically removed benign nevi and melanoma lesions and is also expressed in basal cell carcinoma tumors of neural crest origin e.g. astrocytomas gliomas neuroblastomas and sarcomas childhood leukemias and lobular breast carcinoma lesions. In vitro experimental data shows that HMW MAA is involved in the adhesion spreading and migration of melanoma cells and may have a role in cell invasion and metastasis.

Treatments and cures for many tumors e.g. both HMW MAA expressing and non HMW MAA expressing tumors as well as methods for prevention especially in high risk populations are urgently needed in the art.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide wherein the recombinant polypeptide comprises a peptide encoded by SEQ ID NO 23.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject a method of delaying progression of a tumor in a subject a method of treating or preventing breast cancer in a subject whereby said breast cancer is associated with expression of HER 2 neu antigen in said subject comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide wherein the recombinant polypeptide comprises a peptide encoded by SEQ ID NO 23.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a peptide encoded by SEQ ID NO 23 linked to a non HMW MAA oligopeptide selected from a listeriolysin LLO oligopeptide or a homologue thereof an ActA oligopeptide or a homologue thereof and a PEST like oligopeptide or a homologue thereof.

This invention provides recombinant polypeptides comprising a fragment of a High Molecular Weight Melanoma Associated Antigen HMW MAA recombinant strains comprising same and methods of inducing an immune response and treating and impeding the growth of tumors comprising administering same.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide the recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a HMW MAA protein HMW MAA fragment . In one embodiment the fragment of a HMW MAA protein is encoded by the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 23. In one embodiment said recombinant polypeptide further comprises a second polypeptide which in one embodiment is a non HMW MAA polypeptide and which in another embodiment enhances the immunogenicity of

In another embodiment a recombinant strain of the present invention expresses a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment a recombinant strain of the present invention comprises an isolated nucleic acid that encodes a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment an isolated nucleic acid refers to a nucleic acid segment or fragment which has been separated from sequences which flank it in a naturally occurring state e.g. a DNA fragment which has been removed from the sequences which are normally adjacent to the fragment e.g. the sequences adjacent to the fragment in a genome in which it naturally occurs. The term also applies to nucleic acids which have been substantially purified from other components which naturally accompany the nucleic acid e.g. RNA or DNA or proteins which naturally accompany it in the cell. The term therefore includes for example a recombinant DNA which is incorporated into a vector into an autonomously replicating plasmid or virus or into the genomic DNA of a prokaryote or eukaryote or which exists as a separate molecule e.g. as a cDNA or a genomic or cDNA fragment produced by PCR or restriction enzyme digestion independent of other sequences. It also includes a recombinant DNA which is part of a hybrid gene encoding additional polypeptide sequence.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a which in one embodiment is a vaccine strain comprising an isolated nucleic acid or vector of the present invention. In one embodiment a vaccine strain is used herein to refer to a recombinant organism that expresses a HMW MAA or a portion thereof.

In one embodiment two polynucleotides of the present invention are operably linked. For example in one embodiment polynucleotides encoding LLO and HMW MAA C are operably linked. In one embodiment operably linked indicates that a single stranded or double stranded nucleic acid moiety comprises the two polynucleotides arranged within the nucleic acid moiety in such a manner that they are expressed together. By way of example a promoter operably linked to the coding region of a gene is able to promote transcription of the coding region.

In one embodiment a polynucleotide of the present invention comprises a promoter regulatory sequence which in one embodiment the promoter regulatory is positioned at the 5 end of the desired protein coding sequence such that it drives expression of the desired protein in a cell. Together the nucleic acid encoding the desired protein and its promoter regulatory sequence comprise a transgene. 

In one embodiment the term promoter regulatory sequence refers to a nucleic acid sequence which is required for expression of a gene product operably linked to the promoter regulatory sequence. In some instances this sequence may be the core promoter sequence and in other instances this sequence may also include an enhancer sequence and other regulatory elements which are required for expression of the gene product. The promoter regulatory sequence may for example be one which expresses the gene product in a tissue specific manner.

In one embodiment a constitutive promoter is a nucleotide sequence which when operably linked with a polynucleotide which encodes or specifies a gene product causes the gene product to be produced in a living human cell under most or all physiological conditions of the cell.

In one embodiment an inducible promoter is a nucleotide sequence which when operably linked with a polynucleotide which encodes or specifies a gene product causes the gene product to be produced in a living cell substantially only when an inducer which corresponds to the promoter is present in the cell.

In one embodiment a tissue specific promoter is a nucleotide sequence which when operably linked with a polynucleotide which encodes or specifies a gene product causes the gene product to be produced in a living human cell substantially only if the cell is a cell of the tissue type corresponding to the promoter.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a HMW MAA protein operatively linked to a non HMW MAA oligopeptide selected from a listeriolysin LLO oligopeptide an ActA oligopeptide or a PEST like oligopeptide or a fragment thereof. In one embodiment the fragment has the same or a similar properties or function as the full length peptide or protein as may be demonstrated using assays and tools known in the art. Properties and functions of full length peptides and proteins of the present invention are described in detail hereinbelow.

In other related aspects the invention includes an isolated nucleic acid encoding a truncated ActA LLO or PEST protein and an isolated nucleic acid encoding a HMW MAA protein or fragment operably linked to a nucleic acid comprising a promoter regulatory sequence such that the nucleic acid is preferably capable of directing expression of the protein encoded by the nucleic acid. Thus the invention encompasses expression vectors and methods for the introduction of exogenous DNA into cells with concomitant expression of the exogenous DNA in the cells such as those described for example in Sambrook et al. 1989 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York and in Ausubel et al. 1997 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York .

The invention thus includes a vector comprising an isolated nucleic acid of the present invention. The incorporation of a desired nucleic acid into a vector and the choice of vectors is well known in the art as described in for example Sambrook et al. 1989 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York and in Ausubel et al. 1997 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York .

In one embodiment an isolated nucleic acid of the present invention is expressed under the control of a promoter which in one embodiment is an hly promoter a prfA promoter an ActA promoter or a p60 promoter. In another embodiment the promoter is CMV or CAG promoter. Other promoters that may be used are known in the art.

The invention also includes cells viruses proviruses and the like containing such vectors. Methods for producing cells comprising vectors and or exogenous nucleic acids are well known in the art. See for example Sambrook et al. 1989 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York and in Ausubel et al. 1997 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York .

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a HMW MAA protein wherein the fragment consists of about amino acids AA 360 554 of the HMW MAA protein from which the fragment is derived. In another embodiment the fragment consists of about AA 701 1130. In another embodiment the fragment has a sequence selected from SEQ ID No 21 23. In another embodiment the fragment consists of about AA 2160 2258. In another embodiment the fragment has the SEQ ID No 23. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a HMW MAA protein with an amino acid sequence encoded by a DNA sequence as set forth in SEQ ID No 21.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a HMW MAA protein with an amino acid sequence encoded by a DNA sequence as set forth in SEQ ID No 22.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant polypeptide comprising a fragment of a HMW MAA protein with an amino acid sequence encoded by a DNA sequence as set forth in SEQ ID No 23.

In another embodiment a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention further comprises a non HMW MAA peptide. In another embodiment the non HMW MAA peptide enhances the immunogenicity of the fragment. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The non HMW MAA peptide is in another embodiment a listeriolysin LLO oligopeptide. In another embodiment the non HMW MAA peptide is an ActA oligopeptide. In another embodiment the non HMW MAA peptide is a PEST like oligopeptide. As provided herein fusion to LLO ActA PEST like sequences and fragments thereof enhances the cell mediated immunogenicity of antigens. In one embodiment fusion to LLO ActA PEST like sequences and fragments thereof enhances the cell mediated immunogenicity of antigens in a variety of expression systems. In one embodiment the expression system is viral while in another embodiment the expression system is bacterial. In another embodiment the non HMW MAA peptide is any other immunogenic non HMW MAA peptide known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

An LLO oligopeptide of methods and compositions of the present invention is in another embodiment a non hemolytic LLO oligopeptide. In another embodiment the oligopeptide is an LLO fragment. In another embodiment the oligopeptide is a complete LLO protein. In another embodiment the oligopeptide is any LLO protein or fragment thereof known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the LLO protein is the major virulence factor of Lm responsible for the lysis of the phagolysosome. In one embodiment LLO is highly immunogenic in another embodiment LLO induces maturation of antigen specific T cells into Th1 cells and in another embodiment LLO induces interferon gamma secretion by T cells.

In one embodiment the LLO fragment comprises a mutation in the cholesterol binding domain or a deletion within the cholesterol binding domain or a deletion of the cholesterol binding domain which in one embodiment renders the LLO non hemolytic. In another embodiment the LLO fragment is rendered non hemolytic by chemical treatment. In another embodiment the chemical treatment comprises glutaraldehyde. In another embodiment the chemical treatment comprises a similarly acting compound. In another embodiment the chemical treatment comprises any other suitable compound known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the LLO protein utilized to construct vaccines of the present invention has the following sequence 

MKKIMLVFITLILVSLPIAQQTEAKDASAFNKENSIS SMAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHADEIDKYIQ GLDYNKNNVLVYHGDAVTNVPPRKGYKDGNEYIVVEKKKKSINQNNADIQVVNAISSLTYPG ALVKANSELVENQPDVLPVKRDSLTLSIDLPGMTNQDNKIVVKNATKSNVNNAVNTLVERWN EKYAQAYPNVSAKIDYDDEMAYSES QLIAKFGTAFKAVNNSLNVNFGAISEGKMQEEVISFKQ IYYNVNVNEPTRPSRFFGKAVTKEQLQALGVNAENPPAYIS SVAYGRQVYLKLSTNSHSTKVK AAFDAAVSGKSVSGDVELTNIIKNS SFKAVIYGGSAKDEVQIIDGNLGDLRDILKKGATFNRETP GVPIAYTTNFLKDNELAVIKNNSEYIETTSKAYTDGKINIDHS GGYVAQFNISWDEVNYDPEGN EIVQHKNWSENNKSKLAHFTS SIYLPGNARNINVYAKECTGLAWEWWRTVIDDRNLPLVKNR NISIWGTTLYPKYSNKVDNPIE GenBank Accession No. P13128 SEQ ID NO 1 the nucleic acid sequence is set forth in GenBank Accession No. X15127 . In one embodiment the first 25 AA of the proprotein corresponding to this sequence are the signal sequence and are cleaved from LLO when it is secreted by the bacterium. Thus according to this embodiment the full length active LLO protein is 504 residues long. In another embodiment the above sequence is used as the source of the LLO fragment incorporated in a vaccine of the present invention. In another embodiment an LLO AA sequence of methods and compositions of the present invention is a homologue of SEQ ID No 1. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a variant of SEQ ID No 1. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a fragment of SEQ ID No 1. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is an isoform of SEQ ID No 1. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment an isoform is a peptide or protein that has the same function and a similar or identical sequence to another peptide or protein but is the product of a different gene. In one embodiment a variant is a peptide or protein that differs from another peptide or protein in a minor way which in one embodiment refers to a mutation in a region that does not affect the function of the peptide or protein and in another embodiment a conservative mutation that does not affect the function of the peptide or protein.

In another embodiment an LLO protein fragment is utilized in compositions and methods of the present invention. In another embodiment the LLO fragment is an N terminal fragment. In another embodiment the N terminal LLO fragment has the sequence 

MKKIMLVFITLILVSLPIAQQTEAKDASAFNKENSIS SVAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHADEIDKYIQ GLDYNKNNVLVYHGDAVTNVPPRKGYKDGNEYIVVEKKKKSINQNNADIQVVNAISSLTYP GALVKANSELVENQPDVLPVKRDSLTLSIDLPGMTNQDNKIVVKNATKSNVNNAVNTLVER WNEKYAQAYSNVSAKIDYDDEMAYSESQLIAKFGTAFKAVNNSLNVNFGAISEGKMQEEVIS FKQIYYNVNVNEPTRPSRFFGKAVTKEQLQALGVNAENPPAYISSVAYGRQVYLKLSTNSHST KVKAAFDAAVSGKSVS GDVELTNIIKNSSFKAVIYGGSAKDEVQIIDGNLGDLRDILKKGATFN RETPGVPIAYTTNFLKDNELAVIKNNSEYIETTSKAYTDGKINIDHSGGYVAQFNISWDEVNYD SEQ ID NO 2 . In another embodiment an LLO AA sequence of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 2. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a homologue of SEQ ID No 2. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a variant of SEQ ID No 2. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a fragment of SEQ ID No 2. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is an isoform of SEQ ID No 2. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

MKKIMLVFITLILVSLPIAQQTEAKDASAFNKENSIS SVAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHADEIDKYIQ GLDYNKNNVLVYHGDAVTNVPPRKGYKDGNEYIVVEKKKKSINQNNADIQVVNAISSLTYP GALVKANSELVENQPDVLPVKRDSLTLSIDLPGMTNQDNKIVVKNATKSNVNNAVNTLVER WNEKYAQAYSNVSAKIDYDDEMAYSESQLIAKFGTAFKAVNNSLNVNFGAISEGKMQEEVI SFKQIYYNVNVNEPTRPSRFFGKAVTKEQLQALGVNAENPPAYISSVAYGRQVYLKLSTNSH STKVKAAFDAAVSGKSVS GDVELTNIIKNSSFKAVIYGGSAKDEVQIiDGNLGDLRDILKKGA TFNRETPGVPIAYTTNFLKDNELAVIKNNSEYIETTSKAYTD SEQ ID NO 3 . In another embodiment an LLO AA sequence of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 3. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a homologue of SEQ ID No 3. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a variant of SEQ ID No 3. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is a fragment of SEQ ID No 3. In another embodiment the LLO AA sequence is an isoform of SEQ ID No 3. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the LLO fragment of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises a PEST like domain. In another embodiment an LLO fragment that comprises a PEST sequence is utilized as part of a composition or in the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the LLO fragment does not contain the activation domain at the carboxy terminus. In another embodiment the LLO fragment does not include cysteine 484. In another embodiment the LLO fragment is a non hemolytic fragment. In another embodiment the LLO fragment is rendered non hemolytic by deletion or mutation of the activation domain. In another embodiment the LLO fragment is rendered non hemolytic by deletion or mutation of cysteine 484. In another embodiment an LLO sequence is rendered non hemolytic by deletion or mutation at another location.

In another embodiment the LLO fragment consists of about the first 441 AA of the LLO protein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment comprises about the first 400 441 AA of the 529 AA full length LLO protein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to AA 1 441 of an LLO protein disclosed herein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment consists of about the first 420 AA of LLO. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to AA 1 420 of an LLO protein disclosed herein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment consists of about AA 20 442 of LLO. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to AA 20 442 of an LLO protein disclosed herein. In another embodiment any LLO without the activation domain comprising cysteine 484 and in particular without cysteine 484 are suitable for methods and compositions of the present invention.

In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to the first 400 AA of an LLO protein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to the first 300 AA of an LLO protein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to the first 200 AA of an LLO protein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to the first 100 AA of an LLO protein. In another embodiment the LLO fragment corresponds to the first 50 AA of an LLO protein which in one embodiment comprises one or more PEST like sequences.

In another embodiment the LLO fragment contains residues of a homologous LLO protein that correspond to one of the above AA ranges. The residue numbers need not in another embodiment correspond exactly with the residue numbers enumerated above e.g. if the homologous LLO protein has an insertion or deletion relative to an LLO protein utilized herein.

In another embodiment homologues of LLO from other species including known lysins such as streptolysin O perfringolysin O pneumolysin etc or fragments thereof may be used as the non HMW MAA.

In another embodiment of methods and compositions of the present invention a fragment of an ActA protein is fused to the HMW MAA fragment. In another embodiment the fragment of an ActA protein has the sequence 

MRAMMVVFITANCITINPDIIFAATDSEDS SLNTDEWEEEKTEEQPSEVNTGPRYETAR EVSSRDIKELEKSNKVRNTNKADLIAMLKEKAEKGPNINNNNSEQTENAAINEEASGADRPAI QVERRHPGLPSDSAAEIKKRRKAIASSDSELESLTYPDKPTKVNKKKVAKESVADASESDLDS SMQSADES SPQPLKANQQPFFPKVFKKIKDAGKWVRDKIDENPEVKKAIVDKSAGLIDQLLTK KKSEEVNASDFPPPPTDEELRLALPETPMLLGFNAPATSEPSSFEFPPPPTDEELRLALPETPMLL GFNAPATSEPSSFEFPPPPTEDELEIIRETASSLDSSFTRGDLASLRNAINRHSQNFSDFPPIPTEEE LNGRGGRP SEQ ID No 4 . In another embodiment an ActA AA sequence of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 4. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is a homologue of SEQ ID No 4. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is a variant of SEQ ID No 4. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is a fragment of SEQ ID No 4. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is an isoform of SEQ ID No 4. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the ActA fragment is encoded by a recombinant nucleotide comprising the sequence 

ATGCGTGCGATGATGGTGGTTTTCATTACTGCCAATTGCATTACGATTAACCCCGACATAA TATTTGCAGCGACAGATAGCGAAGATTCTAGTCTAAACACAGATGAATGGGAAGAAGAAA AAACAGAAGAGCAACCAAGCGAGGTAAATACGGGACCAAGATACGAAACTGCACGTGAA GTAAGTTCACGTGATATTAAAGAACTAGAAAAATCGAATAAAGTGAGAAATACGAACAAA GCAGACCTAATAGCAATGTTGAAAGAAAAAGCAGAAAAAGGTCCAAATATCAATAATAAC AACAGTGAACAAACTGAGAATGCGGCTATAAATGAAGAGGCTTCAGGAGCCGACCGACCA GCTATACAAGTGGAGCGTCGTCATCCAGGATTGCCATCGGATAGCGCAGCGGAAATTAAAA AAAGAAGGAAAGCCATAGCATCATCGGATAGTGAGCTTGAAAGCCTTACTTATCCGGATAA ACCAACAAAAGTAAATAAGAAAAAAGTGGCGAAAGAGTCAGTTGCGGATGCTTCTGAAAG TGACTTAGATTCTAGCATGCAGTCAGCAGATGAGTCTTCACCACAACCTTTAAAAGCAAAC CAACAACCATTTTTCCCTAAAGTATTTAAAAAAATAAAAGATGCGGGGAAATGGGTACGTG ATAAAATCGACGAAAATCCTGAAGTAAAGAAAGCGATTGTTGATAAAAGTGCAGGGTTAA TTGACCAATTATTAACCAAAAAGAAAAGTGAAGAGGTAAATGCTTCGGACTTCCCGCCACC ACCTACGGATGAAGAGTTAAGACTTGCTTTGCCAGAGACACCAATGCTTCTTGGTTTTAAT GCTCCTGCTACATCAGAACCGAGCTCATTCGAATTTCCACCACCACCTACGGATGAAGAGT TAAGACTTGCTTTGCCAGAGACGCCAATGCTTCTTGGTTTTAATGCTCCTGCTACATCGGAA CCGAGCTCGTTCGAATTTCCACCGCCTCCAACAGAAGATGAACTAGAAATCATCCGGGAA ACAGCATCCTCGCTAGATTCTAGTTTTACAAGAGGGGATTTAGCTAGTTTGAGAAATGCTA TTAATCGCCATAGTCAAAATTTCTCTGATTTCCCACCAATCCCAACAGAAGAAGAGTTGAA CGGGAGAGGCGGTAGACCA SEQ ID NO 5 . In another embodiment the recombinant nucleotide has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 5. In another embodiment an ActA encoding nucleotide of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 5. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is a homologue of SEQ ID No 5. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is a variant of SEQ ID No 5. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is a fragment of SEQ ID No 5. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is an isoform of SEQ ID No 5. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment of methods and compositions of the present invention a fragment of an ActA protein is fused to the HMW MAA fragment. In another embodiment the fragment of an ActA protein has the sequence as set forth in Genbank Accession No. AAF04762. In another embodiment an ActA AA sequence of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in Genbank Accession No. AAF04762. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is a homologue of Genbank Accession No. AAF04762. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is a variant of Genbank Accession No. AAF04762.

In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is a fragment of Genbank Accession No. AAF04762. In another embodiment the ActA AA sequence is an isoform of Genbank Accession No. AAF04762. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the ActA fragment is encoded by a recombinant nucleotide comprising the sequence as set forth in Genbank Accession No. AF103807. In another embodiment the recombinant nucleotide has the sequence set forth in Genbank Accession No. AF103807. In another embodiment an ActA encoding nucleotide of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in Genbank Accession No. AF103807. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is a homologue of Genbank Accession No. AF103807. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is a variant of Genbank Accession No. AF103807. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is a fragment of Genbank Accession No. AF103807. In another embodiment the ActA encoding nucleotide is an isoform of Genbank Accession No. AF103807. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the ActA fragment is any other ActA fragment known in the art. In another embodiment a recombinant nucleotide of the present invention comprises any other sequence that encodes a fragment of an ActA protein. In another embodiment the recombinant nucleotide comprises any other sequence that encodes an entire ActA protein. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment of methods and compositions of the present invention a PEST like AA sequence is fused to the HMW MAA fragment. In another embodiment the PEST like AA sequence is KENSISSMAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHADEIDK SEQ ID NO 6 . In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is KENSISSMAPPASPPASPK SEQ ID No 7 . In another embodiment fusion of an antigen to any LLO sequence that includes one of the PEST like AA sequences enumerated herein can enhance cell mediated immunity against HMW MAA.

In another embodiment the PEST like AA sequence is a PEST like sequence from a ActA protein. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is KTEEQPSEVNTGPR SEQ ID NO 8 KASVTDTSEGDLDSSMQSADESTPQPLK SEQ ID NO 9 KNEEVNASDFPPPPTDEELR SEQ ID NO 10 or RGGIPTSEEFSSLNSGDFTDDENSETTEEEIDR SEQ ID NO 11 . In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is a variant of the PEST like sequence described hereinabove which in one embodiment is KSVDSEDLDSSMQSADESTPQPLK SEQ ID NO 46 KEEVNASDFPPPPTDEELR SEQ ID NO 47 or RGGPTSEEFSSLNSGDFTDDENSETTEEEIDR SEQ ID NO 48 as would be understood by a skilled artisan. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is from cytolysin encoded by the lso gene. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is RSEVTISPAETPESPPATP SEQ ID NO 12 .

In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is from Streptolysin O protein of sp. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is from Streptolysin O e.g. KQNTASTETTTTNEQPK SEQ ID NO 13 at AA 35 51. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is from Streptolysin O. e.g. KQNTANTETTTTNEQPK SEQ ID NO 14 at AA 38 54. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence has a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO 8 14. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence has a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO 6 14. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is another PEST like AA sequence derived from a prokaryotic organism.

Identification of PEST like sequences is well known in the art and is described for example in Rogers S et al Amino acid sequences common to rapidly degraded proteins the PEST hypothesis. Science 1986 234 4774 364 8 and Rechsteiner M et al PEST sequences and regulation by proteolysis. Trends Biochem Sci 1996 21 7 267 71 . PEST like sequence refers in another embodiment to a region rich in proline P glutamic acid E serine S and threonine T residues. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is flanked by one or more clusters containing several positively charged amino acids. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence mediates rapid intracellular degradation of proteins containing it. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence fits an algorithm disclosed in Rogers et al. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence fits an algorithm disclosed in Rechsteiner et al. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence contains one or more internal phosphorylation sites and phosphorylation at these sites precedes protein degradation.

In one embodiment PEST like sequences of prokaryotic organisms are identified in accordance with methods such as described by for example Rechsteiner and Rogers 1996 Trends Biochem. Sci. 21 267 271 for LM and in Rogers S et al Science 1986 234 4774 364 8 . Alternatively PEST like AA sequences from other prokaryotic organisms can also be identified based on this method. Other prokaryotic organisms wherein PEST like AA sequences would be expected to include but are not limited to other species. In one embodiment the PEST like sequence fits an algorithm disclosed in Rogers et al. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence fits an algorithm disclosed in Rechsteiner et al. In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is identified using the PEST find program.

In another embodiment identification of PEST motifs is achieved by an initial scan for positively charged AA R H and K within the specified protein sequence. All AA between the positively charged flanks are counted and only those motifs are considered further which contain a number of AA equal to or higher than the window size parameter. In another embodiment a PEST like sequence must contain at least 1 P 1 D or E and at least 1 S or T.

In another embodiment the quality of a PEST motif is refined by means of a scoring parameter based on the local enrichment of critical AA as well as the motifs hydrophobicity. Enrichment of D E P S and T is expressed in mass percent w w and corrected for 1 equivalent of D or E 1 of P and 1 of S or T. In another embodiment calculation of hydrophobicity follows in principle the method of J. Kyte and R. F. Doolittle Kyte J and Dootlittle R F. J. Mol. Biol. 157 105 1982 . For simplified calculations Kyte Doolittle hydropathy indices which originally ranged from 4.5 for arginine to 4.5 for isoleucine are converted to positive integers using the following linear transformation which yielded values from 0 for arginine to 90 for isoleucine. Hydropathy index 10 Kyte Doolittle hydropathy index 45

In another embodiment a potential PEST motif s hydrophobicity is calculated as the sum over the products of mole percent and hydrophobicity index for each AA species. The desired PEST score is obtained as combination of local enrichment term and hydrophobicity term as expressed by the following equation PEST score 0.55 DEPST 0.5 hydrophobicity index.

In another embodiment PEST sequence PEST like sequence or PEST like sequence peptide refers to a peptide having a score of at least 5 using the above algorithm. In another embodiment the term refers to a peptide having a score of at least 6. In another embodiment the peptide has a score of at least 7. In another embodiment the score is at least 8. In another embodiment the score is at least 9. In another embodiment the score is at least 10. In another embodiment the score is at least 11. In another embodiment the score is at least 12. In another embodiment the score is at least 13. In another embodiment the score is at least 14. In another embodiment the score is at least 15. In another embodiment the score is at least 16. In another embodiment the score is at least 17. In another embodiment the score is at least 18. In another embodiment the score is at least 19. In another embodiment the score is at least 20. In another embodiment the score is at least 21. In another embodiment the score is at least 22. In another embodiment the score is at least 22. In another embodiment the score is at least 24. In another embodiment the score is at least 24. In another embodiment the score is at least 25. In another embodiment the score is at least 26. In another embodiment the score is at least 27. In another embodiment the score is at least 28. In another embodiment the score is at least 29. In another embodiment the score is at least 30. In another embodiment the score is at least 32. In another embodiment the score is at least 35. In another embodiment the score is at least 38. In another embodiment the score is at least 40. In another embodiment the score is at least 45. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is identified using any other method or algorithm known in the art e.g the CaSPredictor Garay Malpartida H M Occhiucci J M Alves J Belizario J E. Bioinformatics. 2005 June 21 Suppl 1 i169 76 . In another embodiment the following method is used 

A PEST index is calculated for each stretch of appropriate length e.g. a 30 35 AA stretch by assigning a value of 1 to the AA Ser Thr Pro Glu Asp Asn or Gln. The coefficient value CV for each of the PEST residue is 1 and for each of the other AA non PEST is 0.

Each method for identifying a PEST like sequence represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the PEST like sequence is any other PEST like sequence known in the art. Each PEST like sequence and type thereof represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

 Fusion to a PEST like sequence refers in another embodiment to fusion to a protein fragment comprising a PEST like sequence. In another embodiment the term includes cases wherein the protein fragment comprises surrounding sequence other than the PEST like sequence. In another embodiment the protein fragment consists of the PEST like sequence. Thus in another embodiment fusion refers to two peptides or protein fragments either linked together at their respective ends or embedded one within the other. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the HMW MAA fragment of methods and compositions of the present invention is fused to the non HMW MAA AA sequence. In another embodiment the HMW MAA fragment is embedded within the non HMW MAA AA sequence. In another embodiment an HMW MAA derived peptide is incorporated into an LLO fragment ActA protein or fragment or PEST like sequence. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment fusion proteins of the present invention are prepared by a process comprising subcloning of appropriate sequences followed by expression of the resulting nucleotide. In another embodiment subsequences are cloned and the appropriate subsequences cleaved using appropriate restriction enzymes. The fragments are then ligated in another embodiment to produce the desired DNA sequence. In another embodiment DNA encoding the fusion protein is produced using DNA amplification methods for example polymerase chain reaction PCR . First the segments of the native DNA on either side of the new terminus are amplified separately. The 5 end of the one amplified sequence encodes the peptide linker while the 3 end of the other amplified sequence also encodes the peptide linker. Since the 5 end of the first fragment is complementary to the 3 end of the second fragment the two fragments after partial purification e.g. on LMP agarose can be used as an overlapping template in a third PCR reaction. The amplified sequence will contain codons the segment on the carboxy side of the opening site now forming the amino sequence the linker and the sequence on the amino side of the opening site now forming the carboxyl sequence . The insert is then ligated into a plasmid. In another embodiment a similar strategy is used to produce a protein wherein an HMW MAA fragment is embedded within a heterologous peptide.

In one embodiment LLO sequences fused to a HMW MAA fragment such as A B or C or expressing a HMW MAA fragment increased the immune response to said peptide Example 5 conferred antitumor immunity Examples 4 and 5 and generated peptide specific IFN gamma secreting CD8 cells Example 5 . In one embodiment ActA LLO and or PEST like sequences fused to a peptide such as HPV E7 increased the immune response to said peptide conferred antitumor immunity and generated peptide specific IFN gamma secreting CD8 cells Examples 7 and 8 even when the fusion peptide was expressed in a non vector Example 9 .

In another embodiment a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention is made by a process comprising the step of chemically conjugating a first polypeptide comprising an HMW MAA fragment to a second polypeptide comprising a non HMW MAA peptide. In another embodiment an HMW MAA fragment is conjugated to a second polypeptide comprising the non HMW MAA peptide. In another embodiment a peptide comprising an HMW MAA fragment is conjugated to a non HMW MAA peptide. In another embodiment an HMW MAA fragment is conjugated to a non HMW MAA peptide. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment HMW MAA used in the compositions and methods of the present invention are involved in the adhesion spreading and migration of melanoma cells and may have a role in cell invasion and metastasis. In one embodiment HMW MAA has a restricted expression in normal tissues although it is expressed at high levels on both activated pericytes and pericytes in tumor angiogenic vasculature which are associated with neovascularization in vivo.

The HMW MAA protein from which HMW MAA fragments of the present invention are derived is in another embodiment a human HMW MAA protein. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is a mouse protein. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is a rat protein. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is a primate protein. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is from any other species known in the art. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is melanoma chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan MCSP . In another embodiment an AN2 protein is used in methods and compositions of the present invention. In one embodiment AN2 is a murine homolog of HMW MAA and in one embodiment has 80 homology to HMW MAA as well as a similar expression pattern and function. In another embodiment an NG2 protein is used in methods and compositions of the present invention.

In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein of methods and compositions of the present invention has the sequence 

MQSGRGPPLPAPGLALALTLTMLARLASAASFFGENHLEVPVATALTDIDLQLQFSTSQ PEALLLLAAGPADHLLLQLYS GRLQVRLVLGQEELRLQTPAETLLSDSIPHTVVLTVVEGWATL SVDGFLNASSAVPGAPLEVPYGLFVGGTGTLGLPYLRGTSRPLRGCLHAATLNGRSLLRPLTPD VHEGCAEEFSASDDVALGFSGPHSLAAFPAWGTQDEGTLEFTLTTQSRQAPLAFQAGGRRGDF IYVDIFEGHLRAVVEKGQGTVLLHNSVPVADGQPHEVSVHINAHRLEISVDQYPTHTSNRGVLS YLEPRGSLLLGGLDAEASRHLQEHRLGLTPEATNASLLGCMEDLSVNGQRRGLREALLTRNMA AGCRLEEEEYEDDAYGHYEAFSTLAPEAWPAMELPEPCVPEPGLPPVFANFTQLLTISPLVVAE GGTAWLEWRHVQPTLDLMEAELRKSQVLFSVTRGARHGELELDIPGAQARKMFTLLDVVNR KARFIHDGSEDTSDQLVLEVSVTARVPMPSCLRRGQTYLLPIQVNPVNDPPHIIFPHGSLMVILE HTQKPLGPEVFQAYDPDSACEGLTFQVLGTS SGLPVERRDQPGEPATEFSCRELEAGSLVYVH RGGPAQDLTFRVSDGLQASPPATLKVVAIRPAIQIHRSTGLRLAQGSAMPILPANLSVETNAVG QDVSVLFRVTGALQFGELQKQGAGGVEGAEWWATQAFHQRDVEQGRVRYLSTDPQHHAYD TVENLALEVQVGQEILSNLSFPVTIQRATVWMLRLEPLHTQNTQQETLTTAHLEATLEEAGPSPP TFHYEVVQAPRKGNLQLQGTRLSDGQGFTQDDIQAGRVTYGATARASEAVEDTFRFRVTAPPY FSPLYTFPIHIGGDPDAPVLTNVLLVVPEGGEGVLSADHLFVKSLNSASYLYEVMERPRHGRLA WRGTQDKTTMVTSFTNEDLLRGRLVYQHDDSETTEDDIPFVATRQGES SGDMAWEEVRGVFR VAIQPVNDHAPVQTISRIFHVARGGRRLLTTDDVAFSDADS GFADAQLVLTRKDLLFGSIVAVD EPTRPIYRFTQEDLRKRRVLFVHSGADRGWIQLQVSDGQHQATALLEVQASEPYLRVANGSSL VVPQGGQGTIDTAVLHLDTNLDIRSGDEVHYHVTAGPRWGQLVRAGQPATAFSQQDLLDGAV LYSHNGSLSPRDTMAFSVEAGPVHTDATLQVTIALEGPLAPLKLVRHKKIYVFQGEAAEIRRDQ LEAAQEAVPPADIVFSVKSPPSAGYLVMVSRGALADEPPSLDPVQSFSQEAVDTGRVLYLHSRP EAWSDAFSLDVAS GLGAPLEGVLVELEVLPAAIPLEAQNFSVPEGGSLTLAPPLLRVSGPYFPTL LGLSLQVLEPPQHGALQKEDGPQARTLSAFSWRMVEEQLIRYVHDGSETLTDSFVLMANASEM DRQSHPVAFTVTVLPVNDQPPILTTNTGLQMWEGATAPIPAEALRSTDGDSGSEDLVYTIEQPS NGRVVLRGAPGTEVRSFTQAQLDGGLVLFSHRGTLDGGFRFRLSDGEHTSPGHFFRVTAQKQV LLSLKGSQTLTVCPGSVQPLSSQTLRASSSAGTDPQLLLYRVVRGPQLGRLFHAQQDSTGEALV NFTQAEVYAGNILYEHEMPPEPFWEAHDTLELQLS SPPARDVAATLAVAVSFEAACPQRPSHL WKNKGLWVPEGQRARITVAALDASNLLASVPSPQRSEHDVLFQVTQFPSRGQLLVSEEPLHAG QPHFLQSQLAAGQLVYAHGGGGTQQDGFHFRAHLQGPAGASVAGPQTSEAFAITVRDVNERP PQPQASVPLRLTRGSRAPISRAQLSVVDPDSAPGEIEYEVQRAPHNGFLSLVGGGLGPVTRFTQA DVDSGRLAFVANGSSVAGIFQLSMSDGASPPLPMSLAVDILPSAIEVQLRAPLEVPQALGRSSLS QQQLRVVSDREEPEAAYRLIQGPQYGHLLVGGRPTSAFS QFQIDQGEVVFAFTNFSSSHDHFRV LALARGVNASAVVNVTVRALLHVWAGGPWPQGATLRLDPTVLDAGELANRTGSVPRFRLLE GPRHGRVVRVPRARTEPGGSQLVEQFTQQDLEDGRLGLEVGRPEGRAPGPAGDSLTLELWAQ GVPPAVASLDFATEPYNAARPYSVALLSVPEAARTEAGKPES STPTGEPGPMASSPEPAVAKG GFLSFLEANMFSVIIPMCLVLLLLALILPLLFYLRKRNKTGKHDVQVLTAKPRNGLAGDTETFR KVEPGQAIPLTAVPGQGPPPGGQPDPELLQFCRTPNPALKNGQYWV SEQ ID No 15 . In another embodiment an HMW MAA AA sequence of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 15. In another embodiment the HMW MAA AA sequence is a homologue of SEQ ID No 15. In another embodiment the HMW MAA AA sequence is a variant of SEQ ID No 15. In another embodiment the HMW MAA AA sequence is a fragment of SEQ ID No 15. In another embodiment the HMW MAA AA sequence is an isoform of SEQ ID No 15. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein of methods and compositions of the present invention is encoded by the sequence 

atgcagtccggccgcggccccccacttccagcccccggcctggccttggctttgaccctgactatgttggccagacttgcatccgcggcttccttcttcg gtgagaaccacctggaggtgcctgtggccacggctctgaccgacatagacctgcagctgcagttctccacgtcccagcccgaagccctccttctcctg gcagcaggcccagctgaccacctcctgctgcagctctactctggacgcctgcaggtcagacttgttctgggccaggaggagctgaggctgcagactc cagcagagacgctgctgagtgactccatcccccacactgtggtgctgactgtcgtagagggctgggccacgttgtcagtcgatgggtttctgaacgcct cctcagcagtcccaggagcccccctagaggtcccctatgggctctttgttgggggcactgggacccttggcctgccctacctgaggggaaccagccg acccctgaggggttgcctccatgcagccaccctcaatggccgcagcctcctccggcctctgacccccgatgtgcatgagggctgtgctgaagagttttc tgccagtgatgatgtggccctgggcttctctgggccccactctctggctgccttccctgcctggggcactcaggacgaaggaaccctagagtttacactc accacacagagccggcaggcacccttggccttccaggcagggggccggcgtggggacttcatctatgtggacatatttgagggccacctgcgggcc gtggtggagaagggccagggtaccgtattgctccacaacagtgtgcctgtggccgatgggcagccccatgaggtcagtgtccacatcaatgctcaccg gctggaaatctccgtggaccagtaccctacgcatacttcgaaccgaggagtcctcagctacctggagccacggggcagtctccttctcggggggctgg atgcagaggcctctcgtcacctccaggaacaccgcctgggcctgacaccagaggccaccaatgcctccctgctgggctgcatggaagacctcagtgtc aatggccagaggcgggggctgcgggaagctttgctgacgcgcaacatggcagccggctgcaggctggaggaggaggagtatgaggacgatgccta tggacattatgaagctttctccaccctggcccctgaggcttggccagccatggagctgcctgagccatgcgtgcctgagccagggctgcctcctgtcttt gccaatttcacccagctgctgactatcagcccactggtggtggccgaggggggcacagcctggcttgagtggaggcatgtgcagcccacgctggacct gatggaggctgagctgcgcaaatcccaggtgctgttcagcgtgacccgaggggcacgccatggcgagctcgagctggacatcccgggagcccagg cacgaaaaatgttcaccctcctggacgtggtgaaccgcaaggcccgcttcatccacgatggctctgaggacacctccgaccagctggtgctggaggtg tcggtgacggctcgggtgcccatgccctcatgccttcggaggggccaaacatacctcctgcccatccaggtcaaccctgtcaatgacccaccccacatc atcttcccacatggcagcctcatggtgatcctggaacacacgcagaagccgctggggcctgaggttttccaggcctatgacccggactctgcctgtgag ggcctcaccttccaggtccttggcacctcctctggcctccccgtggagcgccgagaccagcctggggagccggcgaccgagttctcctgccgggagtt ggaggccggcagcctagtctatgtccaccgcggtggtcctgcacaggacttgacgttccgggtcagcgatggactgcaggccagccccccggccac gctgaaggtggtggccatccggccggccatacagatccaccgcagcacagggttgcgactggcccaaggctctgccatgcccatcttgcccgccaac ctgtcggtggagaccaatgccgtggggcaggatgtgagcgtgctgttccgcgtcactggggccctgcagtttggggagctgcagaagcagggggcag gtggggtggagggtgctgagtggtgggccacacaggcgttccaccagcgggatgtggagcagggccgcgtgaggtacctgagcactgacccacagc accacgcttacgacaccgtggagaacctggccctggaggtgcaggtgggccaggagatcctgagcaatctgtccttcccagtgaccatccagagagc cactgtgtggatgctgcggctggagccactgcacactcagaacacccagcaggagaccctcaccacagcccacctggaggccaccctggaggaggc aggcccaagccccccaaccttccattatgaggtggttcaggctcccaggaaaggcaaccttcaactacagggcacaaggctgtcagatggccagggc ttcacccaggatgacatacaggctggccgggtgacctatggggccacagcacgtgcctcagaggcagtcgaggacaccttccgtttccgtgtcacagc tccaccatatttctccccactctataccttccccatccacattggtggtgacccagatgcgcctgtcctcaccaatgtcctcctcgtggtgcctgagggtgg tgagggtgtcctctctgctgaccacctctttgtcaagagtctcaacagtgccagctacctctatgaggtcatggagcggccccgccatgggaggttggct tggcgtgggacacaggacaagaccactatggtgacatccttcaccaatgaagacctgttgcgtggccggctggtctaccagcatgatgactccgagac cacagaagatgatatcccatttgttgctacccgccagggcgagagcagtggtgacatggcctgggaggaggtacggggtgtcttccgagtggccatcc agcccgtgaatgaccacgcccctgtgcagaccatcagccggatcttccatgtggcccggggtgggcggcggctgctgactacagacgacgtggcctt cagcgatgctgactcgggctttgctgacgcccagctggtgcttacccgcaaggacctcctctttggcagtatcgtggccgtagatgagcccacgcggc catctaccgcttcacccaggaggacctcaggaagaggcgagtactgttcgtgcactcaggggctgaccgtggctggatccagctgcaggtgtccgacg ggcaacaccaggccactgcgctgctggaggtgcaggcctcggaaccctacctccgtgtggccaacggctccagccttgtggtccctcaagggggcc agggcaccatcgacacggccgtgctccacctggacaccaacctcgacatccgcagtggggatgaggtccactaccacgtcacagctggccctcgctg gggacagctagtccgggctggtcagccagccacagccttctcccagcaggacctgctggatggggccgttctctatagccacaatggcagcctcagcc cccgcgacaccatggccttctccgtggaagcagggccagtgcacacggatgccaccctacaagtgaccattgcctagagggcccactggccccact gaagctggtccggcacaagaagatctacgtcttccagggagaggcagctgagatcagaagggaccagctggaggcagcccaggaggcagtgccac ctgcagacatcgtattctcagtgaagagcccaccgagtgccggctacctggtgatggtgtcgcgtggcgccttggcagatgagccacccagcctggac cctgtgcagagcttctcccaggaggcagtggacacaggcagggtcctgtacctgcactcccgccctgaggcctggagcgatgccttctcgctggatgt ggcctcaggcctgggtgctcccctcgagggcgtccttgtggagctggaggtgctgcccgctgccatcccactagaggcgcaaaacttcagcgtccctg agggtggcagcctcaccctggcccctccactgctccgtgtctccgggccctacttccccactctcctgggcctcagcctgcaggtgctggagccacccc agcatggagccctgcagaaggaggacggacctcaagccaggaccctcagcgccttctcctggagaatggtggaagagcagctgatccgctacgtgc atgacgggagcgagacactgacagacagttttgtcctgatggctaatgcctccgagatggatcgccagagccatcctgtggccttcactgtcactgtcct gcctgtcaatgaccaaccccccatcctcactacaaacacaggcctgcagatgtgggagggggccactgcgcccatccctgcggaggctctgaggagc acggacggcgactctgggtctgaggatctggtctacaccatcgagcagcccagcaacgggcgggtagtgctgcggggggcgccgggcactgaggt gcgcagcttcacgcaggcccagctggacggcgggctcgtgctgttctcacacagaggaaccctggatggaggcttccgcttccgcctctctgacggc gagcacacttcccccggacacttcttccgagtgacggcccagaagcaagtgctcctctcgctgaagggcagccagacactgactgtctgcccagggtc cgtccagccactcagcagtcagaccctcagggccagctccagcgcaggcactgacccccagctcctgctctaccgtgtggtgcggggccccagcta ggccggctgttccacgcccagcaggacagcacaggggaggccctggtgaacttcactcaggcagaggtctacgctgggaatattctgtatgagcatg agatgccccccgagccttttgggaggcccatgataccctagagctccagctgtcctcgccgcctgcccgggacgtggccgccacccttgctgtggct gtgtcttttgaggctgcctgtccccagcgccccagccacctctggaagaacaaaggtctctgggtccccgagggccagcgggccaggatcaccgtgg ctgctctggatgcctccaatctcttggccagcgttccatcaccccagcgctcagagcatgatgtgctcttccaggtcacacagttccccagccggggcca gctgttggtgtccgaggagcccctccatgctgggcagccccacttcctgcagtcccagctggctgcagggcagctagtgtatgcccacggcggtgggg gcacccagcaggatggcttccactttcgtgcccacctccaggggccagcaggggcctccgtggctggaccccaaacctcagaggcctttgccatcac ggtgagggatgtaaatgagcggccccctcagccacaggcctctgtcccactccggctcacccgaggctctcgtgcccccatctcccgggcccagctg agtgtggtggacccagactcagctcctggggagattgagtacgaggtccagcgggcaccccacaacggcttcctcagcctggtgggtggtggcctgg ggcccgtgacccgcttcacgcaagccgatgtggattcagggcggctggccttcgtggccaacgggagcagcgtggcaggcatcttccagctgagcat gtctgatggggccagcccacccctgcccatgtccctggctgtggacatcctaccatccgccatcgaggtgcagctgcgggcacccctggaggtgcccc aagctttggggcgctcctcactgagccagcagcagctccgggtggtttcagatcgggaggagccagaggcagcataccgcctcatccagggacccca gtatgggcatctcctggtgggcgggcggcccacctcggccttcagccaattccagatagaccagggcgaggtggtctttgccttcaccaacttctcctcc tctcatgaccacttcagagtcctggcactggctaggggtgtcaatgcatcagccgtagtgaacgtcactgtgagggctctgctgcatgtgtgggcaggtg ggccatggccccagggtgccaccctgcgcctggaccccaccgtcctagatgctggcgagctggccaaccgcacaggcagtgtgccgcgcttccgcc tcctggagggaccccggcatggccgcgtggtccgcgtgccccgagccaggacggagcccgggggcagccagctggtggagcagttcactcagca ggaccttgaggacgggaggctggggctggaggtgggcaggccagaggggagggcccccggccccgcaggtgacagtctcactctggagctgtgg gcacagggcgtcccgcctgctgtggcctccctggactttgccactgagccttacaatgctgcccggccctacagcgtggccctgctcagtgtccccgag gccgccggacggaagcagggaagccagagagcagcaccccacaggcgagccaggcccatggcatccagcctgagccgctgtggccaag ggaggcttcctgagcttccttgaggccaacatgttcagcgtcatcatccccatgtgcctggtacttctgctcctggcgctcatcctgcccctgctcttctacct ccgaaaacgcaacaagacgggcaagcatgacgtccaggtcctgactgccaagccccgcaacggcctggctggtgacaccgagacctttcgcaaggt ggagccaggccaggccatcccgctcacagctgtgcctggccaggggccccctccaggaggccagcctgacccagagctgctgcagttctgccgga cacccaaccctgccttaagaatggccagtactgggtgtgaggcctggcctgggcccagatgctgatcgggccagggacaggc SEQ ID No 16 . In another embodiment the recombinant nucleotide has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 16. In another embodiment an HMW MAA encoding nucleotide of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 16. In another embodiment the HMW MAA encoding nucleotide is a homologue of SEQ ID No 16. In another embodiment the HMW MAA encoding nucleotide is a variant of SEQ ID No 16. In another embodiment the HMW MAA encoding nucleotide is a fragment of SEQ ID No 16. In another embodiment the HMW MAA encoding nucleotide is an isoform of SEQ ID No 16. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein of methods and compositions of the present invention has an AA sequence set forth in a GenBank entry having an Accession Numbers selected from NM001897 and X96753. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is encoded by a nucleotide sequence set forth in one of the above GenBank entries. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein comprises a sequence set forth in one of the above GenBank entries. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is a homologue of a sequence set forth in one of the above GenBank entries. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is a variant of a sequence set forth in one of the above GenBank entries. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is a fragment of a sequence set forth in one of the above GenBank entries. In another embodiment the HMW MAA protein is an isoform of a sequence set forth in one of the above GenBank entries. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The HMW MAA fragment utilized in the present invention comprises in another embodiment AA 360 554. In another embodiment the fragment consists essentially of AA 360 554. In another embodiment the fragment consists of AA 360 554. In another embodiment the fragment comprises AA 701 1130. In another embodiment the fragment consists essentially of AA 701 1130. In another embodiment the fragment consists of AA 701 1130. In another embodiment the fragment comprises AA 2160 2258. In another embodiment the fragment consists essentially of 2160 2258. In another embodiment the fragment consists of 2160 2258. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In some embodiments a polypeptide of the present invention will comprise a fragment of a HMW MAA protein in any form or embodiment as described herein. In some embodiments any of the polypeptides of the present invention will consist of a fragment of a HMW MAA protein in any form or embodiment as described herein. In some embodiments of the compositions of this invention will consist essentially of a fragment of a HMW MAA protein in any form or embodiment as described herein. In some embodiments the term comprise refers to the inclusion of the indicated active agent such as the fragment of a HMW MAA protein or the fragment of a HMW MAA protein and a non HMW MAA polypeptide as well as inclusion of other active agents and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients emollients stabilizers etc. as are known in the pharmaceutical industry. In some embodiments the term consisting essentially of refers to a composition whose only active ingredient is the indicated active ingredient however other compounds may be included which are for stabilizing preserving etc. the formulation but are not involved directly in the therapeutic effect of the indicated active ingredient. In some embodiments the term consisting essentially of may refer to components which facilitate the release of the active ingredient. In some embodiments the term consisting refers to a composition which contains the active ingredient and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the HMW MAA fragment is approximately 98 AA in length. In another embodiment the length is approximately 194 AA. In another embodiment the length is approximately 430 AA.

In another embodiment the length is approximately 98 194 AA. In another embodiment the length is approximately 194 430 AA. In another embodiment the length is approximately 98 430 AA.

In another embodiment the length of the HMW MAA fragment of the present invention is at least 8 amino acids AA . In another embodiment the length is more than 8 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least 9 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 9 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least 10 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 10 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least 11 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 11 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least 12 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 12 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 14 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 14 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 16 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 16 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 18 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 18 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 20 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 20 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 25 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 25 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 30 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 30 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 40 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 40 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is at least about 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is more than 200 AA. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the length is about 8 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 9 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 10 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 11 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 12 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 15 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 8 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 20 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 30 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 50 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 40 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 70 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 50 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 100 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 70 500 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 100 150 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 100 200 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 100 250 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 100 300 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 100 400 AA. In another embodiment the length is about 100 500 AA. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

Each HMW MAA protein and each fragment thereof represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment a recombinant polypeptide of the methods and compositions of the present invention comprises a signal sequence. In another embodiment the signal sequence is from the organism used to construct the vaccine vector. In another embodiment the signal sequence is a LLO signal sequence. In another embodiment the signal sequence is an ActA signal sequence. In another embodiment the signal sequence is a Listerial signal sequence. In another embodiment the signal sequence is any other signal sequence known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The terms peptide and recombinant peptide refer in another embodiment to a peptide or polypeptide of any length. In another embodiment a peptide or recombinant peptide of the present invention has one of the lengths enumerated above for an HMW MAA fragment. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment the term peptide refers to native peptides either degradation products synthetically synthesized peptides or recombinant peptides and or peptidomimetics typically synthetically synthesized peptides such as peptoids and semipeptoids which are peptide analogs which may have for example modifications rendering the peptides more stable while in a body or more capable of penetrating into cells. Such modifications include but are not limited to N terminus modification C terminus modification peptide bond modification including but not limited to CH NH CH S CH S O O C NH CH O CH CH S C NH CH CH or CF CH backbone modifications and residue modification. Methods for preparing peptidomimetic compounds are well known in the art and are specified for example in Quantitative Drug Design C. A. Ramsden Gd. Chapter 17.2 F. Choplin Pergamon Press 1992 which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Further details in this respect are provided hereinunder.

Peptide bonds CO NH within the peptide may be substituted for example by N methylated bonds N CH CO ester bonds C R H C O O C R N ketomethylen bonds CO CH aza bonds NH N R CO wherein R is any alkyl e.g. methyl carba bonds CH NH hydroxyethylene bonds CH OH CH thioamide bonds CS NH olefinic double bonds CH CH retro amide bonds NH CO peptide derivatives N R CH CO wherein R is the normal side chain naturally presented on the carbon atom.

These modifications can occur at any of the bonds along the peptide chain and even at several 2 3 at the same time. Natural aromatic amino acids Trp Tyr and Phe may be substituted for synthetic non natural acid such as TIC naphthylelanine Nol ring methylated derivatives of Phe halogenated derivatives of Phe or o methyl Tyr.

In addition to the above the peptides of the present invention may also include one or more modified amino acids or one or more non amino acid monomers e.g. fatty acids complex carbohydrates etc .

In one embodiment the term amino acid or amino acids is understood to include the 20 naturally occurring amino acids those amino acids often modified post translationally in vivo including for example hydroxyproline phosphoserine and phosphothreonine and other unusual amino acids including but not limited to 2 aminoadipic acid hydroxylysine isodesmosine nor valine nor leucine and ornithine. Furthermore the term amino acid may include both D and L amino acids.

Peptides or proteins of this invention may be prepared by various techniques known in the art including phage display libraries Hoogenboom and Winter J. Mol. Biol. 227 381 1991 Marks et al. J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 1991 .

In one embodiment the present invention provides a vector comprising an oligonucleotide encoding a polypeptide of the present invention. In one embodiment the term oligonucleotide is interchangeable with the term nucleic acid and may refer to a molecule which may include but is not limited to prokaryotic sequences eukaryotic mRNA cDNA from eukaryotic mRNA genomic DNA sequences from eukaryotic e.g. mammalian DNA and even synthetic DNA sequences. The term also refers to sequences that include any of the known base analogs of DNA and RNA.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a vaccine comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention. In one embodiment the vaccine additionally comprises an adjuvant. In one embodiment the vaccine additionally comprises a cytokine chemokine or combination thereof. In one embodiment a vaccine is a composition which elicits an immune response to an antigen or polypeptide in the composition as a result of exposure to the composition. In another embodiment the vaccine or composition additionally comprises APCs which in one embodiment are autologous while in another embodiment they are allogeneic to the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a vaccine comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention and an adjuvant. In another embodiment the present invention provides a vaccine comprising a recombinant oligonucleotide of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an immunogenic composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the immunogenic composition of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises a recombinant vaccine vector encoding a recombinant peptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the immunogenic composition comprises a plasmid encoding a recombinant peptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the immunogenic composition comprises an adjuvant. In one embodiment a vector of the present invention may be administered as part of a vaccine composition. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The immunogenic composition utilized in methods and compositions of the present invention comprises in another embodiment a recombinant vaccine vector. In another embodiment the recombinant vaccine vector comprises a recombinant peptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the recombinant vaccine vector comprises an isolated nucleic acid of the present invention. In another embodiment the recombinant vaccine vector comprises an isolated nucleic acid encoding a recombinant peptide of the present invention. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant vaccine vector encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant vaccine vector comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the expression vector is a plasmid. Methods for constructing and utilizing recombinant vectors are well known in the art and are described for example in Sambrook et al. 2001 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York and in Brent et al. 2003 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York . Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the vector is an intracellular pathogen. In another embodiment the vector is derived from a cytosolic pathogen. In another embodiment the vector is derived from an intracellular pathogen.

In another embodiment an intracellular pathogen induces a predominantly cell mediated immune response. In another embodiment the vector is a strain. In another embodiment the vector is a BCG strain. In another embodiment the vector is a bacterial vector. In another embodiment dendritic cells transduced with a vector of the present invention may be administered to the subject to upregulate the subject s immune response which in one embodiment is accomplished by upregulating CTL activity.

In another embodiment the recombinant vaccine vector induces a predominantly Th1 type immune response.

An immunogenic composition of methods and compositions of the present invention comprises in another embodiment an adjuvant that favors a predominantly Th1 type immune response. In another embodiment the adjuvant favors a predominantly Th1 mediated immune response. In another embodiment the adjuvant favors a Th1 type immune response. In another embodiment the adjuvant favors a Th1 mediated immune response. In another embodiment the adjuvant favors a cell mediated immune response over an antibody mediated response. In another embodiment the adjuvant is any other type of adjuvant known in the art. In another embodiment the immunogenic composition induces the formation of a T cell immune response against the target protein. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the adjuvant is MPL. In another embodiment the adjuvant is QS21. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a TLR agonist. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a TLR4 agonist. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a TLR9 agonist. In another embodiment the adjuvant is RESIQUIMOD . In another embodiment the adjuvant is imiquimod. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a CpG oligonucleotide. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a cytokine or a nucleic acid encoding same. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a chemokine or a nucleic acid encoding same. In another embodiment the adjuvant is IL 12 or a nucleic acid encoding same. In another embodiment the adjuvant is IL 6 or a nucleic acid encoding same. In another embodiment the adjuvant is a lipopolysaccharide. In another embodiment the adjuvant is as described in Fundamental Immunology 5th ed. August 2003 William E. Paul Editor Lippincott Williams Wilkins Publishers Chapter 43 Vaccines GJV Nossal which is hereby incorporated by reference. In another embodiment the adjuvant is any other adjuvant known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment a predominantly Th1 type immune response refers to an immune response in which IFN gamma is secreted. In another embodiment it refers to an immune response in which tumor necrosis factors is secreted. In another embodiment it refers to an immune response in which IL 2 is secreted. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the vector is selected from sp. sp. BCG which embodiment is exemplified in Example 2 and . In another embodiment the fusion proteins are delivered by recombinant bacterial vectors modified to escape phagolysosomal fusion and live in the cytoplasm of the cell. In another embodiment the vector is a viral vector. In other embodiments the vector is selected from Vaccinia which embodiment is exemplified in Example 8 Avipox Adenovirus AAV Vaccinia virus NYVAC Modified vaccinia strain Ankara MVA Semliki Forest virus Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus herpes viruses and retroviruses. In another embodiment the vector is a naked DNA vector. In another embodiment the vector is any other vector known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an isolated nucleic acid encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In one embodiment the isolated nucleic acid comprises a sequence sharing at least 85 homology with a nucleic acid encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the isolated nucleic acid comprises a sequence sharing at least 90 homology with a nucleic acid encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the isolated nucleic acid comprises a sequence sharing at least 95 homology with a nucleic acid encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the isolated nucleic acid comprises a sequence sharing at least 97 homology with a nucleic acid encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the isolated nucleic acid comprises a sequence sharing at least 99 homology with a nucleic acid encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a vaccine comprising a recombinant nucleotide molecule of the present invention and an adjuvant. In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant vaccine vector comprising a recombinant nucleotide molecule of the present invention. In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant vaccine vector encoding a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant vaccine vector comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the expression vector is a plasmid. Methods for constructing and utilizing recombinant vectors are well known in the art and are described for example in Sambrook et al. 2001 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York and in Brent et al. 2003 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York . Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

Methods for preparing peptide vaccines are well known in the art and are described for example in EP1408048 United States Patent Application Number 20070154953 and OGASAWARA et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA Vol. 89 pp. 8995 8999 October 1992 . In one embodiment peptide evolution techniques are used to create an antigen with higher immunogenicity. Techniques for peptide evolution are well known in the art and are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 900.

In one embodiment a vaccine is a composition which elicits an immune response to an antigen or polypeptide in the composition as a result of exposure to the composition.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant nucleotide molecule of the present invention. In another embodiment the present invention provides a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polynucleotide of the present invention.

The recombinant strain of methods and compositions of the present invention is in another embodiment a recombinant strain. In another embodiment the strain is a recombinant strain. In another embodiment the strain is a recombinant strain. In another embodiment the strain is a recombinant strain. In another embodiment the strain is a recombinant strain. In another embodiment the strain is a recombinant strain. In another embodiment the strain is a recombinant strain of any other species known in the art. In one embodiment the strain is a strain comprising LLO while in another embodiment the strain is a strain comprising ActA while in another embodiment the strain is a strain comprising PEST like sequences.

In another embodiment the strain is attenuated by deletion of a gene. In another embodiment the strain is attenuated by deletion of more than 1 gene. In another embodiment the strain is attenuated by deletion or inactivation of a gene. In another embodiment the strain is attenuated by deletion or inactivation of more than 1 gene.

In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is hly. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is actA. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is plc A. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is plcB. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is mpl. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is inl A. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is inlB. In another embodiment the gene that is mutated is bsh.

In another embodiment the strain is an auxotrophic mutant. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in a gene encoding a vitamin synthesis gene. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in a gene encoding pantothenic acid synthase.

In another embodiment the strain is deficient in an AA metabolism enzyme. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in a D glutamic acid synthase gene. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in the dat gene. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in the dal gene. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in the dga gene. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in a gene involved in the synthesis of diaminopimelic acid. CysK. In another embodiment the gene is vitamin B12 independent methionine synthase. In another embodiment the gene is trpA. In another embodiment the gene is trpB. In another embodiment the gene is trpE. In another embodiment the gene is asnB. In another embodiment the gene is gltD. In another embodiment the gene is gltB. In another embodiment the gene is leuA. In another embodiment the gene is argG. In another embodiment the gene is thrC. In another embodiment the strain is deficient in one or more of the genes described hereinabove.

In another embodiment the strain is deficient in a synthase gene. In another embodiment the gene is an AA synthesis gene. In another embodiment the gene is folP. In another embodiment the gene is dihydrouridine synthase family protein. In another embodiment the gene is ispD. In another embodiment the gene is ispF. In another embodiment the gene is phosphoenolpyruvate synthase. In another embodiment the gene is hisF. In another embodiment the gene is hisH. In another embodiment the gene is fliI. In another embodiment the gene is ribosomal large subunit pseudouridine synthase. In another embodiment the gene is ispD. In another embodiment the gene is bifunctional GMP synthase glutamine amidotransferase protein. In another embodiment the gene is cobS. In another embodiment the gene is cobB. In another embodiment the gene is cbiD. In another embodiment the gene is uroporphyrin III C methyltransferase uroporphyrinogen III synthase. In another embodiment the gene is cobQ. In another embodiment the gene is uppS. In another embodiment the gene is truB. In another embodiment the gene is dxs. In another embodiment the gene is mvaS. In another embodiment the gene is dapA. In another embodiment the gene is ispG. In another embodiment the gene is folC. In another embodiment the gene is citrate synthase. In another embodiment the gene is argJ. In another embodiment the gene is 3 deoxy 7 phosphoheptulonate synthase. In another embodiment the gene is indole 3 glycerol phosphate synthase. In another embodiment the gene is anthranilate synthase glutamine amidotransferase component. In another embodiment the gene is menB. In another embodiment the gene is menaquinone specific isochorismate synthase. In another embodiment the gene is phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase I or II. In another embodiment the gene is phosphoribosylaminoimidazole succinocarboxamide synthase. In another embodiment the gene is carB. In another embodiment the gene is carA. In another embodiment the gene is thyA. In another embodiment the gene is mgsA. In another embodiment the gene is aroB. In another embodiment the gene is hepB. In another embodiment the gene is rluB. In another embodiment the gene is ilvB. In another embodiment the gene is ilvN. In another embodiment the gene is alsS. In another embodiment the gene is fabF. In another embodiment the gene is fabH. In another embodiment the gene is pseudouridine synthase. In another embodiment the gene is pyrG. In another embodiment the gene is truA. In another embodiment the gene is pabB. In another embodiment the gene is an atp synthase gene e.g. atpC atpD 2 aptG atpA 2 etc .

In another embodiment the gene is phoP. In another embodiment the gene is aroA. In another embodiment the gene is aroC. In another embodiment the gene is aroD. In another embodiment the gene is plcB.

In another embodiment the strain is deficient in a peptide transporter. In another embodiment the gene is ABC transporter ATP binding permease protein. In another embodiment the gene is oligopeptide ABC transporter oligopeptide binding protein. In another embodiment the gene is oligopeptide ABC transporter permease protein. In another embodiment the gene is zinc ABC transporter zinc binding protein. In another embodiment the gene is sugar ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is phosphate transporter. In another embodiment the gene is ZIP zinc transporter. In another embodiment the gene is drug resistance transporter of the EmrB QacA family. In another embodiment the gene is sulfate transporter. In another embodiment the gene is proton dependent oligopeptide transporter. In another embodiment the gene is magnesium transporter. In another embodiment the gene is formate nitrite transporter. In another embodiment the gene is spermidine putrescine ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is Na Pi cotransporter. In another embodiment the gene is sugar phosphate transporter. In another embodiment the gene is glutamine ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is major facilitator family transporter. In another embodiment the gene is glycine betaine L proline ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is molybdenum ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is techoic acid ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is cobalt ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is ammonium transporter. In another embodiment the gene is amino acid ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is cell division ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is manganese ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is iron compound ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is maltose maltodextrin ABC transporter. In another embodiment the gene is drug resistance transporter of the Bcr CflA family.

In another embodiment a recombinant strain of the present invention has been passaged through an animal host. In another embodiment the passaging maximizes efficacy of the strain as a vaccine vector. In another embodiment the passaging stabilizes the immunogenicity of the strain. In another embodiment the passaging stabilizes the virulence of the strain. In another embodiment the passaging increases the immunogenicity of the strain. In another embodiment the passaging increases the virulence of the strain. In another embodiment the passaging removes unstable sub strains of the strain. In another embodiment the passaging reduces the prevalence of unstable sub strains of the strain. In another embodiment the passaging attenuates the strain or in another embodiment makes the strain less virulent. Methods for passaging a recombinant strain through an animal host are known in the art and are described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 541 614. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the recombinant of methods and compositions of the present invention is stably transformed with a construct encoding an antigen or an LLO antigen fusion. In one embodiment the construct contains a polylinker to facilitate further subcloning. Several techniques for producing recombinant are known each technique represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the construct or heterologous gene is integrated into the Listerial chromosome using homologous recombination. Techniques for homologous recombination are well known in the art and are described for example in Frankel F R Hegde S Lieberman J and Y Paterson. Induction of a cell mediated immune response to HIV gag using as a live vaccine vector. J. Immunol. 155 4766 4774 1995 Mata M Yao Z Zubair A Syres K and Y Paterson Evaluation of a recombinant expressing an HIV protein that protects mice against viral challenge. Vaccine 19 1435 45 2001 Boyer J D Robinson T M Maciag P C Peng X Johnson R S Pavlakis G Lewis M G Shen A Siliciano R Brown C R Weiner D and Y Paterson. DNA prime boost induces a cellular immune response to SIV antigens in the Rhesus Macaque model that is capable of limited suppression of SIV239 viral replication. Virology. 333 88 101 2005. In another embodiment homologous recombination is performed as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 855 320. In another embodiment a temperature sensitive plasmid is used to select the recombinants. Each technique represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the construct or heterologous gene is integrated into the Listerial chromosome using transposon insertion. Techniques for transposon insertion are well known in the art and are described inter alia by Sun et al. Infection and Immunity 1990 58 3770 3778 in the construction of DP L967. Transposon mutagenesis has the advantage in another embodiment that a stable genomic insertion mutant can be formed. In another embodiment the position in the genome where the foreign gene has been inserted by transposon mutagenesis is unknown.

In another embodiment the construct or heterologous gene is integrated into the Listerial chromosome using phage integration sites Lauer P Chow M Y et al Construction characterization and use of two LM site specific phage integration vectors. J Bacteriol 2002 184 15 4177 86 . In another embodiment an integrase gene and attachment site of a bacteriophage e.g. U153 or PSA listeriophage is used to insert the heterologous gene into the corresponding attachment site which can be any appropriate site in the genome e.g. comK or the 3 end of the arg tRNA gene . In another embodiment endogenous prophages are cured from the attachment site utilized prior to integration of the construct or heterologous gene. In another embodiment this method results in single copy integrants. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the construct is carried by the strain on a plasmid. LM vectors that express antigen fusion proteins have been constructed via this technique. Lm GG E7 was made by complementing a prfA deletion mutant with a plasmid containing a copy of the prfA gene and a copy of the E7 gene fused to a form of the LLO hly gene truncated to eliminate the hemolytic activity of the enzyme as described herein. Functional LLO was maintained by the organism via the endogenous chromosomal copy of hly. In another embodiment the plasmid contains an antibiotic resistance gene. In another embodiment the plasmid contains a gene encoding a virulence factor that is lacking in the genome of the transformed strain. In another embodiment the virulence factor is prfA. In another embodiment the virulence factor is LLO. In another embodiment the virulence factor is ActA. In another embodiment the virulence factor is any of the genes enumerated above as targets for attenuation. In another embodiment the virulence factor is any other virulence factor known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment a recombinant peptide of the present invention is fused to a Listerial protein such as PI PLC or a construct encoding same. In another embodiment a signal sequence of a secreted Listerial protein such as hemolysin ActA or phospholipases is fused to the antigen encoding gene. In another embodiment a signal sequence of the recombinant vaccine vector is used. In another embodiment a signal sequence functional in the recombinant vaccine vector is used. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the construct is contained in the strain in an episomal fashion. In another embodiment the foreign antigen is expressed from a vector harbored by the recombinant strain.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti HMW MAA immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby inducing an anti HMW MAA immune response in a subject.

In another embodiment a subject is administered his her own allogeneic cells which in one embodiment elicit an immune response to an antigen. In another embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention result in the expression of stimulatory cytokines which in one embodiment are Th1 cytokines which in one embodiment is IFN gamma. In one embodiment the expression of stimulatory cytokines contributes to the anti tumor effect of the compositions and methods. In another embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention result in the expression of gamma delta T cells.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compositions and methods for inducing non specific anti tumor responses. In one embodiment immunization with a melanoma antigen such as HMW MAA peptide protects against a type of melanoma that does not express the antigen Example 4 .

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA expressing tumor. As provided herein vaccines of the present invention induce antigen specific immune response as shown by multiple lines of evidence e.g. inhibition of tumor growth tetramer staining measurement of numbers of tumor infiltrating CD8 T cells FACS and chromium release assay.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against a pericyte in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against a pericyte.

In another embodiment HER 2 neu is an EGF receptor family member that is over expressed in many human cancers breast 40 melanoma 30 pancreatic 20 ovarian 30 gastric cancer 19 . In another embodiment the present invention demonstrates that strains expressing HMW MAA fragments induce an immune response directed to HER 2 neu antigen. In another embodiment the present invention demonstrates that strains expressing HMW MAA fragments induce a cytotoxic T cell response directed to HER 2 neu antigen. In another embodiment the present invention demonstrates that strains expressing HMW MAA fragments induce an immune response directed to HER 2 neu antigen thus controlling tumor growth. In another embodiment the present invention demonstrates that strains expressing HMW MAA fragments induce an immune response directed to HER 2 neu antigen thus breaking tolerance to an endogenous tumor antigen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of delaying progression of a tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby delaying progression of a tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte of the tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. In one embodiment said tumor is a solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The data presented herein demonstrating the effectiveness of the Lm HMW MAA C vaccine in delaying the onset of mammary tumors in FVB N HER 2 neu transgenic mice .

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a vascularization of a solid tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby impeding a vascularization of a solid tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a vascularization of a breast tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby impeding a vascularization of a breast tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of delaying progression of a HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby delaying progression of a HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against the HER 2 neu expressing tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention

In another embodiment the methods of the present invention provide that a recombinant strain of the invention comprising a HMW MAA fragment induces anti HER 2 neu immune response. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention provide that a recombinant strain of the invention comprising a HMW MAA fragment C encoded by SEQ ID NO 23 induces an anti HER 2 neu immune response.

In another embodiment the methods of the present invention provide that a recombinant polypeptide comprising HMW MAA fragment induces anti HER 2 neu immune response. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention provide that a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment C encoded by SEQ ID NO 23 induces an anti HER 2 neu immune response.

In another embodiment the present invention provides that the immune response induced by a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment or a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment is effective at controlling tumor growth wherein the tumor expresses HER 2 neu antigen. In another embodiment the present invention provides that the immune response induced by a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment or a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment is effective at controlling breast tumor growth. In another embodiment the present invention provides that the immune response induced by a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment or a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment is effective at controlling breast cancer. In another embodiment the present invention provides that the immune response induced by a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment or a recombinant strain comprising a recombinant polypeptide comprising a HMW MAA fragment is effective at controlling a solid tumor growth wherein the solid tumor expresses HER 2 neu antigen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method that comprises a dual action 1 destroying the vasculature of a tumor and 2 inducing an anti HER 2 neu immune response. In another embodiment the present invention has an additive effect in view of drugs that control either one of the actions. In another embodiment the present invention has a synergistic effect compared to drugs that control either one of the actions. In another embodiment the present invention provides compositions and methods that are extremely effective in controlling the growth of tumors expressing HER 2 neu antigen due to the dual action as described hereinabove. In another embodiment the present invention provides compositions and methods for administering a recombinant vaccine strain expressing an LLO protein fused to a fragment of HMW MAA to a mammal resulting in impairment of tumor growth in another embodiment regression of existing tumors in another embodiment abrogation of tolerance to existing tumors and in another embodiment the death of tumor tissue which in one embodiment is a HER 2 neu expressing tumor. In another embodiment the present invention provides compositions and methods for delaying the onset of mammary tumors in populations pre disposed to developing mammary tumors due to genetic or environmental factors.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding the growth of a solid tumor expressing HER 2 neu antigen in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a solid tumor expressing HER 2 neu antigen in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against HER 2 neu antigen of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a solid tumor expressing HER 2 neu in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby treating a solid tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of lysing one or more tumor cells expressing HER 2 neu in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby lysing one or more tumor cells in a subject. In one embodiment tumor lysis is due to cytotoxic T lymphocytes tumor infiltrating lymphocytes or a combination thereof which in one embodiment are tumor specific.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti tumor immune response in a subject comprising the step of administering to a subject a composition of the invention. In another embodiment the composition of the present invention induces the release of antigens associated with cancer. In another embodiment the composition of the present invention induces the release of antigens associated with a tumor. In another embodiment the composition of the present invention induces the release of antigens associated with a breast tumor. In another embodiment killing the vasculature of the tumor caused the release of antigens associated with a tumor which in turn induced a tumor antigen specific immune response. In another embodiment killing the vasculature of the tumor caused the release of antigens associated with a tumor which in turn induced a multitude of tumor antigen specific immune responses. In another embodiment killing the vasculature of the tumor caused the release of HER 2 neu antigen which in turn induced a HER 2 neu antigen specific immune response.

In another embodiment the present invention provides that compositions comprising a HMW MAA fragment induce an immune response against other cancerous antigens. In another embodiment the present invention provides that compositions comprising a HMW MAA fragment induce an immune response against other cancerous antigens associated with tumors. In another embodiment the present invention provides that compositions comprising a HMW MAA fragment induce an immune response against other cancerous antigens associated with solid tumors. In another embodiment the present invention provides that compositions comprising a HMW MAA fragment induce an immune response against other breast cancer antigens. In another embodiment the present invention provides that compositions comprising a HMW MAA fragment induce an immune response against other cancerous antigens associated with a breast tumor.

In another embodiment the immune response to HMW MAA kills the vasculature of the tumor thus causing the death of the tumor and the release of antigens it contains which then are available to induce a tumor antigen specific immune response. In another embodiment the immune response to HMW MAA enhances the elimination of tumors by killing the vasculature of the tumor thus causing the death of the tumor and the release of antigens it contains which then are available to induce a tumor antigen specific immune response. In another embodiment the immune response to HMW MAA induces a secondary immune response to antigens released from the tumor. In another embodiment the immune response to HMW MAA induces the death of the tumor and subsequently the release of tumor specific antigens which in turn induce a tumor antigen specific immune. In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for epitope spreading of a tumor.

In one embodiment methods of the present invention are used to treat impede suppress inhibit or prevent any of the above described diseases disorders symptoms or side effects associated with allergy or asthma. In one embodiment treating refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or lessen the targeted pathologic condition or disorder as described hereinabove. Thus in one embodiment treating may include directly affecting or curing suppressing inhibiting preventing reducing the severity of delaying the onset of reducing symptoms associated with the disease disorder or condition or a combination thereof. Thus in one embodiment treating refers inter alia to delaying progression expediting remission inducing remission augmenting remission speeding recovery increasing efficacy of or decreasing resistance to alternative therapeutics or a combination thereof. In one embodiment preventing or impeding refers inter alia to delaying the onset of symptoms preventing relapse to a disease decreasing the number or frequency of relapse episodes increasing latency between symptomatic episodes or a combination thereof. In one embodiment suppressing or inhibiting refers inter alia to reducing the severity of symptoms reducing the severity of an acute episode reducing the number of symptoms reducing the incidence of disease related symptoms reducing the latency of symptoms ameliorating symptoms reducing secondary symptoms reducing secondary infections prolonging patient survival or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment symptoms are primary while in another embodiment symptoms are secondary. In one embodiment primary refers to a symptom that is a direct result of a particular disease or disorder while in one embodiment secondary refers to a symptom that is derived from or consequent to a primary cause. In one embodiment the compounds for use in the present invention treat primary or secondary symptoms or secondary complications related to cancer which in one embodiment is breast cancer. In another embodiment symptoms may be any manifestation of a disease or pathological condition.

As provided herein strains expressing HMW MAA inhibited growth of tumors that did not express HMW MAA. These findings show that anti HMW MAA immune responses inhibit and reverse vascularization of and thus inhibit growth of solid tumors. Anti HMW MAA vaccines of the present invention were able to exert these effects in spite of the incomplete identity 80 between HMW MAA and its mouse homolog namely mouse chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan AN2 . According to this embodiment anti HMW MAA vaccines of the present invention are efficacious for vaccination against any solid tumor expressing HER 2 neu antigen regardless of its expression of HMW MAA. In another embodiment anti HMW MAA vaccines of the present invention spread the immune response from HMW MAA to HER 2 neu antigen. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a vascularization of a solid tumor followed by an anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby impeding a vascularization of a solid tumor followed by an anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against HER 2 neu antigen. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The solid tumor that is the target of methods and compositions of the present invention is in another embodiment a melanoma. In another embodiment the tumor is a sarcoma. In another embodiment the tumor is a carcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is a mesothelioma e.g. malignant mesothelioma . In another embodiment the tumor is a glioma. In another embodiment the tumor is a germ cell tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a choriocarcinoma.

In another embodiment the tumor is pancreatic cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is ovarian cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is gastric cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a carcinomatous lesion of the pancreas. In another embodiment the tumor is pulmonary adenocarcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is colorectal adenocarcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is pulmonary squamous adenocarcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is gastric adenocarcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is an ovarian surface epithelial neoplasm e.g. a benign proliferative or malignant variety thereof . In another embodiment the tumor is an oral squamous cell carcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is non small cell lung carcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is an endometrial carcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is a bladder cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a head and neck cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a prostate carcinoma.

In another embodiment the tumoris anon small cell lung cancer NSCLC . In another embodiment the tumor is a Wilms tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a desmoplastic small round cell tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a colon cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a lung cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is an ovarian cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a uterine cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a thyroid cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a hepatocellular carcinoma. In another embodiment the tumor is a thyroid cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a liver cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a renal cancer. In another embodiment the tumor is a kaposis. In another embodiment the tumor is a sarcoma. In another embodiment the tumor is another carcinoma or sarcoma. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the tumor is a breast tumor. In one embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention are used to treat adenocarcinoma which in one embodiment develops in glandular tissue. In one embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention are used to treat ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS which in one embodiment develops in the milk ducts and in another embodiment is an early form of breast cancer.

In another embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention are used to treat invasive ductal carcinoma IDC which in one embodiment is the most common type of breast cancer develops from DCIS spreads through the duct walls and invades the breast tissue. In another embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention are used to treat invasive lobular carcinoma which in one embodiment originates in the milk glands and accounts for 10 15 of invasive breast cancers. Additional types of breast cancer that may be treated using compositions and methods of the present invention include Inflammatory where in one embodiment breast tissue is warm and appears red tends to spread quickly Medullary carcinoma which in one embodiment originates in central breast tissue Mucinous carcinoma where in one embodiment is invasive usually occurs in postmenopausal women Paget s disease of the nipple which in one embodiment originates in the milk ducts and spreads to the skin of the nipples or areola Phyllodes tumor which in one embodiment is characterized by a tumor with a leaf like appearance that extends into the ducts rarely metastasizes and Tubular carcinoma which in one embodiment is a small tumor that is often undetectable by palpation . Compositions and methods of the present invention may also be used to treat sarcomas in one embodiment cancer of the connective tissue and lymphomas in one embodiment cancer of the lymph tissue that develop in breast tissue.

In another embodiment the compositions and methods of the present invention are used to treat breast related conditions in men which in one embodiment is Gynecomastia Lobular breast cancer LBC and Infiltrating or invasive ductal carcinoma IDC which in one embodiment is the most common form of male breast cancer and accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all men breast cancer diagnoses. In one embodiment IDC originates in the duct and breaks into or invades the surrounding fatty tissue. In one embodiment IDC may be contained only within the breast or in another embodiment it can metasticize spread to other parts of the body.

In one embodiment this invention provides compositions and methods for preventing cancer in populations that are predisposed to the cancer or in populations that are at high risk for the cancer which in one embodiment may be a population of women with brca1 or brca2 mutations which population in one embodiment is susceptible to breast cancer.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA expressing tumor. As provided herein strains expressing HMW MAA elicited anti HMW MAA immune responses and inhibited growth of HMW MAA expressing of tumors. In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA and HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA and HER 2 neu expressing tumor. As provided herein strains expressing HMW MAA elicit anti HMW MAA and anti HER 2 neu immune responses and inhibit growth of HMW MAA expressing of tumors.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain expressing HMW MAA fragment which in one embodiment is encoded by SEQ ID NO 23 and a non HMW MAA peptide which in one embodiment enhances the immunogenicity of the HMW MAA fragment and in another embodiment is LLO ActA PEST sequence or an effective portion thereof thereby inducing an anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject. In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide or vector of the present invention.

The HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor that is the target of methods and compositions of the present invention is in another embodiment a basal cell carcinoma. In another embodiment the HMW MAA expressing tumor is a tumor of neural crest origin. In another embodiment the HMW MAA expressing tumor is an astrocytoma. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is a glioma. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is a neuroblastoma. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is a sarcoma. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is childhood leukemia. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is a lobular breast carcinoma lesion. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is a melanoma. In another embodiment the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor is any other HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against a pericyte and or HER 2 neu antigen in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against a pericyte and or HER 2 neu antigen. As provided herein strains expressing HMW MAA inhibited growth of solid tumors expressing HER 2 neu antigen even those that did not express HMW MAA. These findings demonstrate inhibition of vascularization via induction of immune responses against tumor vascular associated pericytes.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention thereby treating a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating abreast cancer in a subject whereby said breast cancer is associated with expression of HER 2 neu antigen in said subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant or recombinant polypeptide or recombinant vector of the present invention whereby said subject mounts an immune response against said HER 2 neu expressing tumor thereby treating a breast cancer in a subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting a breast cancer in a subject whereby said breast cancer is associated with expression of HER 2 neu antigen in said subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant or recombinant polypeptide or recombinant vector of the present invention whereby said subject mounts an immune response against said HER 2 neu expressing tumor thereby inhibiting a breast cancer in a subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of suppressing a breast cancer in a subject whereby said breast cancer is associated with expression of HER 2 neu antigen in said subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant or recombinant polypeptide or recombinant vector of the present invention whereby said subject mounts an immune response against said HER 2 neu expressing tumor thereby suppressing a breast cancer in a subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of delaying the onset reducing the incidence increasing the latency to relapse decreasing the latency to remission decreasing the severity improving the symptoms of a breast cancer in a subject whereby said breast cancer is associated with expression of HER 2 neu antigen in said subject said method comprising administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant or recombinant polypeptide or recombinant vector of the present invention whereby said subject mounts an immune response against said HER 2 neu expressing tumor thereby delaying the onset reducing the incidence increasing the latency to relapse decreasing the latency to remission decreasing the severity improving the symptoms of a breast cancer in a subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti tumor immune response in a subject comprising the step of administering to said subject a composition comprising a recombinant or recombinant polypeptide or recombinant vector of the present invention whereby said composition kills the vasculature of said tumor and induces the release of a tumor antigen thereby inducing an anti tumor immune response. In one embodiment said tumor is a breast tumor which in one embodiment is associated with breast cancer.

The recombinant strain of the present invention utilized in methods of the present invention comprises in another embodiment a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the recombinant strain comprises a recombinant nucleotide molecule of the present invention. In another embodiment the recombinant strain is any recombinant strain described or enumerated above. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response in a subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against an HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing an immune response against a pericyte and or HER 2 neu antigen in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby inducing an immune response against a pericyte and or HER 2 neu antigen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a solid tumor expressing HER 2 neu in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a solid tumor expressing HER 2 neu in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte and or HER 2 neu of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a solid tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby treating a solid tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte and or HER 2 neu of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a vascularization of a solid tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby impeding a vascularization of a solid tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against a pericyte of the solid tumor. In another embodiment the pericyte is in a vasculature of the solid tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby impeding a growth and or delaying progression of a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention thereby treating a HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor in a subject. In another embodiment the subject mounts an immune response against the HMW MAA and or HER 2 neu expressing tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In other embodiments the recombinant polypeptide of any of the methods described above have any of the characteristics of a recombinant polypeptide of compositions of the present invention. Each characteristic represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment of methods of the present invention a vaccine comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention is administered. In another embodiment an immunogenic composition comprising a recombinant strain of the present invention is administered. In another embodiment a vaccine comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention is administered. In another embodiment an immunogenic composition comprising a recombinant polypeptide of the present invention is administered. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the target pericyte of methods and compositions of the present invention is an activated pericyte. In another embodiment the target pericyte is any other type of pericyte known in the art. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment a method or immunogenic composition of methods and compositions of the present invention induces a cell mediated immune response. In another embodiment the immunogenic composition induces a predominantly cell mediated immune response. In another embodiment the immunogenic composition induces a predominantly Th1 type immune response. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the immune response elicited by methods of the present invention is a cell mediated immune response. In another embodiment the immune response is a T cell mediated immune response. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The T cell mediated immune response induced by methods and compositions of the present invention comprises in another embodiment a CTL. In another embodiment the T cell involved in the T cell mediated immune response is a CTL. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the T cell mediated immune response comprises a T helper cell. In another embodiment the T cell involved in the T cell mediated immune response is a T helper cell. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment of methods of the present invention the subject is immunized with an immunogenic composition vector or recombinant peptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the subject is contacted with the immunogenic composition vector or recombinant peptide. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting adhesion of a cancer cell to the extracellular matrix comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response by a method of the present invention thereby inhibiting adhesion of a cancer cell to the extracellular matrix. In another embodiment the cancer cell is a melanoma cell. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting metastasis of a tumor comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response by a method of the present invention thereby inhibiting metastasis of a tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a melanoma tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a breast tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a NT 2 tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting migration of a cancer cell comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response by a method of the present invention thereby inhibiting migration of a cancer cell. In another embodiment the cancer cell is a melanoma cell. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting proliferation of cells in a tumor comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response by a method of the present invention thereby inhibiting proliferation of cells in a tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a melanoma tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of reducing invasiveness of a tumor comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response by a method of the present invention thereby reducing invasiveness of a tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a melanoma tumor. In another embodiment anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune responses inhibit formation of HMW MAA MT3 MMP membrane type metalloproteinases complexes. In another embodiment inhibition of formation of these complexes inhibits degradation of type I collagen by melanoma cells. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting conversion of plasminogen into plasmin in the vicinity of a tumor comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA and or anti HER 2 neu immune response by a method of the present invention thereby inhibiting conversion of plasminogen into plasmin in the vicinity of a tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a melanoma tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a breast tumor. In another embodiment inhibiting plasmin release inhibits in turn degradation of the extracellular matrix ECM . Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting sequestration of angiostatin in the vicinity of a tumor comprising inducing an anti HMW MAA immune response by a method of the present invention thereby inhibiting sequestration of angiostatin in the vicinity of a tumor. In another embodiment the tumor is a melanoma tumor. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment a peptide of the present invention is homologous to a peptide enumerated herein. The terms homology homologous etc when in reference to any protein or peptide refer in one embodiment to a percentage of amino acid residues in the candidate sequence that are identical with the residues of a corresponding native polypeptide after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps if necessary to achieve the maximum percent homology and not considering any conservative substitutions as part of the sequence identity. Methods and computer programs for the alignment are well known in the art.

Homology is in another embodiment determined by computer algorithm for sequence alignment by methods well described in the art. For example computer algorithm analysis of nucleic acid sequence homology can include the utilization of any number of software packages available such as for example the BLAST DOMAIN BEAUTY BLAST Enhanced Alignment Utility GENPEPT and TREMBL packages.

In another embodiment homology or homologous refers to a sequence sharing greater than 70 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 72 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 75 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 78 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 80 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 82 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 83 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 85 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 87 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 88 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 90 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 92 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 93 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 95 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 96 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 97 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 98 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to a sequence sharing greater than 99 identity with a second sequence. In another embodiment homology refers to identity to one of SEQ ID No 1 14 of 100 identity with a second sequence. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment homology is determined via determination of candidate sequence hybridization methods of which are well described in the art See for example Nucleic Acid Hybridization Hames B. D. and Higgins S. J. Eds. 1985 Sambrook et al. 2001 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Press N.Y. and Ausubel et al. 1989 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Green Publishing Associates and Wiley Interscience N.Y . In other embodiments methods of hybridization are carried out under moderate to stringent conditions to the complement of a DNA encoding a native caspase peptide. Hybridization conditions being for example overnight incubation at 42 C. in a solution comprising 10 20 formamide 5 SSC 150 mM NaCl 15 mM trisodium citrate 50 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.6 5 Denhardt s solution 10 dextran sulfate and 20 g ml denatured sheared salmon sperm DNA.

Protein and or peptide homology for any AA sequence listed herein is determined in another embodiment by methods well described in the art including immunoblot analysis or via computer algorithm analysis of AA sequences utilizing any of a number of software packages available via established methods. Some of these packages include the FASTA BLAST MPsrch or Scanps packages and in another embodiment employ the use of the Smith and Waterman algorithms and or global local or BLOCKS alignments for analysis. Each method of determining homology represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment of the present invention nucleic acids or nucleotide refers to a string of at least two base sugar phosphate combinations. The term includes in one embodiment DNA and RNA. Nucleotides refers in one embodiment to the monomeric units of nucleic acid polymers. RNA is in one embodiment in the form of a tRNA transfer RNA snRNA small nuclear RNA rRNA ribosomal RNA mRNA messenger RNA anti sense RNA small inhibitory RNA siRNA micro RNA miRNA and ribozymes. The use of siRNA and miRNA has been described Caudy A A et al Genes Devel 16 2491 96 and references cited therein . DNA can be in other embodiments in form of plasmid DNA viral DNA linear DNA or chromosomal DNA or derivatives of these groups. In addition these forms of DNA and RNA can be single double triple or quadruple stranded. The term also includes in another embodiment artificial nucleic acids that contain other types of backbones but the same bases. In one embodiment the artificial nucleic acid is a PNA peptide nucleic acid . PNA contain peptide backbones and nucleotide bases and are able to bind in one embodiment to both DNA and RNA molecules. In another embodiment the nucleotide is oxetane modified. In another embodiment the nucleotide is modified by replacement of one or more phosphodiester bonds with a phosphorothioate bond. In another embodiment the artificial nucleic acid contains any other variant of the phosphate backbone of native nucleic acids known in the art. The use of phosphothiorate nucleic acids and PNA are known to those skilled in the art and are described in for example Neilsen P E Curr Opin Struct Biol 9 353 57 and Raz N K et al Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 297 1075 84. The production and use of nucleic acids is known to those skilled in art and is described for example in Molecular Cloning 2001 Sambrook and Russell eds. and Methods in Enzymology Methods for molecular cloning in eukaryotic cells 2003 Purchio and G. C. Fareed. Each nucleic acid derivative represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a kit comprising a compound or composition utilized in performing a method of the present invention. In another embodiment the present invention provides a kit comprising a composition tool or instrument of the present invention. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the data presented herein demonstrate the safety of the Lm HMW MAA vaccine . In another embodiment the data presented herein demonstrate the lack of toxicity of the Lm HMW MAA vaccine described herein . In another embodiment the data presented herein demonstrate the lack of teratogenicity of the Lm HMW MAA vaccine described herein .

In one embodiment a composition of the present invention leads to an infiltration of CD8 T cells around blood vessels and in the stroma of tumors from immunized mice. In one embodiment the presence of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes correlates with clinical responses in cancer immunotherapy. As described hereinbelow despite their effect on vasculature compositions of the present invention do not lead to toxicity such as wound healing pregnancy or fertility problems associated with blood vessel damage in mice immunized with Lm HMW MAA C.

In another embodiment compositions of the present invention may be used in combination with other therapies for treating tumors. In another embodiment compositions of the present invention may be used in combination with metronomic therapies to reduce tumor angiogenesis. In one embodiment compositions of the present invention may be used in combination with an inhibitor of PDGFR signaling which in one embodiment reduces pericyte counts or in another embodiment with a VEGFR inhibitor. In one embodiment targeting pericytes in the tumor stroma might cause a certain degree of vasculitis that could promote the infiltration of the tumor by specific T cells to tumor associated antigens and improve the efficacy of cancer immunotherapies. In another embodiment compositions of the present invention may be used in combination with active antibody mediated therapies which in one embodiment target HMW MAA.

In one embodiment a vaccine is a composition that induces an immune response in a host. In one embodiment the immune response is to a particular antigen or to a particular epitope on the antigen. In one embodiment the vaccine may be a peptide vaccine in another embodiment a DNA vaccine. In another embodiment the vaccine may be contained within and in another embodiment delivered by a cell which in one embodiment is a bacterial cell which in one embodiment is a . In one embodiment a vaccine may prevent a subject from contracting or developing a disease or condition wherein in another embodiment a vaccine may be therapeutic to a subject having a disease or condition. Therapeutic and prophylactic effects of the compositions of the present invention are described hereinabove. In one embodiment a vaccine of the present invention comprises a composition of the present invention and an adjuvant cytokine chemokine or combination thereof.

 Pharmaceutical composition refers in another embodiment to a therapeutically effective amount of the active ingredient i.e. the recombinant peptide or vector comprising or encoding same together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. A therapeutically effective amount refers in another embodiment to that amount which provides a therapeutic effect for a given condition and administration regimen.

The pharmaceutical compositions containing the active ingredient can be in another embodiment administered to a subject by any method known to a person skilled in the art such as parenterally transmucosally transdermally intramuscularly intravenously intra dermally subcutaneously intra peritonealy intra ventricularly intra cranially intra vaginally or intra tumorally.

In another embodiment of methods and compositions of the present invention the pharmaceutical compositions are administered orally and are thus formulated in a form suitable for oral administration i.e. as a solid or a liquid preparation. Suitable solid oral formulations include tablets capsules pills granules pellets and the like. Suitable liquid oral formulations include solutions suspensions dispersions emulsions oils and the like. In another embodiment of the present invention the active ingredient is formulated in a capsule. In accordance with this embodiment the compositions of the present invention comprise in addition to the active compound and the inert carrier or diluent a hard gelating capsule.

In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered by intravenous intra arterial or intra muscular injection of a liquid preparation. Suitable liquid formulations include solutions suspensions dispersions emulsions oils and the like. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered intravenously and are thus formulated in a form suitable for intravenous administration. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered intra arterially and are thus formulated in a form suitable for intra arterial administration. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered intramuscularly and are thus formulated in a form suitable for intramuscular administration.

In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered topically to body surfaces and are thus formulated in a form suitable for topical administration. Suitable topical formulations include gels ointments creams lotions drops and the like. For topical administration the recombinant peptide or vector is prepared and applied as a solution suspension or emulsion in a physiologically acceptable diluent with or without a pharmaceutical carrier.

In other embodiments carriers or diluents used in methods of the present invention include but are not limited to a gum a starch e.g. corn starch pregeletanized starch a sugar e.g. lactose mannitol sucrose dextrose a cellulosic material e.g. microcrystalline cellulose an acrylate e.g. polymethylacrylate calcium carbonate magnesium oxide talc or mixtures thereof.

In other embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for liquid formulations are aqueous or non aqueous solutions suspensions emulsions or oils. Examples of non aqueous solvents are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media. Examples of oils are those of animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil olive oil sunflower oil fish liver oil another marine oil or a lipid from milk or eggs.

In another embodiment parenteral vehicles for subcutaneous intravenous intraarterial or intramuscular injection include sodium chloride solution Ringer s dextrose dextrose and sodium chloride lactated Ringer s and fixed oils. Intravenous vehicles include fluid and nutrient replenishers electrolyte replenishers such as those based on Ringer s dextrose and the like. Examples are sterile liquids such as water and oils with or without the addition of a surfactant and other pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants. In general water saline aqueous dextrose and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycols or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Examples of oils are those of animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil olive oil sunflower oil fish liver oil another marine oil or a lipid from milk or eggs.

In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions provided herein are controlled release compositions i.e. compositions in which the active ingredient is released over a period of time after administration. Controlled or sustained release compositions include formulation in lipophilic depots e.g. fatty acids waxes oils . In another embodiment the composition is an immediate release composition i.e. a composition in which all the active ingredient is released immediately after administration.

Mice. Female C57BL 6 BALB c and FVB N mice were purchased from Charles River Laboratories. A breeder pair of HLA A2 Kwas generously provided by Dr. L. Sherman The Scripps Research Institute La Jolla Calif. . These mice were maintained and bred in the animal core facility at the University of Pennsylvania. The FVB N HER 2 neu transgenic mice Muller Cancer Metastasis Rev 1991 10 217 27 were housed and bred at the Veterans Administration Hospital affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania. Mice were six to eight weeks old at the start of the experiments which were done in accordance with regulations by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of the University of Pennsylvania.

Antibodies. The anti HMW MAA mAb VT80.12 has been previously described Chen Z J Ferrone S. Comparison of the binding parameters to melanoma cells of antihuman high molecular weight melanoma associated antigen HMW MAA monoclonal antibodies mAb and syngeneic anti anti idiotypic anti anti id mAb. Ann NY Acad Sci 1993 690 398 401 . Goat anti mouse IgG PE anti CD8b.2 FITC anti IFN PE anti mouse CD31 FITC anti mouse CD8 PE rat IgG2a and rat IgG2b isotype controls were purchased from BD Biosciences. Anti Smooth Muscle SMA Cy3 and anti FLAG M2 monoclonal antibodies were purchased from Sigma. Secondary anti rabbit Alexa Fluor 488 was purchased from Invitrogen and anti rat NG2 from Chemicon. The anti CD4 mAb GK1.5 anti CD8 mAb 2.43 and anti CD25 mAb PC61 were purified using protein G sepharose columns Amersham Biosciences .

Flow cytometry. Cells were harvested washed in FACS buffer PBS 2 FBS and Fc receptors blocked with 2.4G2 hybridoma supernatant. After washing cells were resuspended in 50 l of FACS buffer containing the appropriate antibodies and incubated at 4 C. in the dark for 30 minutes. Cells were washed twice and when necessary incubated with a secondary antibody. Otherwise cells were fixed in 2 formaldehyde and analyzed using a FACS Calibur cytometer and CellQuest Pro software BD Biosciences .

Cell lines. Cell culture media and supplements were purchased from Gibco Invitrogen . B16F10 cells were maintained in DMEM and RENCA and J774 cells in RPMI 1640. Media was supplemented with 10 FBS 10 mM HEPES buffer 2 mM L glutamine 0.1 mM non essential amino acids 1 mM sodium pyruvate and 50 g ml of gentamicin. The NT 2 cell line was maintained in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 20 FBS 10 mM HEPES buffer 2 mM L glutamine 0.1 mM non essential amino acids 1 mM sodium pyruvate 20 g ml of insulin 100 U ml of penicillin and 100 g ml of streptomycin. All cell cultures were kept at 37 C. and 5 CO. B16F10 cells were transfected with a pcDNA3.1 plasmid containing the full length HMW MAA cDNA sequence Peng L Ko E Luo W Wang X Shrikant P A Ferrone S. CD4 dependent potentiation of a high molecular weight melanoma associated antigen specific CTL response elicited in HLA A2 Kb transgenic mice. J Immunol 2006 176 2307 15 using lipofectamine 2000 Invitrogen as recommended by the manufacturer. Stable transfected cells were maintained in medium supplemented with 1 mg ml of G418 and single clones were isolated using limiting dilution. Individual clones were screened for HMW MAA expression by flow cytometry using the monoclonal antibody VT80.12.

Construction of Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccine. A fragment corresponding to HMW MAA residues 2160 to 2258 was amplified by PCR using the primers 5 TGGCCACTGAGCCTTACAATGCTGCC 3 forward primer XhoI site underlined and 5 TTACTACTTATCGTCGTCATCCTTGTAATCCTGGACGTCATGCTTGCCCG 3 reverse primer XmaI site underlined stop codon in bold and Flag sequence in italics . The PCR product was ligated into pCR2.1 TOPO plasmid Invitrogen confirmed by sequencing and subsequently excised by double digestion with XhoI and XmaI New England Biolabs . The fragment was ligated into a pGG55 based plasmid downstream and fused to a gene encoding for the first 441 residues of the LLO protein whose expression is driven by the hly promoter. The construction of the pGG55 has been described in details elsewhere Gunn G R Zubair A Peters C Pan Z K Wu T C Paterson Y. Two vaccine vectors that express different molecular forms of human papilloma virus 16 HPV 16 E7 induce qualitatively different T cell immunity that correlates with their ability to induce regression of established tumors immortalized by HPV 16. J Immunol 2001 167 6471 9 . The resultant plasmid was electroporated into the PrfA defective Lm strain XFL 7 kindly provided by Hao Shen University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pa. which is derived from the Lm strain 10403S. Positive clones were selected on Brain Heart Infusion BHI Difco plates supplemented with 34 g ml of chloramphenicol and 250 g ml of streptomycin. The resultant strain was named Lm LLO HMW MAA C which was subsequently passaged twice in vivo as previously described Peters C Paterson Y. Enhancing the immunogenicity of bioengineered by passaging through live animal hosts. Vaccine 2003 21 1187 94.

Effect of Lm LLO HMW MAA C on tumor growth. Mice were given s.c. 2 10of B16F10 HMW MAA B16F10 or RENCA tumor cells on the flank in 0.2 ml of PBS. On day 3 after tumor inoculation mice were immunized i.p. with 2.5 10CFU of Lm LLO HMW MAA C. This dose was determined as one tenth of the minimum dose observed to have adverse effects on mice and it was used in all experiments. In the NT 2 model mice were given 1 10tumor cells and immunized 7 days later with Lm LLO HMW MAA C. The FVB N HER 2 neu transgenic mice received the first dose of vaccine when 6 8 weeks old. Immunizations were repeated weekly totaling three doses of the vaccine in all experiments. In the control groups mice received either PBS or an equivalent dose of an irrelevant Lm vaccine Lm LLO E7 or Lm LLO NY ESO 1 . Tumors were measured every 2 3 days with calipers and the shortest and longest surface diameters were recorded for each individual tumor. Mice were sacrificed when they developed open wounds or tumors reached 20 mm in diameter. Tumor free surviving mice challenged with B16F10 HMW MAA were rechallenged in the opposite flank with the same cell line 7 weeks after the first inoculation.

In vivo cell depletions. For CD4 and CD8 in vivo depletions 500 g of GK1.5 and 2.43 antibodies respectively were given i.p. on days 1 2 6 and 9. The control groups received either an anti p galactosidase antibody or were left untreated. For CD25 depletion 500 g of PC61 was given i.p. on days 0 and 2. These antibodies were tested and confirmed to induce depletion of the target cells by flow cytometry data not shown .

Transfer of anti tumor immunity Winn assay . C57BL 6 mice were injected twice at a one week interval with Lm HMW MAA C. Control mice were left untreated. One week after the last immunization mice were sacrificed and the spleens harvested. CD8.sup. T cells were enriched from the splenocyte suspension by negative magnetic selection DYNAL . Mouse CD8 Cell Negative Isolation Kit Invitrogen and comprised 85 of the total cells as assessed by flow cytometry. CD8T cells either from naive or Lm HMW MAA C immunized mice were mixed in PBS with B16F10 HMW MAA at a ratio of 10 1 and 0.2 ml of the cell suspension containing 2 10tumor cells and 2 10CD8T cells was inoculated s.c. on the flank of naive mice. Tumors were measured every 2 days with a caliper and the size recorded as the mean tumor diameter.

Synthetic peptide. The HLA A2 binding synthetic peptide LILPLLFYL SEQ ID NO 45 which corresponds to HMW MAA residues 2238 to 2246 was purchased from EZBiolab.

Murine IFN assays to detect antigen specific CD8 T cells. Spleens from immunized mice were harvested one week after last immunization. After lysing red blood cells splenocytes were stimulated with 1 M of the HMW MAApeptide and IFN production detected by either ELISpot or intracellular cytokine staining. ELISpots were performed according to the manufacturer instructions Mabtech and spot forming cells SFC counted using a dissecting microscope. Intracellular cytokine staining for IFN was done as previously described Peters C Paterson Y. Enhancing the immunogenicity of bioengineered by passaging through live animal hosts. Vaccine 2003 21 1187 94 . Data was collected using a FACS Calibur cytometer and analyzed using CellQuest Pro software. Cells were gated on CD8and analyzed for intracellular IFN .

Immunofluorescence. On day 84 post tumor inoculation mice were sacrificed and the NT 2 tumors were surgically excised cryopreserved in OCT freezing medium and cryosectioned for 8 10 micron thick sections. For immunofluorescence samples were thawed and fixed using 4 formalin. After blocking 2.4G2 conditioned medium 10 FBS 5 normal rat serum and normal mouse serum sections were stained with primary antibodies in blocking solution in a humidified chamber at 37 C. for 1 hour. Samples were stained with secondary antibody following the same procedure as for primary staining. DAPI Invitrogen staining was performed according to manufacturer instructions. Intracellular stains SMA were done in PBS 0.1 tween 1 BSA solution. Slides were cover slipped using Biomeda mounting solution Biomeda with anti fading agents set for 24 hours and kept at 4 C. until imaging using Spot Image Software 2006 and BX51 series Olympus fluorescent microscope. Images were merged using Spot Image Software and quantitation was performed after an ROI was gated using Image Pro Software 2006 . All images are a merged series of three different channels captured for same exposure time.

Evaluation of possible toxicity associated with inhibition of angiogenesis. Six to eight week old FVB N female mice were immunized three consecutive times weekly with either a control Lm vaccine or Lm LLO HMWMAA C. On the fourth week safety studies were conducted. For pregnancy and fertility 5 mice per group were allowed to mate with individual housed males. Coitus was monitored and confirmed by the presence of a vaginal plug. Time to gestation pup birth weight and total litter size were measured. The wound healing assay utilized in this study was done according to previously described methods used in antiangiogenesis studies Niethammer A G Xiang R Becker J C et al. A DNA vaccine against VEGF receptor 2 prevents effective angiogenesis and inhibits tumor growth. Nat Med 2002 8 1369 75 . Briefly mice were anesthetized hair removed and skin cleaned with an aseptic wipe. Two circular 3 mm in diameter wounds were punched from the skin using a sterile skin biopsy tool Acuderm . Wounds were not treated and no infection was observed. Average time to wound closure was monitored and considered complete when a scar was formed without any visible scab left.

Statistical analysis. Data were analyzed using either the non parametric Mann Whitney test or the parametric t test when appropriated. The log rank test was used for survival data. All statistical analyses were done with the SPSS15.0 software. Statistical significance was based on a value of P 0.05.

pGG 55 the precursor of the LLO HMW MAA constructs was created from pAM401 a shuttle vector able to replicate in both gram negative and gram positive bacteria Wirth R et al J Bacteriol 165 831 1986 . pAM401 contains a gram positive chloramphenicol resistance gene and gram negative tetracycline resistance determinant. In pGG 55 the hly promoter drives the expression of the first 441 AA of the hly gene product lacking the hemolytic C terminus having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No 3 which is joined by the XhoI site to the E7 gene yielding a hly E7 fusion gene that is transcribed and secreted as LLO E7.

Generation of pGG 55 A fusion of a listeriolysin fragment to E7 LLO E7 and the pluripotential transcription factor prfA were subcloned in pAM401 as follows The DNA fragment encoding the first 420 AA of LLO and its promoter and upstream regulatory sequences was PCR amplified with LM genomic DNA used as a template and ligated into pUC19. PCR primers used were 5 GGCCCGGGCCCCCTCCTTTGAT 3 SEQ ID No 17 and 5 GGTCTAGATCATAATTTACTTCATCC 3 SEQ ID No 18 . E7 was amplified by PCR using the primers 5 GGCATGGAGATACACC 3 SEQ ID No 19 XhoI site is underlined and 5 GGGGTTATGGTTTCTGAGAACA 3 SEQ ID No 20 SpeI site is underlined and ligated into pCR2.1 Invitrogen San Diego Calif. . E7 was excised from pCR2.1 by XhoI SpeI digestion and subsequently ligated as an in frame translational fusion into pUC19 hly downstream of the hemolysin gene fragment. The fusion was then subcloned into the multilinker of pAM401. The prfA gene was then subcloned into the SalI site of the resulting plasmid yielding pGG 55 .

HMW MAA fragments A B and C encoding AA 360 554 701 1130 and 2160 2258 respectively have the following sequences 

The fragments were amplified using the following primers. The XhoI sites in the forward primers and XmaI sites A and C or SpeI site B in the reverse primers are underlined 

Fragments A C were then subcloned into pGG 55 using the XhoI site at the end of the hly sequence and the XmaI or SpeI site following the gene.

A prfA negative strain of XFL 7 provided by Dr. Hao Shen University of Pennsylvania was then transformed with pGG34A B and C to select for the retention of the plasmids in vivo.

Recombinant LM expressing the HMW MAA fragments A B and C fused to LLO were grown overnight in BHI medium supplemented with streptomycin 250 ug ml and chloramphenicol 25 ug ml . For induction of endogeneous LLO bacteria were cultivated in the presence of 0.2 charcoal. Culture supernatants were cleared by centrifugation at 14000 rpm for 5 minutes and 1.35 ml supernatant was mixed with 0.15 ml of 100 TCA for protein precipitation. After incubation on ice for 1 hour the solution was spun for 10 minutes 14000 rpm. The pellet was resuspended in 45 microliter mcL of 1 SDS PAGE gel loading buffer 5 mcL of 1 M DTT was added and the sample was heated at 75 C. for 5 minutes. 5 10 mcL of protein was loaded into each well and run for 50 minutes at 200V using MOPS buffer.

After transfer to PVDF membranes membranes were incubated with either a rabbit anti PEST polyclonal antibody 1 3000 which recognizes the PEST sequence in the LLO protein or with the B3 19 monoclonal antibody which recognizes the endogenous LLO only then incubated with HRP conjugated anti rabbit antibody. Signals were detected with SUPERSIGNAL West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate Pierce Rockford Ill. .

To determine whether the LLO HMW MAA constructs could be expressed in supernatant was harvested from LM strains transformed with the LLO HMW MAA A B and C plasmids and assayed for presence of the fusion proteins. All three strains produced fusion proteins of the expected sizes when probed with anti PEST antibody 48 Kda for LLO 75 Kda for HMW MAA A 98 Kda for HMW MAA B and 62 Kda for HMW MAA C . Anti LLO antibody revealed 58 Kda band for LLO in all three strains and controls .

Murine macrophage like J774 cells were infected at a MOI multiplicity of infection of 1. After a 1 hour incubation gentamicin was added to kill extracellular intracellular was recovered every 2 hours by lysing the J774 cells with water and plating serial dilutions of the lysate on BHI plates supplemented with streptomycin 250 micrograms mcg ml and chloramphenicol 25 mcg ml . Recovered colonies were counted and used to determine the number of inside J774 cells.

To determine the growth characteristics and virulence of strains expressing LLO HMW MAA constructs the growth rate of strains from the previous Example in BHI media was measured. Each of the strains grew with kinetics very similar to wild type 10403S . Next J774 cells were incubated with the strains and intracellular growth was measured. Intracellular growth was very similar to wild type for each strain .

Thus strains expressing LLO HMW MAA constructs maintain their ability to grow in media to infect cells and to grow intracellularly.

Tumors were measured every second day with calipers spanning the shortest and longest surface diameters. The mean of these two measurements was plotted as the mean tumor diameter in millimeters against various time points. Mice were sacrificed when the tumor diameter reached 20 mm. Tumor measurements for each time point are shown only for surviving mice.

32 C57BL 6 mice n 8 per group were inoculated with 5 10B16F0 Ova. On days 3 10 and 17 the mice were immunized with one of 3 constructs Lm OVA 10cfu Lm LLO OVA 10cfu positive control and Lm LLO HMW MAA C 10cfu . Despite the lack of expression of HMW MAA by the tumor cells Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccination impeded tumor growth significantly but to a lesser extent than Lm LLO OVA . In an additional experiment similar results were observed with all three Lm LLO HMW MAA strains 2.5 10cfu each of A and C 1 10cfu of B .

A similar experiment was performed with RENCA cells. 40 BALB c mice n 8 per group were inoculated with 2 10RENCA tumor cells. On days 3 10 and 17 the mice were immunized with one of four constructs Lm HMW MAA A B or C 2.5 10cfu each of A and C 1 10cfu of B or GGE7 Lm LLO E7 1.0 10cfu or were left unvaccinated na ve . All three Lm LLO HMW MAA strains impeded tumor growth with Lm HMW MAA C exerting the strongest effect .

Thus vaccination with HMW MAA expressing Lm impedes the growth of tumors even in the absence of expression of HMW MAA by the tumor cells.

The B16F10 melanoma was chosen as a mouse tumor model to test the therapeutic efficacy of the Lm LLO HMW MAA vaccine because HMW MAA is expressed in a high proportion of melanoma lesions in humans. The B16F10 cell line which does not express the mouse HMW MAA homolog AN2 was transfected with the full length HMW MAA gene. B16F10 cells were transfected with pcDNA3.1 HMW MAA plasmid containing the full length HMW MAA cDNA expressed under the control of the CMV promoter. Stably transfected cells were selected by resistance to G418 antibiotic and clones were subsequently grown from single cells by limiting dilution. Selected clones were tested by flow cytometry for HMW MAA expression using the HMW MAA specific monoclonal antibody VT80.12. Based on the flow cytometry results B16F10 HMW MAA clone 7 was selected for future experiments .

32 C57BL 6 mice were inoculated with 2 10B16F10 HMW MAA CMV7. On days 3 10 and 17 the mice were immunized with Lm HMW MAA C 2.5 10cfu except the control na ve group. For CD4 and CD8 depletions 500 g of GK1.5 and 2.43 were given i.p. on days 1 2 6 and 9 as well as the control antibody G1. For CD25 depletion 500 g of CP61 was given i.p. on days 0 and 2.

HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice express a chimeric class I molecule composed of the 1 and 2 domains of the human A 0201 allele and the 3 domains of the mouse H 2Kclass I molecules. HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice were immunized once with either 1.0 10cfu of Lm HMW MAA B or 2.5 10cfu of Lm HMW MAA C. Nine days later splenocytes were stimulated in vitro with peptide B ILSNLSFPV SEQ ID NO 43 corresponds to HMW MAA peptide B LLFGSIVAV SEQ ID NO 44 corresponds to HMW MAA or peptide C LILPLLFYL SEQ ID NO 45 corresponds to HMW MAA for 5 hours in the presence of monensin. Cells were gated on CD8 CD62Land IFN intracellular staining was measured.

In a separate experiment mice were immunized twice day 0 and day 7 with either Lm HMW MAA B or Lm HMW MAA C and splenocytes harvested on day 14 for in vitro stimulation with fragment B1 or C of Lm HMW MAA. IFN levels were measured using IFN Elispot.

C57BL 6 mice n 8 per group were inoculated with 2 10B16F10 HMW MAA CMV7. On days 3 and 17 mice were immunized with one of three constructs Lm HMW MAA A 2.5 10cfu Lm HMW MAA B 1 10cfu Lm HMW MAA C 2.5 10cfu . The control group was vaccinated with Lm GGE7 1 10cfu . All three Lm HMW MAA constructs exerted significant anti tumor effects .

To determine the role of CD4 and CD8 cells in the anti tumor effect of Lm HMW MAA CD4 or CD8 cells were depleted by antibody administration in C57BL 6 mice who had been innoculated with B16F10 HMW MAA CMV7B and immunized on days 3 10 and 17 with Lm HMW MAA C 2.5 10cfu . CD4 or CD8 depletion abrogated the efficacy of LM HMW MAA C vaccine . In the non immunized control group all mice developed tumors whereas 50 of the mice immunized with Lm LLO HMW MAA C and given a control antibody remained tumor free for at least 56 days after tumor challenge. On the other hand none of the mice receiving either the anti CD8 or anti CD4 antibodies could control the tumor growth showing that both cells types play an important role in the anti tumor immunity generated by the Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccine . However administration of the anti CD25 antibody did not improve the efficacy of the Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccine suggesting that the subset of CD4 CD25 T regulatory cells does not have a significant influence in this model .

Lm vectors are recognized for their ability to generate strong CD8 T cell responses which are important for tumor rejection. To verify if the CD8 T cells generated upon immunization with Lm LLO HMW MAA C had anti tumor activity against the B16F10 HMW MAA cell line CD8 T cells 2 10cells per mouse were purified from the spleens of mice from each treatment group mixed with B16F10 HMW MAA tumor cells 2 10per mouse and then subcutaneously injected in mice 8 per group . Mice were observed for 28 days and examined every 2 days for tumor growth. CD8 T cells from Lm HMW MAA C vaccinated mice inhibited the growth of B16F10 HMW MAA tumors in vivo . When mixed with CD8 T cells from mice immunized with Lm LLO HMW MAA C 50 of the na ve animals did not develop tumors in four weeks as compared to none in the control group P 0.05 . This result indicates that vaccination with Lm LLO HMW MAA C induces CD8 T cells able to inhibit the in vivo growth of the B16F10 HMW MAA cell line.

Mice that had been inoculated with 2 10B16F10 HMW MAA CMV7 and vaccinated with Lm HMW MAA C as described above and remained tumor free after 7 weeks were re challenged with 2 10B16F10 HMW MAA cells 7 weeks after the first tumor injection. Vaccinated mice were protected against a second challenge with B16F10 HMW MAA CMV7 tumor cells .

Immunization of HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice with Lm HMW MAA B and Lm HMW MAA C induces detectable immune responses against two characterized HMW MAA HLA A2 epitopes in fragments B and C both after one or two immunizations .

HLA A2 Kand wild type C57BI 6 mice were immunized once with Lm HMW MAA B or Lm HMW MAA C and IFN secretion by T cells stimulated with an HLA A2 restricted peptide from fragment C was measured with IFN Elispot. IFN secretion was increased in Lm HMW MAA C immunized HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice stimulated with Peptide C compared to unstimulated transgenic mice compared to Peptide C stimulated non transgenic mice and compared to non immunized transgenic and control mice .

The HMW MAA fragment expressed and secreted by the Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccine contains the HLA A2 restricted epitope LILPLLFYL. To test whether immunization with Lm LLO HMW MAA C was able to induce immune responses against this epitope we vaccinated either HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice or C57BL 6 mice with Lm LLO HMW MAA C and analyzed the production of IFN by ELISpot after stimulation with HMW MAApeptide. Following two immunizations a significantly higher number of SFC was detected in splenocytes from the HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice but not in the C57BL 6 mice. Similar results were obtained using intracellular staining for IFN . After one immunization with Lm LLO HMW MAA C IFN production was detected in 0.51 of the CD8 T cells from the HLA A2 Ktransgenic mice stimulated with the HMW MAApeptide compared to 0.06 in the absence of the peptide. No responses could be detected in non transgenic C57Bl 6 mice data not shown . These results show that immunization with the Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccine can induce CD8 T cell responses against a HMW MAA epitope restricted to the HLA A2 molecule.

Thus Lm HMW MAA constructs induce antigen specific immune responses that impede tumor growth. In addition the Lm HMW MAA constructs exhibit anti tumor activity even against tumors not expressing HMW MAA.

FVB N 6 8 week old female mice were injected subcutaneously with 1 10NT 2 tumor cells suspended in 1 PBS at a total volume of 200 l. Mice were immunized with either 1 10Lm LLO NYESO 1 vaccine or 2.5 10Lm LLO HMWMAA C vaccine in 1 PBS 2001 total volume i.p. on days 7 14 and 21. Tumors were measured every week started from day 7. The NYESO 1 group were 8 mice total the HMWMAA C group was 5 mice total.

From the NYESO 1 group 0 8 showed total tumor regression 2 5 mice in the HMWMAA group had complete tumor regression size 0.0 mm . The group immunized with Lm LLO HMWMAA C had significantly decreased tumor size compared to the group immunized with Lm LLO NYESO 1 .

Interestingly we observed that immunization of mice with Lm LLO HMW MAA C could impact the growth of several different tumors that were not engineered to express HMW MAA such as the parental B16F10 RENCA and NT 2 tumors which were derived from distinct mouse strains. In the RENCA which is a spontaneous renal carcinoma cell line derived from the BALB c mouse and B16F10 models mice were immunized weekly with Lm LLO HMW MAA C three times starting 3 days after tumor challenge. Immunization with Lm LLO HMW MAA C significantly delayed the growth of these tumors and B . In the NT 2 tumor model which is a mammary carcinoma cell line expressing the rat HER 2 neu protein and is derived from the FVB N HER 2 neu transgenic mice immunization with Lm LLO HMW MAA C 7 days after tumor inoculation not only impaired tumor growth but also induced regression of the tumor in 1 out of 5 mice . Furthermore these results could not be attributed to a non specific Lm effect since a control Lm vaccine strain did not impact on the growth of B16F10 RENCA or NT 2 tumors . We also evaluated the effect of Lm LLO HMW MAA C immunization in a spontaneous tumor model using the FVB N HER 2 neu transgenic mouse. These mice express the rat HER 2 neu proto oncogene under the control of the mouse mammary tumor virus MMTV promoter. In this transgenic mouse strain over 90 of the females develop focal mammary tumors after a latency of about 4 6 months. Immunization with Lm LLO HMW MAA C significantly delayed the median time for the onset of mammary tumors in these mice 39 weeks as compared to a control Lm vaccine 25 weeks .

Thereafter spleens taken from 84 day mice were glass homogenized and washed RBC lysed then counted for Elispots. Splenocytes were placed in Elispot wells and titrated primary and detection antibodies were anti IFNgamma. Peptides were added to corresponding wells for a final concentration of 2 M. Background spots medium alone were subtracted from values shown. Statistical test Mann Whitney two tailed was performed to determine statistical significance .

Although NT 2 cells do not express the HMW MAA homolog AN2 immunization of FVB N mice with Lm LLO HMW MAA C significantly impaired the growth of NT 2 tumors and eventually led to tumor regression . One hypothesis is that activated pericytes present in tumor blood vessels which express the AN2 HMW MAA marker could be a potential target for HMW MAA vaccines. Because Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccination had a pronounced effect in NT 2 tumors we used this tumor model to evaluate CD8 T cells and pericytes in the tumor site by immunofluorescence. Staining of NT 2 tumor sections for CD8 showed infiltration of CD8 T cells into the tumors and around blood vessels in mice immunized with the Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccine but not in mice immunized with the control vaccine . We also analyzed pericytes in NT 2 tumors by double staining with SMA and NG2 antibodies. The NG2 protein is the rat homolog of HMW MAA and the NG2 antibody used in this study has been shown to cross react with the mouse homolog AN2. Data analysis from 3 independent NT 2 tumors showed a significant decrease in the number of pericytes in mice immunized with Lm LLO HMW MAA C as compared to control P 0.05 . Similar results were obtained when the analysis was restricted to cells stained for SMA which is not targeted by the vaccine data not shown . This finding is in agreement with the hypothesis that Lm LLO HMW MAA C vaccination might potentially impact blood vessel formation in the tumor site by targeting pericytes.

Immunization with HMW MAA C has no impact on wound healing pregnancy and fertility in mice. To evaluate whether Lm LLO HMW MAA C causes toxicity that is associated with angiogenesis inhibition we studied wound healing pregnancy and fertility in immunized mice. No significant difference was observed in the time required for wound closure in mice immunized with Lm LLO HMW MAA C as compared to a control Lm vaccine or saline injection . Similarly Lm LLO HMW MAA C immunization had no impact on fertility gestation length and pup mass at birth . Thus despite its effect on tumor vasculature we did not observe toxicity associated with blood vessel damage in mice immunized with Lm HMW MAA C such as wound healing pregnancy or fertility problems.

These findings demonstrated that a breast tumor NT 2 which expresses HER 2 neu can be eliminated by the vaccine of the invention. Lm LLO HMW MAA fragment C residues 2160 2258 SEQ ID NO 3 is effective at controlling a breast tumor growth. In addition the present findings demonstrate the dual action of the vaccine in spreading the immune response from HMW MAA to the HER 2 neu antigen expressed by the breast tumor cells. Immunohistochemical staining indicated that the anti HMW MAA CTL induced is found located around the tumor blood vessels confirming that the immune response targets the tumor vasculature. Since tumors need vasculature to grow vaccination with Lm LLO HMW 2160 2258 is effective against all tumor types. However Lm LLO HMW 2160 2258 is particularly effective in tumors expressing HER 2 neu.

Lm actA E7 was generated by introducing a plasmid vector pDD 1 constructed by modifying pDP 2028 into LM. pDD 1 comprises an expression cassette expressing a copy of the 310 bp hly promoter and the hly signal sequence ss which drives the expression and secretion of actA E7 1170 bp of the actA gene that comprises 4 PEST sequences SEQ ID NO 5 the truncated ActA polypeptide consists of the first 390 AA of the molecule SEQ ID NO 4 the 300 bp HPV E7 gene the 1019 bp prfA gene controls expression of the virulence genes and the CAT gene chloramphenicol resistance gene for selection of transformed bacteria clones.

Construction of pDP1659 The DNA fragment encoding the first 420 AA of LLO and its promoter and upstream regulatory sequences was PCR amplified with LM genomic DNA used as a template and ligated into pUC19. PCR primers used were 5 GGCCCGGGCCCCCTCCTTTGAT 3 SEQ ID No 30 and 5 GGTCTAGATCATAATTTACTTCATCC 3 SEQ ID No 31 . The DNA fragment encoding NP was similarly PCR amplified from linearized plasmid pAPR501 obtained from Dr. Peter Palese Mt. Sinai Medical School New York and subsequently ligated as an in frame translational fusion into pUC19 downstream of the hemolysin gene fragment. PCR primers used were 5 GGTCTAGAGAATTCCAGCAAAAGCAG 3 SEQ ID No 32 and 5 GGGTCGACAAGGGTATTTTTCTTTAAT 3 SEQ ID No 33 . The fusion was then subcloned into the EcoRV and SalI sites of pAM401. Plasmid pDP2028 was constructed by subcloning the prfA gene into the SalI site of pDP1659.

The hly promoter pHly and gene fragment 441 AA were PCR amplified from pGG55 using primer 5 GGGGCCTCCTTTGATTAGTATATTC 3 Xba I site is underlined SEQ ID NO 34 and primer 5 ATCTTCGCTATCTGTCGCGCGTGCTTCAGTTTGTTGCGC 3 Not I site is underlined. The first 18 nucleotides are the ActA gene overlap SEQ ID NO 35 . The actA gene was PCR amplified from the LM 10403s wildtype genome using primer 5 GCGCAACAAACTGAAGCAGCGGCGACAGATAGCGAAGAT 3 NotI site is underlined SEQ ID NO 36 and primer 5 TGTAGGTGTATCTCCATGAGCTAGGCGATCAATTTC 3 XhoI site is underlined SEQ ID NO 37 . The E7 gene was PCR amplified from pGG55 using primer 5 GGAATTGATCGCCTAGCTCATGGAGATACACCTACA 3 XhoI site is underlined SEQ ID NO 38 and primer 5 AAACGGATTTATTTAGATTTATGGTTTCTGAGAACA 3 XmaI site is underlined SEQ ID NO 39 . The prfA gene was PCR amplified from the LM 10403s wild type genome using primer 5 TGTTCTCAGAAACCATAAATCTAAATAAATCCGTTT 3 XmaI site is underlined SEQ ID NO 40 and primer 5 GGGGGCCAGCTCTTCTTGGTGAAG 3 SalI site is underlined SEQ ID NO 41 . The hly promoter actA gene fusion pHly actA was PCR generated and amplified from purified pHly and actA DNA using the upstream pHly primer SEQ ID NO 34 and downstream actA primer SEQ ID NO 37 .

The E7 gene fused to the prfA gene E7 prfA was PCR generated and amplified from purified E7 and prfA DNA using the upstream E7 primer SEQ ID NO 38 and downstream prfA gene primer SEQ ID NO 41 .

The pHly actA fusion product fused to the E7 prfA fusion product was PCR generated and amplified from purified fused pHly actA and E7 prfA DNA products using the upstream pHly primer SEQ ID NO 34 and downstream prfA gene primer SEQ ID NO 41 and ligated into pCR11 Invitrogen La Jolla Calif. . Competent TOP10 F Invitrogen La Jolla Calif. were transformed with pCRII ActAE7. After lysis and isolation the plasmid was screened by restriction analysis using BamHI expected fragment sizes 770 and 6400 bp and BstXI expected fragment sizes 2800 and 3900 and screened by PCR using the above described upstream pHly primer and downstream prfA gene primer.

The pHly ActA E7 PrfA DNA insert was excised from pCRII by XbaI SalI digestion with and ligated into XbaI Sal I digested pDP 2028. After transforming TOP10 F competent Invitrogen LaJolla Calif. with expression system pHly ActA E7 chloramphenicol resistant clones were screened by PCR analysis using the above described upstream pHly primer and downstream prfA gene primer. A clone containing pHly ActA E7 was amplified and midiprep DNA was isolated Promega Madison Wis . XFL 7 was transformed with pHly ActA E7 and clones were selected for the retention of the plasmid in vivo. Clones were grown in brain heart infusion medium Difco Detroit Mich. with 20 mcg microgram ml milliliter chloramphenicol at 37 C. Bacteria were frozen in aliquots at 80 C.

500 mcL of MATRIGEL containing 100 mcL of phosphate buffered saline PBS with 2 10TC 1 tumor cells plus 400 mcL of MATRIGEL BD Biosciences Franklin Lakes N.J. were implanted subcutaneously on the left flank of C57BL 6 mice n 3 . Mice were immunized intraperitoneally on day 7 14 and 21 and spleens and tumors were harvested on day 28. Tumor Matrigels were removed from the mice and incubated at 4 C. overnight in tubes containing 2 ml RP 10 medium on ice. Tumors were minced with forceps cut into 2 mm blocks and incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour with 3 ml of enzyme mixture 0.2 mg ml collagenase P 1 mg ml DNAse 1 in PBS . The tissue suspension was filtered through nylon mesh and washed with 5 fetal bovine serum 0.05 of NaNin PBS for tetramer and IFN gamma staining.

Splenocytes and tumor cells were incubated with micromole mcm E7 peptide for 5 hours in the presence of brefeldin A at 10cells ml. Cells were washed twice and incubated in 50 mcL of anti mouse Fc receptor supernatant 2.4 G2 for 1 hour or overnight at 4 C. Cells were stained for surface molecules CD8 and CD62L permeabilized fixed using the permeabilization kit GOLGI STOP or GOLGI PLUG Pharmingen San Diego Calif. and stained for IFN gamma 500 000 events were acquired using two laser flow cytometer FACSCalibur and analyzed using Cellquest Software Becton Dickinson Franklin Lakes N.J. . Percentages of IFN gamma secreting cells within the activated CD62L CD8T cells were calculated.

For tetramer staining H 2Dtetramer was loaded with phycoerythrin PE conjugated E7 peptide RAHYNIVTF SEQ ID NO 42 stained at rt for 1 hour and stained with anti allophycocyanin APC conjugated MEL 14 CD62L and FITC conjugated CD8 at 4 C. for 30 min. Cells were analyzed comparing tetramerCD8 CD62Lcells in the spleen and in the tumor.

To analyze the ability of LLO and ActA fusions to enhance antigen specific immunity mice were implanted with TC 1 tumor cells and immunized with either Lm LLO E7 1 10CFU Lm E7 1 10CFU or Lm ActA E7 2 10CFU or were untreated na ve . Tumors of mice from the Lm LLO E7 and Lm ActA E7 groups contained a higher percentage of IFN gamma secreting CD8 T cells and tetramer specific CD8 cells than in mice administered Lm E7 or na ve mice.

Thus Lm LLO E7 and Lm ActA E7 are both efficacious at induction of tumor infiltrating CD8 T cells and tumor regression. Accordingly LLO and ActA fusions are effective in methods and compositions of the present invention.

Lm PEST E7 a strain identical to Lm LLO E7 except that it contains only the promoter and the first 50 AA of the LLO was constructed as follows 

The hly promoter and PEST regions were fused to the full length E7 gene by splicing by overlap extension SOE PCR. The E7 gene and the hly PEST gene fragment were amplified from the plasmid pGG 55 which contains the first 441 amino acids of LLO and spliced together by conventional PCR techniques. pVS16.5 the hly PEST E7 fragment and the LM transcription factor prfA were subcloned into the plasmid pAM401. The resultant plasmid was used to transform XFL 7.

Lm E7is a recombinant strain that secretes E7 without the PEST region or an LLO fragment. The plasmid used to transform this strain contains a gene fragment of the hly promoter and signal sequence fused to the E7 gene. This construct differs from the original Lm E7 which expressed a single copy of the E7 gene integrated into the chromosome. Lm E7is completely isogenic to Lm LLO E7 and Lm PEST E7 except for the form of the E7 antigen expressed.

Recombinant strains were grown in brain heart infusion BHI medium with chloramphenicol 20 mcg mL . Bacteria were frozen in aliquots at 80 C.

To test the effect on antigenicity of fusion to a PEST like sequence the LLO PEST like sequence was fused to E7. Tumor regression studies were performed as described for Example 1 in parallel with strain expressing LLO E7 and E7 alone. Lm LLO E7 and Lm PEST E7 caused the regression 5 8 and 3 8 established tumors respectively . By contrast Lm E7epi only caused tumor regression in 1 8 mice. A statistically significant difference in tumor sizes was observed between tumors treated with PEST containing constructs Lm LLO E7 or Lm PEST E7 and those treated with Lm E7epi Student s t test .

To compare the levels of E7 specific lymphocytes generated by the vaccines in the spleen spleens were harvested on day 21 and stained with antibodies to CD62L CD8 and the E7 Db tetramer. Lm E7epi induced low levels of E7 tetramer positive activated CD8 T cells in the spleen while Lm PEST E7 and Lm LLO E7 induced 5 and 15 times more cells respectively a result that was reproducible over 3 separate experiments. Thus fusion to PEST like sequences increased induction of tetramer positive splenocytes. The mean and SE of data obtained from the 3 experiments demonstrate the significant increase in tetramer positive CD8 cells by Lm LLO E7 and Lm PEST E7 over Lm E7epi P

The WR strain of vaccinia was used as the recipient and the fusion gene was excised from the Listerial plasmid and inserted into pSC11 under the control of the p75 promoter. This vector was chosen because it is the transfer vector used for the vaccinia constructs Vac SigE7Lamp and Vac E7 and therefore allowed direct comparison with Vac LLO E7. In this way all 3 vaccinia recombinants were expressed under control of the same early late compound promoter p7.5. In addition SC11 allows the selection of recombinant viral plaques to TK selection and beta galactosidase screening. depicts the various vaccinia constructs used in these experiments. Vac SigE7Lamp is a recombinant vaccinia virus that expressed the E7 protein fused between lysosomal associated membrane protein LAMP 1 signal sequence and sequence from the cytoplasmic tail of LAMP 1.

The following modifications were made to allow expression of the gene product by vaccinia a the T5XT sequence that prevents early transcription by vaccinia was removed from the 5 portion of the LLO E7 sequence by PCR and b an additional XmaI restriction site was introduced by PCR to allow the final insertion of LLO E7 into SC11. Successful introduction of these changes without loss of the original sequence that encodes for LLO E7 was verified by sequencing. The resulting pSCl 1 E7 construct was used to transfect the TK ve cell line CV1 that had been infected with the wild type vaccinia strain WR. Cell lysates obtained from this co infection transfection step contain vaccinia recombinants that were plaque purified 3 times. Expression of the LLO E7 fusion product by plaque purified vaccinia was verified by Western blot using an antibody directed against the LLO protein sequence. Ability of Vac LLO E7 to produce CD8 T cells specific to LLO and E7 was determined using the LLO 91 99 and E7 49 57 epitopes of Balb c and C57 BL6 mice respectively. Results were confirmed in a chromium release assay.

To determine whether enhancement of immunogenicity by fusion of an antigen to LLO requires a vector a vaccinia vector expressing E7 as a fusion protein with a non hemolytic truncated form of LLO was constructed. Tumor rejection studies were performed with TC 1 as described in above Examples but initiating treatment when the tumors were 3 mm in diameter . By day 76 50 of the Vac LLO E7 treated mice were tumor free while only 25 of the Vac SigE7Lamp mice were tumor free. In other experiments LLO antigen fusions were shown to be more immunogenic than E7 peptide mixed with SBAS2 or unmethylated CpG oligonucleotides in a side by side comparison. These results show that a LLO antigen fusions are immunogenic not only in the context of but also in other contexts and b the immunogenicity of LLO antigen fusions compares favorably with other vaccine approaches known to be efficacious.

