---

title: Architectural design for service request and order management application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing service request and order management. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Outbound Delivery process component, a Site Logistics Processing process component, an Inventory Processing process component, a Customer Requirement Processing process component, a Supply and Demand Matching process component, a Logistics Execution Control process component, a Service Request Processing process component, a Service Order Processing process component, and a Service Confirmation Processing process component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595077&OS=08595077&RS=08595077
owner: SAP AG
number: 08595077
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for service request and order management.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a software application implementing service request and order management.

In its various aspects the invention can be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing service request and order management. The software application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service operations each implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Outbound Delivery process component a Site Logistics Processing process component an Inventory Processing process component a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component a Logistics Execution Control process component a Service Request Processing process component a Service Order Processing process component a Service Confirmation Processing process component a Customer Invoice Processing process component an Accounting process component a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Due Item Processing process component a Payment Processing process component a Pricing Engine process component an External Tax Calculation process component a Payment Authorization process component a Settlement Processing at Clearing House processing component a Customer Quote Processing process component a Service Contract Processing process component and a Financial Accounting Master Data Management processing component.

In its various aspects the invention can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with external software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a subcombination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the Service Request and Order Management design includes a Customer Relationship Management deployment unit a Supply Chain Control deployment unit a Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit a Customer Invoicing deployment unit a Due Item Management deployment unit a Payment deployment unit and a Financial Accounting deployment unit .

The Customer Relationship Management deployment unit includes a Service Request Processing process component a Service Order Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component a Service Contract Processing process component and a Service Confirmation Processing process component . The Service Request Processing process component is used to log and resolve service requests concerning issues that customers have for example with regard to products. The Service Order Processing process component creates plans and fulfills service orders for example to be executed by a service engineer at customer site for an agreed price. The Service Confirmation Processing process component reports back times and quantities consumed for providing requested services. Additionally the Service Confirmation Processing process component can also report back quantity of spare parts consumed related to the execution of a service order.

The Customer Quote Processing process component handles the processing of quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms. The Service Contract Processing process component handles the maintenance of contractual agreements that are concluded between service providers and customers for specific time periods. They can serve as a basis for processing service requests and service orders in a customer service and support environment. In service contracts it is possible to specify the type and scope of services that are provided to the customer as well as particular service levels. The agreements that have been made in the service contract can be invoiced to the customer. Revenues from the contract and costs incurred from services delivered with reference to the contract can be collected in financial accounting.

The Supply Chain Control deployment unit includes a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component and a Logistics Execution Control process component .

The Customer Requirement Processing process component handles customer requirements in the supply chain. This involves checking material availability receiving preparing and passing customer requirements on to supply planning and logistics and providing feedback on fulfillment. The Supply and Demand Matching process component manages tasks to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demanded while taking into account available capacity. The Logistics Execution Control process component creates controls and monitors the supply chain execution activities for fulfilling an order. In some embodiments the Logistics Execution Control process component can trigger some site logistics activities and can receive information about the supply chain execution progress.

The Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit includes a Site Logistics Processing process component an Inventory Processing process component and an Outbound Delivery Processing process component . The Site Logistics Processing process component prepares executes and confirms logistics processes in a warehouse environment. Logistics processes based on site logistics process models can include picking packing shipping receiving as well as value added services. The Inventory Processing process component manages inventory and records inventory changes. In some embodiments the Inventory Processing process component can provide services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations. The Outbound Delivery Processing process component manages and processes outbound delivery requirements for shipping goods to a product recipient. In some embodiments the Outbound Delivery Processing process component can combine tasks for the outbound delivery process and enable communication with the originating document e.g. a fulfillment process the product recipient and invoicing.

The Customer Invoicing deployment unit includes a Customer Invoice Processing process component . The Customer Invoice Processing process component sends invoices to customers for delivery of goods and services.

The Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit includes a Site Logistics Processing process component an Outbound Delivery Processing process component and an Inventory Processing process component . The Site Logistics Processing process component handles the preparation physical execution and confirmation of logistics processes within a site. In some embodiments logistics processes which cam be based on site logistics process models can include picking packing shipping and receiving as well as value added services. The Outbound Delivery Processing process component handles the management and processing of outbound delivery requirements for shipping goods to a product recipient. In some embodiments the process component can combine all document based tasks for an outbound delivery process and can enable communication with an originating document i.e. fulfillment a product recipient and invoicing. The Inventory Processing process component handles the management of inventory and recording of inventory changes. In some embodiments the process component can provide services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations.

The Customer Invoicing deployment unit includes a Customer Invoice Processing process component . The Customer Invoice Processing process component handles the invoicing of customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services.

The Due Item Management deployment unit includes a Balance Of Foreign Payment Management processing component and a Due Item Processing process component . The Balance Of Foreign Payment Management processing component handles the collection processing and reporting of receivables and payables according to foreign trade regulations that may be required by the central banks to create the balance of payments of a country. The Due Item Processing process component handles the collection management and monitoring of trade receivables or payables and corresponding sales tax or withholding tax.

The Payment deployment unit includes a Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component handles the processing and management of all payments. In some embodiments the process component can also handle associated communication with financial institutions for example banks and can provide the primary input for liquidity management.

A Pricing Engine process component handles the processing of price and tax calculation. An External Tax Calculation process component handles tax calculations performed by third party software. A Payment Authorization process component manages a reusable service that can be used to process an authorization request for a payment made using a payment card at a clearing house. In some embodiments for example the process component can authorize payment for goods or services purchased from an online store using a credit card. A Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component handles settlement at the clearing house.

The Financial Accounting deployment unit includes an Accounting process component and a Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . The Accounting process component represents relevant business transactions for valuation and profitability analysis. The Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component manages financial accounting master data that is used both for accounting and costing purposes.

A number of external process components described below will be used to describe the architectural design. These include a Service Request Processing at Requester process component a Service Request Processing at Provider process component a Service Order Confirmation Processing at Customer process component a Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component an Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component a Payment Order processing at House Bank process component and a Due Item Processing At Business Partner process component .

The Service Request Processing at Requester process component handles creating or updating a service request that is triggered externally from a requester. In some embodiments the service request can be maintained according to the data replicated from the external request. Confirmations of the information exchange as well as updates on processing progress can be provided back to the requester. The Service Request Processing at Provider process component handles a service request forwarded to a service provider for external processing. In some embodiments information about the creation and or update of the service request can be replicated to an external system. Confirmations of the information exchange as well as updates on processing progress can be provided back to the service request. The Service Order Confirmation Processing at Customer process component confirms service order processing at a customer site.

The Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component handles information related to supplier invoice processing at the customer s side related to the creation or cancellation of a customer invoice from customer invoice processing. In some embodiments the information can be sent either via xml or form message output. The Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component handles notifications about expected deliveries.

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in the Service Confirmation Processing process component includes a Service Confirmation business object . The Service Confirmation business object represents a record of services and spare parts that a service technician reports back after performing a service for a customer. The Service Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Spare Part Consumption from Service Confirmation to Inventory Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Spare Part Consumption operation . The operation is included in an Inventory Changing Out interface . The Notify of Spare Part Consumption operation notifies the Inventory Processing process component about consumption of spare parts. The Notify of Spare Part Consumption operation generates a Goods and Activity Confirmation Inventory Change Notification message and sends the message to the Inventory Processing process component .

The Inventory Processing process component receives the Goods and Activity Confirmation Inventory Change Notification message . The message is handled in a Create Goods and Activity Confirmation operation . The operation is included in an Inventory Changing In interface . The Create Goods and Activity Confirmation operation creates a confirmation for goods and activities. The operation uses a Maintain Goods and Activity Confirmation inbound process agent to update a Goods and Activity Confirmation business object . The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed inventory changes that occurred at a specific time.

As shown in the Service Confirmation Processing process component includes a Service Request business object . The Service Request business object uses a Notify of Service Request to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Service Request operation . The Notify of Service Request operation notifies the Accounting process component that a service request has been processed. The Notify of Service Request operation is included in a Sales And Purchasing Accounting Out interface .

The Notify of Service Request operation generates a Sales And Purchasing Accounting Notification message . The message is received in the Accounting process component where it is handled by a Create Accounting Notification operation . The Create Accounting Notification operation receives order accounting notification from the Service Confirmation Processing process component the Service Contract Processing process component the Service Request Processing process component the Service Order Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component and a Sales Order Processing process component. The notification informs an Accounting Notification business object about the creation change or deletion of any kind of order business objects. The Create Accounting Notification operation is included in a Sales And Purchasing Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Notification operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales And Purchasing inbound process agent to update an Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It represents the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and includes data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions between Process Components Service Confirmation Processing and Customer Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Service Confirmation Processing process component includes the Service Confirmation business object . The Service Confirmation business object represents a record of services and spare parts that a service technician reports back after performing a service for a customer. The Service Confirmation business object uses a Request Invoicing from Service Confirmation to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation requests invoicing of services provided and spare parts consumed based on information in the service confirmation. The Request Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The Request Invoicing operation sends a Customer Invoice Request Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing process component .

A Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation receives the message . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation creates updates or cancels a customer invoice request. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

A Customer Invoice business object uses a Confirm Customer Invoice to Service Confirmation Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Invoicing operation . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer. The Confirm Invoicing operation confirms that invoicing has taken place. The Confirm Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The operation sends a Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message to the Service Confirmation Processing process component .

A Change Service Confirmation based on Customer Invoice operation receives the Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message . The Change Service Confirmation based on Customer Invoice operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Change Service Confirmation based on Customer Invoice operation updates a service confirmation based on information from related customer invoices. The operation uses a Change Service Confirmation based on Customer Invoice inbound process agent to update the Service Confirmation business object .

Interactions between Process Components Service Order Processing and Service Order Confirmation Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Service Order Processing process component includes a Service Order business object . The Service Order business object represents an agreement between a service provider and a customer about the execution of services at a specific time and for a specific price. The Service Order business object can also include planning for personnel spare parts and other expenses for providing the services.

The Service Order business object uses a Confirm Service Order to Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Service Order operation . The operation confirms to the customer that a service order has been processed. The Confirm Service Order operation is included in an Ordering Out interface . The operation generates a Form Service Order Confirmation message and sends it to the Service Order Confirmation Processing at Customer process component .

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Site Logistics Requisition business object . The Site Logistics Requisition business object represents a request to logistics execution to execute a site logistics process for a certain quantity of material by a certain time.

The business object uses a Request Site Logistics Processing from Site Log Request to Site Logistics Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Site Logistics operation . The operation is included in a Site Logistics Processing Out interface . The Request Site Logistics operation generates a Site Logistics Request Request message . The Request Site Logistics operation requests the creation updating or deletion of a site logistics request. The Site Logistics Request Request message is sent to the Site Logistics Processing process component in order to maintain the site logistics request.

The message is received by a Maintain Site Logistics Request operation . The operation is included in a Site Logistics Processing In interface . The Maintain Site Logistics Request operation creates updates or deletes a site logistics request. The Maintain Site Logistics Request operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Request inbound process agent to update a Site Logistics Request business object . The business object represents an internal request for site logistics to prepare and perform within a certain time period an outbound inbound or internal site logistics process.

The business object uses a Confirm Site Logistics Request to Logistic Execution Control outbound process agent to invoke a Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation which notifies the planning system of a reconciliation of a site logistics request confirmation. The Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation notifies the planning system of a reconciliation of a site logistics request confirmation. The Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation generates a Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation Notification message . The message is received by a Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation . The Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation reconciles a site logistics requisition with its related site logistics request. The Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent to update the Site Logistics Requisition business object .

Alternatively the Confirm Site Logistics Request to Logistic Execution Control outbound process agent can invoke a Confirm Site Logistics Request operation which confirms receipt of the request and acknowledges quantities and delivery dates. The operation generates a Site Logistics Request Confirmation message which is sent to the Logistics Execution Control process component . The message is received by a Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation operation . The operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent to update the Site Logistics Requisition business object . A Site Logistics Processing Out interface includes the Confirm Site Logistics Request operation and the Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation .

The Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Site Logistics Processing In interface . The Site Logistics Processing In interface includes the Change Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation operation and the Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation .

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing at Business Partner and Payment Processing 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes the Payment Advice business object . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons. A Payment Advice Notification message is received from the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component by a Create Payment Advice operation . The operation is included in an Incoming Payment Advicing In interface . The Payment Processing process component receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Incoming Payment Advicing In interface receives information from the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component using the Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Create Payment Advice operation invokes a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Business Partner inbound process agent . The agent updates the Payment Advice business object with information about payments in transfer. The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component sends information to the Payment Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner Out XI communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. While XI represents Exchange Infrastructure any similar or suitable third party or proprietary toll may be used to perform the functions provided by or describe in relation to XI.

As shown in the Service Order Processing process component includes the Service Order business object . The Service Order business object represents an agreement between a service provider and a customer about the execution of services at a specific time and for a specific price. In addition the service order contains planning for personnel spare parts and other expenses that are used for providing the services. The Service Order Processing process component can request a creation update or cancellation of one or more invoices from the Customer Invoice Processing process component . The Customer Invoice Processing process component can confirm an execution of the requested action to the Service Order business object .

The Service Order business object uses a Request Invoicing from Service Order to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The Request Invoicing operation requests invoicing of a service order. The Request Invoicing operation can generate a Customer Invoice Request Request message and send the message to the Customer Invoice Processing process component .

The Customer Invoice Processing process component receives the message from the Service Order Processing process component . The message can be handled by a Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation creates updates deletes or cancels a customer invoice request. The operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update the Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

The Customer Invoice Processing process component can update the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to the customer. The Customer Invoice business object can use a Confirm Customer Invoice to Service Order Processing out bound process agent to invoke a Confirm Invoicing operation . The Confirm Invoicing operation confirms that customer invoicing has taken place. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The operation generates a Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message .

The message is received in the Service Order Processing process component where it is handled by a Change Service Order based on Customer Invoice operation . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Service Order based on Customer Invoice operation updates changes in the service order with data from the customer invoice. The operation uses a Change Service Order based on Customer Invoice inbound process agent to update the Service Order business object .

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes a Goods and Activity Confirmation business object . The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed inventory changes that occurred at a specific time.

The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in the Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked the operation generates the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

The Create Accounting Document operation receives the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message . The Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operations and are included in the Inventory and Activity Accounting In interface . The operations and use the Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. The Accounting Notification business object can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can contain the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

The Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object which is an order sent to a house bank to make a transfer or direct debit from a specified house bank account in order to complete an internal payment order.

An update to the Bank Payment Order business object triggers a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment to House Bank outbound process agent to create a file based bank payment order to House Bank. The outbound process agent invoke a Request File Based Payment Order operation . The operation is included in a Payment Ordering Out interface . The Request File based Payment Order operation sends a File Based Collective Payment Order Request message to the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Request File based Payment Order operation generates a File based Collective Payment Order Request message . The File based Collective Payment Order Request message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message that can be received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component receives information from the Payment Processing process component using a Payment Order Processing at House Bank communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Service Confirmation Processing process component includes the Service Confirmation business object . The Service Confirmation business object represents a record of services and spare parts that a service technician reports back after performing a service for a customer.

The Service Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Service Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Service Confirmation operation . The operation notifies Accounting process component about a creation change or deletion of a service confirmation. The Notify of Service Confirmation operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface . The operation generates and sends a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component .

A Create Accounting Notification operation handles the message . The operation receives order accounting notifications from various process components. The notification is to inform accounting about a creation change or deletion of any kind of order business objects. The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface . The operation can use a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Inventory Processing process component includes an Inventory business object . The Inventory business object represents a quantity of all the materials in a location including the material reservations at this location. A request for an inventory reconciliation triggers a Notify of Inventory Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent . The Notify of Inventory Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent invokes a Notify Planning of Inventory Reconciliation operation . The operation is included in an Inventory Reconciliation Out interface . The operation can send the inventory reconciliation to the Supply and Demand Planning process component . The operation sends a Planning View of Inventory Reconciliation Notification message to send the inventory reconciliation update.

The Supply and Demand Planning process component includes an Inventory Reconciliation In interface . The Inventory Reconciliation In interface includes a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation . The operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation inbound process agent to update the Planning View of Inventory business object .

The Customer Invoice Processing process component can request a creation or cancellation of accounting documents from the Accounting process component based on a creation or cancellation of a customer invoice.

The Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to transfer a created or cancelled invoice to the Accounting process component . If the Customer Invoice business object is created then the Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Invoice operation and an Invoice to Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component .

If the Customer Invoice business object is cancelled then the Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation and an Invoice cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component .

The message is handled in a Create Accounting Document operation . The operation creates an accounting document for a customer invoice or supplier invoice. The accounting document records payables receivables expenses and revenues for the invoice in financial accounting. The message is handled in a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The operation receives invoice accounting cancellation requests from the Customer Invoice Processing process component . The operations are included in an Invoice Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation can use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

As shown in the Service Order Processing process component includes the Service Order business object . The Service Order business object uses a Notify of Service Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Service Order operation . The operation notifies the Accounting process component about a creation change or deletion of a service order. The Notify of Service Order operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface . The operation generates and sends a Sales And Purchasing Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component .

The message is handled by a Create Accounting Notification operation . The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions between Process Components Service Request Processing at Requester and Service Request Processing 

A creation or update of a service request is triggered from a requester from an external process e.g. a service requester . For example the service request is maintained according to the data replicated from the external request. Some confirmations of the information exchange as well as updates on processing progress are provided back to the requester.

As shown in the Service Request Processing process component includes a Service Request business object . The Service Request business object represents a request from a customer to a service provider to solve an issue that the customer has with regard to a product. In addition to the description and the categorization of the issue the Service Request contains the documentation and the results of the resolution as well as the expenses incurred. A Service Request message invokes a Maintain Service Request operation . The Maintain Service Request operation is included in an External Providing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Service Request inbound process agent to update the Service Request business object . The Service Request business object uses a Confirm Service Request from Service Request Processing to Requester outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Service Request operation . The Confirm Service Request operation sends a Service Request Confirmation message or a Form Service Request Confirmation message to notify a requestor of the receipt of the service request.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Payment business object a Product Tax Declaration business object and a Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables and receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific rules and regulations that trigger the payment to the tax authority. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Payment business object uses a Synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke one or more operations including a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation and a Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation can request payment information with a provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation can request payment information with a change of provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Cancellation operation can register a change of a provisional payment to the last transactional or saved state.

If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Request message . If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . If the Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message .

The Due Payment business object also uses a Request Payment from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment operation or a Request Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in the Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment operation sends a request for payment to the Payment Processing process component . This confirms a previously made provisional payment. The Request Payment Cancellation operation cancels at least one provisional requested or ordered payment. If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Product Tax Declaration business object uses a Request Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Request Payment from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

As shown in a Create Payment Reservation operation receives the Payment Order Reservation Request message . The operation uses a synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to create change or cancel a payment order for a reservation request. The synchronous inbound process agent updates the Payment Order business object . The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. A payment order can be a collective order that includes several individual orders.

A synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation receives a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . The operation uses the synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object .

A Change Payment Reservation operation receives the Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message . A Create Payment Order operation receives the Payment Order Request message . A Cancel Payment Order operation receives the Payment Order Cancellation Request message . The operations and use a Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object . The Cancel Payment Order operation cancels a previously sent payment request by reference. The Create Payment Order operation cancels a request for payment. The operations and are included in a Payment Request In interface .

The Payment Order business object uses a Confirm Payment Request from Payment Order to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Payment Request operation . The operation confirms a processing status of a payment to a sender. The operation is included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Confirm Payment Request operation generates a Payment Order Confirmation message .

As shown in the Payment Order Confirmation message is received in a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation . The operation confirms the execution of a payment request or a payment request cancellation. The operation is included in a Payment Request In interface . The Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation uses a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Due Payment business object or the Tax Due Payment business object .

The Create Payment Reservation operation shown in sends a Payment Order Reservation Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message is a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation .

The Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation shown in sends a Payment Order Reservation Change Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message is a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation .

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object . The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Payment Processing at a Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke an Issue Bill of Exchange operation . The operation is included in a Bill of Exchange Receivable Issuing Output Out interface . The operation generates and sends a Form Bill of Exchange Receivable Issue Request message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

Interactions between Process Components Service Order Processing and Financial Accounting Master Data Management 

As shown in the Service Order Processing process component includes the Service Order business object . The Service Order business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Service Order to Financial Accounting Master Data outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Valuation operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface . The Request Product Valuation operation can request valuation by generating and sending a Product Resource Valuation Query message to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component .

The Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component receives the message where it is handled in a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation . The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation synchronously accesses price information of products and resources. The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation In interface . Upon receiving the Product and Resource Valuation Query message the operation can generate and send a Product and Response Valuation Response message back to the Service Order Processing process component . The operation uses a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource inbound process agent to update a Material Valuation Data business object a Service Product Valuation Data business object and a Resource Valuation Data business object .

The Material Valuation Data business object is an object containing attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a material or a material group for material inventory valuation and for cost estimation. The Service Product Valuation Data business object is an object containing attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a service product or a service product group and for cost estimation. The Resource Valuation Data business object is an object containing attributes and internal cost rates for the valuation of business transactions related to a resource and for cost estimation.

The Payment Processing process component includes a Payment Allocation business object . The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. In the Payment Processing process component a Request Clearing Maintenance from Payment Allocation to Due Item Processing outbound process agent uses a Request Clearing operation to send a Clearing Request message to request the clearing of payments within the Due Item Processing process component . Alternatively the outbound process agent may invoke a Request Clearing Cancellation operation to cancel a payment clearing using a Clearing Cancellation Request message . Both operations are included in a Clearing Out interface in the Payment Processing process component .

The messages are received in the Due Item Processing process component and handled in a Create Clearing operation and a Cancel Clearing operation respectively. The Create Clearing operation and the Cancel Clearing operation are included in a Clearing In interface . Upon creating or canceling clearing a Maintain Clearing inbound process agent may update the Tax Due Payment business object or the Due Payment business object or both.

A Confirm Clearing from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent may invoke a Confirm Clearing operation that sends a Clearing Confirmation message to the Payment Processing process component for a clearing request. A Confirm Clearing from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent may also invoke the Confirm Clearing operation . The operation is included in a Clearing Out interface . The message is received by a Change Payment Allocation Based on Clearing Request Confirmation operation that confirms the execution or rejection of a sent Clearing Request. The operation is included in a Clearing In interface . A Change Payment Allocation Based on Clearing Request Confirmation inbound process agent can update the Payment Allocation business object .

Interactions between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing and Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer 

The Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice Processing process component can inform the Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component about a creation or cancellation of the Customer Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component receives information from the Customer Invoice Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Customer Invoice Processing process component also includes a Notify Customer of Customer Invoice inbound process agent and a Notify of Invoice operation in an Invoicing Out interface . The Customer Invoice business object initiates the Notify of Invoice operation to fill billing document with data for customer usage. Upon completion of the operation the Notify of Customer Invoice operation generates and sends an Invoice Request message or a Form Invoice Request message . The Customer Invoice Processing process component sends information to the Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Invoicing Out interface sends information to the Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in a bank statement is created at a bank and a File based Bank Statement Notification message is created. The File based Bank Statement Notification message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Bank Statement Notification message that can be received by the Payment Processing process component . The Bank Statement Notification message is received in the Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Statement Processing In interface . The interface includes a Create Bank Statement operation for creating a bank statement in the Payment Processing process component . A Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent updates a House Bank Statement business object with a new or modified bank statement. For example the bank statement can be a statement for a house bank account where modifications are made when bills are paid. The House Bank Statement business object is a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

The Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . A Notify of Customer Invoice to Due Item Processing outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Invoice operation to inform the Due Item Processing process component about a customer invoice in order to derive payment due data. Alternatively a Notify Invoice Cancellation operation may be invoked to cancel the previously sent notification for receivables or payables due. Both operations are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface . If the Notify of Invoice operation is invoked then a Receivables Payables Notification message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component . If the Request Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked then the Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component .

If the notification message is received then a Create Receivables Payables operation is performed to create a trade and or tax receivable or payable. If the cancellation message is received then a Cancel Receivables Payables operation is performed to cancel a trade and or tax receivable or payable. The Create Receivables Payables operation and the Cancel Receivables Payables operation are included in a Receivables Payables In interface . Cancellations and updates may be sent by a Maintain Trade and Tax Receivables Payables inbound process agent to one or more of three business objects a Trade Receivables Payables Register business object a Tax Receivables Payables Register business object and a Due Clearing business object . The Trade Receivables Payables Register business object is a register for all trade receivables and payables from goods and services of a company from or to its business partners. The Tax Receivables Payables Register business object is a register of tax receivables and payables of a company that are due for delivered goods and rendered services between buyers and sellers consumption of goods the transfer of goods and or withheld from payments to sellers. The Due Clearing business object is group of receivables and payables for clearing.

Interactions between Process Components Logistics Execution Control and Outbound Delivery Processing 

The Logistics Execution Control process component includes the Logistics Execution Requisition business object . The Logistics Execution Requisition represents a requisition to Logistics to control trigger and monitor the execution of a logistic process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes an Outbound Delivery Request business object . The Outbound Delivery Request business object is a request to a vendor to compose goods for shipping. Upon a release of the Logistics Execution Requisition business object the Logistics Execution Control process component can request a creation or update of the Outbound Delivery Request business object . The Outbound Delivery Processing process component can confirm a delivery fulfillment to the Logistics Execution Control process component .

A Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Requisition to Outbound Delivery Processing outbound process agent invokes a Request Delivery Fulfillment operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The operation can send a Delivery Request Fulfillment Request message in order to update the Outbound Delivery Request business object .

The Delivery Fulfillment Request message is received by the Outbound Delivery Processing process component . The Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation that receives delivery fulfillment requests from the Logistics Execution Control process component . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation sends the requests into an Outbound Delivery Request business object using a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request inbound process agent .

Upon receipt of the inbound delivery request a Confirm Fulfillment of Outbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound delivery agent invokes a Confirm Fulfillment operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment operation sends confirmation data to the Logistics Execution Control process component using a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation message . The Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on the Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation included in a Fulfillment In interface to receive the Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation message . Using the received confirmation data the operation may then send updates or changes by way of a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation inbound process agent into the Logistics Execution Requisition business object .

The interaction starts when a payment is ordered received allocated or cancelled. The Payment Processing process component processes and manages payments received as well as the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks. In addition the Payment Processing process component provides input for liquidity management.

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Incoming Check business object a Check Deposit business object the Payment Order business object a House Bank Statement business object the Payment Allocation business object a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object a Bill of Exchange Deposit business object a Cash Transfer business object and a Payment Advice business object . The Incoming Check business object represents a check issued by a business partner payable to the company. The Check Deposit business object represents a deposit of checks at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. A payment order can be a collective order that contains several individual orders. The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance. The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object represents a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company. The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object represents a deposit of bills of exchange receivable at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Cash Transfer business object represents a company internal money transfer that includes payments from one house bank account to another house bank account transfer payments from one cash storage to another cash transfer payments from a cash storage to a house bank account cash deposit and or payments from a house bank account to a cash storage cash withdrawal . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons.

The Incoming Check business object uses a Notify of Payment from Incoming Check to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface .

The Check Deposit business object uses a Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Order business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The House Bank Statement business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Allocation business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Cash Transfer business object uses a Notify of Payment Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Advice business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Advice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Payment Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object represents the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The interaction starts when a payment or clearing for trade or tax receivables or payables is created or cancelled. The Due Item Processing process component notifies the Accounting process component about the creation or cancellation of the payment or clearing.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Clearing business object the Due Payment business object the Product Tax Declaration business object a Withholding Tax Declaration business object and the Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing. The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables or receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The Withholding Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of withholding tax payables of a company to a tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Clearing business object uses a Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface .

The Due Payment business object uses a Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Product Tax Declaration business object uses a Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Withholding Tax Declaration business object uses a Notify of Payment from to Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Notify of Payment operation is invoked if a VAT value added tax declaration is released. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

The Payment Accounting Notification message is received in a Create Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation handles the Payment Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation is included in a Payment Accounting In interface .

The Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is received in a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Cancel Accounting Document operation handles the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The Cancel Accounting Document operation is included in a Payment Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation both use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions between Process Components Service Order Processing and Customer Requirement Processing 

As shown in the Service Order Processing process component requests an availability check for spare parts from the Customer Requirement Processing process component based on a creation or update to the Service Order business object . The Service Order Processing process component can also request delivery or provision of the spare parts. Upon receiving the requests the Customer Requirement Processing process component notifies the Service Order Processing process component about a present availability of the requested parts and confirms the delivery or provision of the spare parts.

The Service Order Processing process component includes a Synchronous Request Product Availability from Service Order to Customer Requirement synchronous outbound process agent a Request Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment from Service Order to Customer Requirement outbound process agent and a Fulfillment Out interface .

The Fulfillment Out interface includes a Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation a Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation and a Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation .

The Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation requests product availability information including the creation of a provisional reservation for customer requirement e.g. a sales order . The Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation registers provisional requirement reservation for deletion and triggers deletion in case of failure or cancellation of transaction processing. The Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation requests reservation and fulfillment for customer requirement.

The Synchronous Request Product Availability from Service Order to Customer Requirement synchronous outbound process agent invokes the Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation to send a Product Available to Promise Check Request message to the Customer Requirement Processing process component . After transmitting the message the Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation receives a Product Available to Promise Check Confirmation message . Alternatively the operation invokes a Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation to send a Provisional Customer Requirement Delete Notification message to the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

The Request Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment from Service Order to Customer Requirement outbound process agent uses the Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation . The Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation sends a Customer Requirement Fulfillment Request message to the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

The Customer Requirement Processing process component includes a Fulfillment In interface a Check Availability and Reserve synchronous inbound process component a Maintain Customer Requirement inbound process component and a Customer Requirement business object . The Check Availability and Reserve synchronous inbound process component receives a request for a reserving ATP available to promise check and triggers the corresponding customer requirement services. The Maintain Customer Requirement inbound process component receives a customer requirement fulfillment request and updates the corresponding customer requirement instance. The Customer Requirement business object is a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. The business object can include quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates.

As shown in the Fulfillment In interface includes a Check Availability and Reserve operation a Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation and a Maintain Customer Requirement operation to create or update the Customer Requirement business object .

The Check Availability and Reserve operation checks the availability of certain amounts of certain materials and confirms this availability to the caller. Upon receiving the Product Available to Promise Check Request message the Check Availability and Reserve operation can confirm the reception of the message by sending the Product Available to Promise Check Confirmation message to the Service Order Processing process component . The operation also uses the Check Availability and Reserve synchronous inbound process agent to create or update the Customer Requirement business object .

The Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation receives the Provisional Customer Requirement Deletion Notification message . After receiving the message the operation uses the Maintain Customer Requirement inbound process agent to delete provisional customer requirements created by the Check Availability and Reserve operation .

The Maintain Customer Requirement operation receives the Customer Requirement Fulfillment Request message . The operation uses the Maintain Customer Requirement inbound process agent to create or change the Customer Requirement business object .

The Customer Requirement Processing process component also includes a Notify of Availability Update from Customer Requirement outbound process agent a Confirm Fulfillment of Customer Requirement outbound process agent and a Fulfillment Out interface . The Fulfillment Out interface includes a Notify of Availability Update operation and a Confirm Fulfillment operation .

The Notify of Availability Update operation notifies a creator of a customer requirement about an updated availability situation for the products requested within the customer requirement. The Confirm Fulfillment operation confirms partial or complete fulfillment of a customer requirement to a creator of the requirement. For example a fulfillment may be a fulfillment of some or all aspects of an order that can be achieved by logistics processes. It does not comprise other aspects e.g. financials.

The Notify of Availability Update from Customer Requirement outbound process agent uses the Notify of Availability Update operation to send the availability update notification to the Service Order Processing process component . The Notify of Availability Update operation transmits a Product Available to Promise Update Notification message to the Service Order Processing process component . The Confirm Fulfillment of Customer Requirement outbound process agent uses the Confirm Fulfillment operation to send the fulfillment confirmation to the Service Order Processing process component . The Confirm Fulfillment operation transmits a Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message to the Service Order Processing process component .

The Service Order Processing process component includes a Fulfillment In interface . The Fulfillment In interface includes a Change Service Order based on Product Availability Update operation and a Change Service Order based on Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation . The Change Service Order based on Product Availability Update operation receives the Product Available to Promise Update Notification message . Using a Change Service Order based on Customer Requirement inbound process agent the Change Service Order based on Product Availability Update operation updates the Service Order business object with spare part availability and reservation information based on customer requirement fulfillment planning data.

The Change Service Order based on Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation receives the Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message . The Change Service Order based on Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation uses the Change Service Order based on Customer Requirement inbound process agent to update the Service Order business object with spare part quantity delivered to customer or picked up by service technician.

Interactions between Process Components Customer Quote Processing and Financial Accounting Master Data Management 

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer quote business object . The Customer quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer can be legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time. The Customer quote business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Customer Quote to Financial Accounting Master Data outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Valuation operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface . The operation requests a product valuation.

The Request Product Valuation operation generates a Product and Resource Valuation Query message . The message is sent to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . The message is received by a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation In interface . The operation is a synchronous access to price information for products.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation uses a Synchronous Valuate and Product Resource inbound process agent to update one of a possible three business objects in the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component a Material Valuation Data business object a Service Product Valuation Data business object and a Resource Valuation Data business object . The Material Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a material or a material group for material inventory valuation and for cost estimation. The Service Product Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a service product or a service product group and for cost estimation. The Resource Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal cost rates for the valuation of business transactions related to a resource and for cost estimation.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation can generate a Product and Resource Valuation Response message . The message is sent to the Request Product Valuation operation in the Customer Quote Processing process component .

Interactions between Process Components Customer Quote Processing and Customer Requirement Processing 

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer quote business object . The Customer quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer is legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time. The Customer quote business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Availability from Customer Quote to Customer Requirements outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Availability Information operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The operation can request product availability information for customer quote items. The Request Product Availability Information operation generates a Product Availability Query message . The message is sent to the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

A synchronous Check Availability operation receives the Product Availability Query message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation uses a Check Availability inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The message is a non binding query for the availability of specified amounts of specified products at specified dates. The operation checks the availability of certain amounts of materials at certain dates and sends this information back to the Customer Quote Processing process component . The Customer Requirement business object represents a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. It can include the quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates.

The Check Availability operation may generate a Product Availability Response message . The message is received by the Request Product Availability Information operation in the Customer Quote Processing process component . The message is a non binding response about which amounts of products are available at which dates.

The Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Confirmation business object . The Site Logistics Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time e.g. inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations or progress status changes .

The Site Logistics Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent . The Accounting outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation to send an inventory change accounting notification to the Accounting process component . Alternatively a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation can be invoked. The operation can request inventory change and activity provision cancellation. Both operations are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface .

If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked then an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked then an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Cancellation Request message is sent to the Accounting process component .

If the notification message is received then a Create Accounting Document operation is performed. The operation can receive and handle an inventory change accounting notification. If the cancellation message is received then a Cancel Accounting Document operation is performed to cancel requests received. The operation can receive an inventory change accounting cancellation request. The operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting In interface . Cancellations and updates can be sent by a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction.

Interactions between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes the Outbound Delivery business object . The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are provided for shipping by a vendor. The business object uses a Notify of Outbound Delivery to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Outbound Delivery operation . The operation is included in a Delivery Notification Out interface . The Outbound Delivery Processing process component sends information using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Delivery Notification Out interface sends information to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Notify of Outbound Delivery operation generates a Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message and a Form Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message . The messages can be received by the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component . The Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component receives information from the Outbound Delivery Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Customer Invoice business object that represents a customer s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the customer returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods. A Notify of Customer Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent uses a Notify of Invoice operation to notify the Balance Of Foreign Payment Management process component about the foreign receivables payables of the customer invoice. Alternatively a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation can be used to notify the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component about the cancellation of a previously sent notification for foreign receivables payables of the customer invoice. Both operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message that can be sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message that can be sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component .

The messages and are received by a Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation and a Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation respectively which are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface . The Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message is received by the Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation which creates a foreign receivable or payable. The Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message is received by the Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation which cancels a foreign receivable or payable. Operations and use a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to create change or cancel a foreign receivable or payable in a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The Foreign Receivable Payable business object represents a receivable from or payable to a non resident business partner.

As shown in the Pricing Engine process component includes a Price and Tax Calculation business object and a Tax Calculation business object . The Price and Tax Calculation business object represents a summary of the determined price and tax components for a business case. The Tax Calculation business object represents a summary of the determined and calculated tax elements of a business case.

The Price and Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Price and Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Tax Calculation operation . The Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation outbound process agent to invoke the Request Product Tax Calculation operation to calculate the product tax for a current document. The operation requests a product tax calculation from the External Tax Calculation process component . The Request Product Tax Calculation operation is included in an External Tax Calculation Out interface . The Pricing Engine process component receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The External Tax Calculation Out interface receives information to the External Tax Calculation process component using the Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. The Request Product Tax Calculation operation generates an External Product Tax Calculation Request message or an External Product Tax Calculation Confirmation message . The messages can be received by the External Tax Calculation process component . The External Tax Calculation process component sends information to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions between Process Components Payment Authorization and Settlement Processing at Clearing House 

As shown in the Payment Authorization process component includes a Payment Card Payment Authorization business object . The Payment Card Payment Authorization business object represents an authorization for a payment made using a payment card. It includes payment information e.g. a description of goods services purchased an authorization request and the result of the authorization request based on a response from a clearing house .

The Payment Card Payment Authorization business object uses a Request Payment Card Payment Authorization outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment Authorization operation . The operation is included in a Payment Authorization Requesting Out interface . The Payment Authorization process component sends information to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Payment Authorization Requesting Out interface sends information to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component using a the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Request Product Availability Information operation can request a clearing house for authorization of a payment made by a payment card. The Request Product Availability Information operation generates a Payment Card Payment Authorization Request message . The message can be sent to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component . The Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component can send a Payment Card Payment Authorization Confirmation message which is received by the Request Payment Authorization operation . The Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component receives information from the Payment Authorization process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions between Process Components Due Item Processing and Due Item Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Dunning business object . The Dunning business object represents a reminder or demand from a company creditor to a business partner debtor to make a payment by a certain point in time.

The Dunning business object uses a Notify of Dunning to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Dunning operation . The operation is included in a Dunning Output Out interface . The operation can notify the business partner about outstanding payments. For example notification can involve sending a dunning letter or a payment reminder to the business partner changing the status of the dunning changes to Released. The operation generates a Form Dunning Notification message . The message can be sent to the Due Item Processing at Business Partner process component .

Interactions between Process Components Service Request Processing and Service Request Processing at Provider 

As shown in the Service Request Processing process component includes a Service Request business object . The Service Request business object uses a Request Service from Service Request to Provider outbound process agent to invoke a Request Service operation . The operation is included in an External Requesting Out interface . The operation generates and sends a Service Request message to the Service Request Processing at Provider process component .

A Service Request Confirmation message is received by a Change Service Request based on Provider Confirmation operation . The operation in included in an External Requesting In interface . The operation invokes a Change Service Request Based on Provider Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Service Request business object .

As shown in the Service Request Processing process component includes the Service Request business object . The Service Request business object represents a request from a customer to a service provider to solve an issue that the customer has with regard to a product. In addition to the description and the categorization of the issue the Service Request business object contains the documentation and the results of the resolution as well as the expenses incurred. The Service Request business object uses a Request Invoicing from Service Request to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation requests invoicing of services provided and spare parts consumed based on information in the service request. The Request Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The Request Invoicing operation sends a Customer Invoice Request Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing process component .

A Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation receives the message . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation creates updates or cancels a customer invoice request. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

A Customer Invoice business object uses a Confirm Customer Invoice to Service Request Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Invoicing operation . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer. The Confirm Invoicing operation confirms that invoicing has taken place. The Confirm Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The operation sends a Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message to the Service Request Processing process component .

A Change Service Request based on Customer Invoice operation receives the Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message . The Change Service Request based on Customer Invoice operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The Change Service Request based on Customer Invoice operation updates a service request based on information from related customer invoices. The operation uses a Change Service Request based on Customer Invoice inbound process agent to update the Service Request business object .

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

