---

title: Microcavity plasma devices with non-uniform cross-section microcavities
abstract: An embodiment of the invention IS an array of microcavity plasma devices The array includes a first metal film electrode with a plurality of non-uniform cross-section microcavities therein that are encapsulated in oxide A second electrode is a thin metal foil encapsulated in oxide that is bonded to the first electrode A packaging layer contains gas or vapor in the non-uniform cross-section microcavities To make such device, photoresist is patterned to encapsulate the anodized foil or film except on a top surface at desired positions of microcavities A second anodization or electrochemical etching is conducted to form the non-uniform cross-section sidewall microcavities cavities After removing photoresist and metal oxide, a final anodization lines the walls of the microcavities with metal oxide and fully encapsulates the metal electrodes with metal oxide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08456086&OS=08456086&RS=08456086
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08456086
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081027
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 000 389 which was filed on Oct. 25 2007.

This invention was made with government support under contract number FA9550 07 1 0003 awarded by Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is microcavity plasma devices also known as microdischarge devices and arrays of microcavity plasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices produce a nonequilibrium low temperature plasma within and essentially confined to a cavity having a characteristic dimension d below approximately 500 m. This new class of plasma devices exhibits several properties that differ substantially from those of conventional macroscopic plasma sources. Because of their small physical dimensions microcavity plasmas normally operate at gas or vapor pressures considerably higher than those accessible to macroscopic devices. For example microplasma devices with a cylindrical microcavity having a diameter of 200 300 m or less are capable of operation at rare gas as well as Nand other gases tested to date pressures up to and beyond one atmosphere.

Work done by University of Illinois researchers is disclosed in U.S. Published Application Number 20070170866 to Eden et al. which is entitled Arrays of Microcavity Plasma Devices with Dielectric Encapsulated Electrodes. That application discloses microcavity plasma devices and arrays with thin foil metal electrodes protected by metal oxide dielectric. The devices and arrays disclosed are based upon thin foils of metal that are available or can be produced in arbitrary lengths such as on rolls. A method of manufacturing disclosed in the application discloses a first electrode pre formed with microcavities having the desired cross sectional geometry. Pre formed screen like metal foil e.g. Al screens used in the battery industry can be used with the disclosed methods. Oxide is subsequently grown on the foil including on the inside walls of the microcavities where plasma is to be produced by wet electrochemical processing anodization of the foil. As disclosed in the application providing a metal thin foil with microcavities includes either fabricating the cavities in metal foil by any of a variety of processes laser ablation chemical etching etc. or obtaining a metal thin foil with pre fabricated microcavities from a supplier. A wide variety of microcavity shapes and cross sectional geometries can be formed in metal foils according to the method disclosed in the application.

More recent work by University of Illinois researchers discloses buried circumferential electrode microcavity plasma device arrays and a self patterned wet chemical etching formation method including controlled interconnections between. These results are disclosed in Eden et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 880 698 filed Jul. 24 2007 entitled Buried Circumferential Electrode Microcavity Plasma Device Arrays and Self Patterned Formation Method which has been published as WO 08 013 820 on Jan. 31 2008 and as US 2008 0185579 on Aug. 7 2008. In a disclosed method of formation in that application a metal foil or film is obtained or formed with microcavities such as through holes and the foil or film is anodized to form metal oxide. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference a ring if the cavity shape is circular around each microcavity and can be electrically isolated or connected. Prior to processing microcavities such as through holes of the desired shape are produced in a metal electrode e.g. a foil or film . The electrode is subsequently anodized so as to convert virtually all of the electrode into a dielectric normally an oxide . The anodization process and microcavity placement determines whether adjacent microcavities in an array are electrically connected or not.

Microcavity plasma devices fabricated in the metal metal oxide structures described above are inexpensive flexible and durable. Self assembly processes can be used to automatically form the buried electrodes via anodization as described above. However prior microcavity plasma devices formed by semiconductor fabrication techniques in semiconductors and other materials have offered more control over the cross sectional geometry shape of the microcavities than the anodization processes provided prior to the present invention. A tapered microcavity is provided in Eden et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 918 Sep. 26 2006 which is entitled Microdischarge Devices and Arrays Having Tapered Microcavities. The tapered microcavity provides operational advantages including improved extraction of light produced by plasma generated within the microcavity. However the angle of the tapered sidewall of microcavities in silicon for example is fixed by the crystalline structure of the semiconductor.

An embodiment of the invention is an array of microcavity plasma devices having microcavities controllable non uniform cross sections. The array includes a first electrode that is a thin metal foil or film having a plurality of non uniform cross section sidewall microcavities therein each of which is encapsulated in oxide. A second electrode is a thin metal foil encapsulated in oxide that is bonded to the first electrode the oxide preventing contact between the first and second electrodes. A packaging layer seals discharge medium a gas or vapor into the microcavities.

A method for forming an array of microcavity plasma devices begins with pre anodizing a metal foil or thin film. Photoresist is patterned onto the anodized metal foil or film to encapsulate the anodized foil or film except on a top surface at the desired positions of microcavities. A second anodization is then conducted to form the microcavities with sidewall profiles that can be controlled precisely.

The present invention provides an improved variation of the methods and devices disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 880 698 incorporated by reference herein that allows the formation of microcavity plasma devices and arrays having microcavities with controllable sidewall profiles. The non vertical sidewall microcavities in arrays of the invention can have various predetermined shapes and are formed by a variation of the wet chemical process disclosed in the 698 application. The entire process of forming the microcavities and wiring them producing electrodes and interconnections can be realized in an inexpensive wet chemical process. In the present invention the cross sectional geometry of the microcavities can be continuously varied from a bowl concave shape to a pure linear taper. Fabrication methods of the invention can be controlled to produce a predetermined desired shape in the sidewall of the microcavity. This ability to produce a predetermined shape has been previously provided to a limited degree in microcavity plasma devices fabricated by semiconductor fabrication techniques but not in the inexpensive arrays of microcavity plasma device arrays fabricated in metal metal oxide structures. See Eden et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 918 Sep. 26 2006 which is entitled Microdischarge Devices and Arrays Having Tapered Microcavities.

The present invention extends the advantages offered by the tapered microcavities in the 918 patent to the metal metal oxide device arrays that are formed by inexpensive wet chemical formation processes. Microcavity plasma device arrays of the invention provide advantages for tailoring and optimizing emission and the operating characteristics of the array of microcavities. The ability to produce microcavities having a predetermined sidewall shape allows for tailoring and optimizing the efficiency and operating parameters excitation voltage frequency gas pressure etc. of an array of microplasma devices. Another benefit of controlling the cross sectional profile of the microcavity is the ability to optimize extraction of photons produced by the microplasma from the microcavity.

In addition tapered sidewall microcavities provide a large positive differential resistance that decreases power consumption while improving the linearity of the V I characteristics. This characteristic permits self ballasting of the devices and simplifies external control circuitry. The thin sheet metal metal oxide arrays reported prior to the invention offer many advantages including ease of fabrication transparency and flexibility. These advantages are retained by arrays of the invention which also provide the advantages offered by non uniform cross section microcavities. Microdischarge devices with tapered cavities also exhibit an increase in surface area relative to a conventional planar structure thereby enabling modification of the electrical properties of devices. In addition increased output radiant efficiencies are obtained by coating the tapered side walls with an optically reflective conductive coating or a coating with a relatively small work function. Arrays of non uniform cross section microcavity plasma devices produce higher output power and exhibit ignition characteristics superior to those of otherwise similar arrays with uniform cross section microcavities having vertical sidewalls. The primary reason for this improved performance is the ability to shape the cavity sidewalls so as to optimize the electrical field profile within the microcavity.

An example embodiment array of microcavity devices of the invention includes a first electrode the first electrode being a thin metal foil having a plurality of non uniform cross section microcavities therein that are encapsulated in oxide. A second electrode is a thin metal foil encapsulated in oxide that is bonded to the first electrode and the oxide prevents contact between the first and second electrodes. A packaging layer seals the discharge medium a gas or vapor or mixture thereof into the microcavities. Exemplary microcavities include microcavities having bowl style sidewalls or sidewalls with linear tapers. The microcavities in preferred embodiment arrays of microcavity devices have a predetermined desired sidewall shape.

A preferred embodiment fabrication process of the invention includes pre anodization of a metal foil or thin film. The parameters of the pre anodization determine the thickness of the metal oxide formed in pre anodization which is the primary factor determining the shape of the resulting microcavity. After pre anodization photoresist PR is patterned onto the anodized metal foil or film to encapsulate the partially anodized foil or film except on the top surface at the desired positions of microcavities. Encapsulating the foil or film with photoresist including the back side and edges ensures that a second anodization of the foil will not occur uniformly with respect to the front and rear surfaces of the foil. A second anodization is then conducted to form microcavities having a desired sidewall shape. The microcavities form with non uniform cross section because anodization from the rear surface of the foil has been blocked by the PR coating. The exact shape of the cavity produced is a function of the foil thickness initial anodization time and hence oxide thickness and the second anodization time.

Devices of the invention are amenable to mass production techniques which may include for example roll to roll processing to bond together the first and second thin layers with buried electrodes. Embodiments of the invention provide for large arrays of microcavity plasma devices that can be made inexpensively because they are literally fabricated from aluminum foil by wet chemical processing. Also exemplary devices of the invention are formed from thin layers that are flexible and are at least partially transparent in the visible region of the spectrum.

The structure of preferred embodiment microcavity plasma devices of the invention is based upon foils or films of metal that are available or can be produced in arbitrary lengths such as on rolls. In a method of the invention a pattern of microcavities is produced in a metal foil that is subsequently anodized thereby resulting in microcavities in a metal oxide rather than the metal with each microcavity surrounded in a plane transverse to the microcavity axis by a buried metal electrode. During device operation the metal oxide protects the microcavity and electrically isolates the electrode from the plasma within the microcavity.

A second metal foil is also encapsulated with oxide and can be bonded to the first encapsulated foil. The second metal foil forms a second electrode s . For one preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention no particular alignment is necessary during bonding of the two encapsulated foils. In another embodiment of the invention the second electrode comprises an array of thin parallel metal lines buried in the metal oxide. The entire array comprising two metal oxide sheets with buried electrodes can be sealed with thin glass quartz or even plastic windows for example with the desired gas or gas mixture sealed within.

Preferred materials for the metal electrodes and metal oxide are aluminum and aluminum oxide Al AlO . Another exemplary metal metal oxide material system is titanium and titanium dioxide Ti TiO . Other metal metal oxide materials systems will be apparent to artisans. Preferred material systems permit the formation of microcavity plasma device arrays of the invention by inexpensive mass production techniques such as roll to roll processing.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention. The preferred embodiment devices and methods of fabrication discussed concern Al AlOarrays of microcavity plasma devices but other metal and metal oxides can also be used such as titanium and titanium dioxide.

In a metal foil is provided and the foil is pre anodized in to form a coating of metal oxide . It is important to note that although the metal oxide is referred to as a coating on the foil in reality a portion of the foil has been converted chemically into an oxide. A typical experimental process used an Al foil of about 30 m thickness although foils with thicknesses above 120 m have also been processed successfully. The pre anodization of is important in determining the shape of the resultant microcavities that are formed later. With metal foils of about 30 m experiments successfully used a pre anodization time of as little as about 1 min. and up to about 1 hour. Typically the pre anodization process occurred in 0.3 M oxalic acid at a temperature of 15 C. and a voltage of 40 V. The thickness of the metal oxide AlOin the experiments formed by pre anodization is a primary factor determining the shape of the resulting microcavities. In photoresist is patterned onto the metal oxide by completely encapsulating the metal metal oxide sheet except on the top surface at the desired positions of microcavities to be formed. Coating the back side and edges of the foil with photoresist ensures that a second anodization of the foil will not occur uniformly with respect to the front and rear surfaces of the foil.

After the photoresist is patterned and openings are produced in the underlying metal oxide by etching the anodization process is continued in until the foil is breached beneath each of the openings in the photoresist and microcavities are formed in the foil . The microcavities are formed in the foil with a non uniform cross section as indicated by sidewalls in . shows a cross section of the foil that remains after the photoresist and metal oxide of have been removed by etching. Much of the original metal is gone having been converted into metal oxide. The microcavity sidewalls are not vertical because anodization from the rear surface of the foil was blocked during the process of by the photoresist coating. Hence a non symmetrical anodization occurs. The photoresist and metal oxide of are readily removed by etching in appropriate acids respectively leaving behind the metal layer having microcavities with the desired shape. Although the drawing of and F implies that the cavity sidewalls are linear that need not be the case. The precise profile of the microcavity sidewall is determined by the thickness of the metal oxide layer in and the anodization time in . illustrates qualitatively the continuous variation in microcavity sidewall profiles that is obtainable by the processing sequence of . Extensive testing of the process and inspection of the resulting cavities with optical and electron microscopes has shown that arrays exhibit uniform emission and the V I characteristics have a positive slope that eliminates the need for external ballasting

In addition to the breadth of cavity shapes that is achievable with this invention the cavity sidewall morphology is extremely smooth. Measurements show that the RMS roughness of the microcavities of formed by process sequence A D is well under 1 m. If the thin metal sheet of is anodized one final time one obtains the microcavity array shown in cross section in . The microcavities have a cross sectional profile determined by the process steps of but in the metal electrode s are now buried in metal oxide . In fact the electrode s are all that remain of the original metal foil of . It must be emphasized that the microcavity geometry and sidewall profile of have been preserved in . The change from is that the wet chemical anodization process has converted most of the metal into metal oxide so that metal oxide now lines the wall of the microcavity.

The electrode s associated with the microcavities of can be interconnected in patterns that are controllable. The degree of anodization and the microcavity spacing determine the patterning of electrode interconnections between microcavities that occurs automatically during the course of anodization. The anodization process and microcavity placement determine whether adjacent microcavities in an array are electrically connected or not.

As seen in the thickness of the electrode is the largest in proximity to a microcavity but decreases away from the microcavity. Although not seen in the cross section of each electrode surrounds each respective microcavity and is azimuthally symmetric if the cavities have a circular cross section . Also the layer of metal oxide dielectric exists between the inner edge of electrode and the wall of the microcavities .

The exact shape of the microcavities produced in the foil by the processes of is a function of the foil thickness initial anodization time and hence oxide thickness and second anodization time. In an experimental example microcavities were formed with a slightly curved taper. In other experiments bowl shaped parabolic microcavities were formed. As one example microcavities formed in Al AlOhad an upper aperture with a diameter of 135 5 m whereas the diameter of the aperture at the base of the microcavities was 76 4 m. The uncertainty in each measurement represents one standard deviation.

Optical micrographs were recorded of 50 160 arrays of microcavities devices fabricated with 2 min. of initial anodization. In fabricating these devices 50 50 msquare apertures were opened in the photoresist as shown in . After anodization however the microcavities formed are circular when viewed from above. Consequently once the foil is finally anodized two circles associated with each microcavity could be seen in plan view SEM images. The larger diameter of the two was the upper aperture of the microcavity and the smaller diameter is the lower aperture or back side of the cavity. Other images taken of completed microcavities with buried and self patterned electrodes showed that the electrodes do indeed surround each microcavity and are disposed in a plane that is generally perpendicular to the axis of the microcavities.

The packaging layers can be selected from a wide range of suitable materials which can be completely transparent to emission wavelengths produced by the microplasmas or can for example filter the output wavelengths of the microcavity plasma device array so as to transmit radiation only in specific spectral regions. Example materials include thin glass quartz or plastic layers. The discharge medium can be at or near atmospheric pressure permitting the use of a very thin glass or plastic layer because of the small pressure differential across the packaging layers and which can also be a single layer that surrounds the entire array. Polymeric vacuum packaging such as that used in the food industry to seal various food items can also be used as a packaging layer.

It is within each microcavity that a plasma discharge will be produced. The first and second electrodes are spaced apart a distance from each other by the respective thicknesses of their oxide layers. The oxide thereby isolates the first and second electrodes from one another and additionally isolates each electrode from the discharge medium plasma contained in the microcavities . This arrangement permits the application of a time varying AC RF bipolar or pulsed DC etc. potential between the electrodes to excite the gaseous or vapor medium to create a microplasma in each microcavity .

The benefit of patterning the electrode is that the capacitance of the array is reduced dramatically. Furthermore the structure of allows for addressing of individual microcavities. shows another array of microcavity plasma devices that includes a second electrode that provides for addressing of individual microcavities in the array . The second electrode can be formed by photolithography followed by uniform from both sides of a metal foil anodization or can be formed by anodizing a patterned foil that has holes formed by conventional methods.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

