---

title: Stacked mechanical nanogenerator comprising piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructures and Schottky conductive contacts
abstract: An electric power generator includes a first conductive layer, a plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures, a second conductive layer and a plurality of conductive nanostructures. The first conductive layer has a first surface from which the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures extend. The second conductive layer has a second surface and is parallel to the first conductive layer so that the second surface faces the first surface of the first conductive layer. The conductive nanostructures depend downwardly therefrom. The second conductive layer is spaced apart from the first conductive layer at a distance so that when a force is applied, the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures engage the conductive nanostructures so that the piezoelectric nanostructures bend, thereby generating a potential difference across the at semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and also thereby forming a Schottky barrier between the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and the conductive nanostructures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08003982&OS=08003982&RS=08003982
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08003982
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 608 865 filed Dec. 11 2006 which was a non provisional of the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Ser. No. 60 752 558 filed Dec. 20 2005 Ser. No. 60 759 637 filed on Jan. 18 2006 Ser. No. 60 795 734 filed Apr. 28 2006 and Ser. No. 60 796 442 filed May 1 2006 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with support from the U.S. Government under grant number DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electrical generators and more specifically to an electrical generator that employs a stack of piezoelectric semiconducting structures to convert mechanical energy into electrical energy.

A Schottky barrier is a metal semiconductor junction that rectifies current and thus may be used as a diode. A metal semiconductor junction that does not rectify current is called an Ohmic contact. The rectifying properties of a metal semiconductor junction depend on the metal s work function the band gap of the intrinsic semiconductor and the type and concentration of dopants in the semiconductor.

A piezoelectric material is one that forms an electrical potential difference between two regions of the material when the material is subjected to uneven mechanical forces. For example when certain piezoelectric materials are bent they develop a positive voltage in one region and a negative voltage in another region.

Many micro scale and nano scale machines have been proposed for such uses as in vitro medical devices. However most of these machines are limited by the size of the power source that drives them. Specifically many such designs rely on chemical batteries to supply electrical power to the devices. Therefore they can be no smaller than the battery used and are useful only so long as the battery is able to provide power.

Semiconducting and piezoelectric nanowires have exciting potential in applications of electronics optoelectronics sensors and the in situ biological sciences.

However some of such devices need to be operational for long periods rather than be limited by the lifespan of a battery. Also it may be extremely difficult to change the batteries in some devices such as environmental sensors.

Therefore there is a need for electrical generators that are capable of providing power for long periods and that are driven by environmentally available mechanical energy.

Therefore the is a need for a generator employing semiconducting and piezoelectric nanowires to harvest energy from environmental conditions.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is an electric power generator that includes a first conductive layer a plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures a second conductive layer and a plurality of conductive nanostructures. The first conductive layer has a first surface. The plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures extends upwardly from the first surface. The second conductive layer has a second surface and is disposed parallel to the first conductive layer so that the second surface faces the first surface of the first conductive layer. The plurality of conductive nanostructures depends downwardly from the second surface. The second conductive layer is spaced apart from the first conductive layer at a distance so that when a force is applied to at least one of the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures engages at least one of the plurality of conductive nanostructures so that the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures bends thereby generating a potential difference across the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and also thereby forming a Schottky barrier between the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and the at least one of the conductive nanostructures.

In another aspect the invention is a stacked electric power generator that includes a first conductive layer a second conductive layer and a plurality of intermediate conductive layers. The first conductive layer has a first surface and a plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures extend upwardly from the first surface. The second conductive layer has a second surface and is disposed parallel to the first conductive layer so that the second surface faces the first surface of the first conductive layer. A plurality of conductive nanostructures depends downwardly from the second surface. The plurality of intermediate conductive layers is disposed between the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer. Each intermediate conductive layer has an downwardly facing surface facing the first conductive layer and an upwardly facing surface facing the second conductive layer. A plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures extends upwardly from each upwardly facing surface and a plurality of conductive nanostructures depends downwardly from the downwardly facing surface. The first conductive layer the second conductive layer and each of the plurality of intermediate conductive layers is spaced apart so at a distance so that when a force is applied to at least one of the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures engages at least one of the plurality of conductive nanostructures so that the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures bends thereby generating a potential difference across the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and also thereby forming a Schottky barrier between the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and the at least one of the conductive nanostructures.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making an electric power generator in which a plurality of generating units is created. Each generating unit created by growing a plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures extending upwardly from a first surface of a first conductive layer and growing a plurality of conductive nanostructures depending downwardly from a second surface of the first conductive layer thereby creating a generating unit. A plurality of generating units to form stacked generating units. In the stacked generating units each second conductive layer of a first generating unit is spaced apart from the first conductive layer of a second generating unit at a distance so that when a force is applied to at least one of the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures engages at least one of the plurality of conductive nanostructures. This results in the bending of at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures thereby generating a potential difference across the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and also thereby forming a Schottky barrier between the at least one of the semiconducting piezoelectric nanostructures and the at least one of the conductive nanostructures.

In another aspect the invention is a generator for harvesting electrical energy from a pulsed source of mechanical energy that includes a conductive substrate a plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric wires an elastic and insulating polymer film and a metal layer. The plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric wires extends upwardly from the conductive substrate. The elastic and insulating polymer film is infiltrated into the plurality of semiconducting piezoelectric wires. The polymer film has a thickness so that a top portion of the semiconducting piezoelectric wires extend beyond the polymer film. The metal layer is disposed on the polymer film and is in electrical contact with the top portion of the semiconducting piezoelectric wires.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of making a generator in which a layer of piezoelectric semiconducting film is applied on a conductive substrate. The piezoelectric semiconducting film is annealed at a preselected temperature to form a textured piezoelectric semiconducting film. A plurality of aligned piezoelectric semiconducting nanowires is grown from the textured piezoelectric semiconducting film. A layer of an insulative and elastic polymer is infiltrated into the piezoelectric semiconducting nanowires. The layer of insulative and elastic polymer is etched so as to expose tips of the piezoelectric semiconducting nanowires. A metal layer is deposited onto the layer of insulative and elastic polymer so that the metal layer is in contact with the tips of the piezoelectric semiconducting nanowires.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 586 095 and 7 220 310 both issued to Wang et al. disclose methods of making nanowires that may be used in the embodiments disclosed below and therefore these patents are incorporated herein by reference.

As shown in in one embodiment of a generator a semiconductor piezoelectric structure having a first end and an opposite second end extends from a substrate . The semiconductor piezoelectric structure could include a nanostructure such as a nanowire a nano rod a nano belt or a nano tube. One representative nanostructure could include a zinc oxide structure as a zinc oxide crystal exhibits both the property of being piezoelectric and of acting as a semiconductor.

When a conductive contact e.g. a probe tip of an atomic force microscope applies a force in the direction of the arrow the semiconductor piezoelectric structure bends thereby creating a potential difference is created between a first side which is on the compressed side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and a second side which is on the decompressed side . When the conductive contact touches the second side which has a positive potential relative to the first side a reverse biased Schottky barrier is formed between the conductive contact and the second side . Because the Schottky barrier is reverse biased no current flows between the conductive contact and the semiconductor piezoelectric structure . However as the conductive contact moves across the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and reaches the first side which has a negative potential relative to the second side the Schottky barrier between the conductive contact and the semiconductor piezoelectric structure becomes forward biased and current is allowed to flow through the Schottky barrier.

Zinc oxide ZnO exhibits both semiconducting and piezoelectric properties. One embodiment of an electric generator employs aligned ZnO nano wire arrays for converting nano scale mechanical energy into electric energy. The operating mechanism of the electric generator relies on the coupling of piezoelectric and semiconducting dual properties of ZnO as well as the rectifying function of the Schottky barrier formed between the metal tip and the nano wire . This approach has the potential of converting biological mechanical energy acoustic or ultrasonic vibration energy and biofluid hydraulic energy into electricity which may result in self powering of wireless nanodevices and nanosystems. These embodiments employ nano wires NWs and nano belts NBs including wurtzite structured materials such as ZnO GaN and ZnS to create self powering devices and systems which could be built at the nanoscale .

One experimental embodiment employed mechanical manipulation of a single ZnO wire belt by a probe coupled to an atomic force microscope AFM . By selecting a long ZnO wire belt that was large enough to be seen under an optical microscope one end of the ZnO wire was affixed on a silicon substrate by silver paste while the other end was left free. The substrate was an intrinsic silicon therefore its conductivity was relatively low. The wire was laid horizontally on the substrate however it was spaced apart from the substrate by a small distance to eliminate friction except at the affixed end . The measurements were performed by an AFM using a Silicon tip coated with platinum film which had a tetrahedral shape with an apex angle of 70 was 14 m in height and had a spring constant of 1.42 N m. The measurements were done in AFM contact mode under a constant normal force of 5 nN between the tip and the sample surface with a scan area of 70 70 m.

Both the topography feed back signal from the scanner and the corresponding output voltage V images across a load were recorded simultaneously when the AFM tip was scanned across a wire or a belt. The topography image reflected the change in normal force perpendicular to the substrate which showed a bump only when the tip scans over the wire. The output voltage between the conductive tip and the ground was continuously monitored as the tip scanned over the wire or the belt. No external voltage was applied in any stage of the experiment.

The AFM tip was scanned line by line at a speed of 105.57 m s perpendicular to the wire either from above the top end to the lower part of the wire or from the lower part towards the top end. For a wire with a hexagonal cross section three characteristic features were observed. When the tip scanned above the top end of the wire without touching the wire the output voltage signal was nothing but noise. When the tip scanned until it touched the top end of the wire a spark output voltage signal was observed. The output voltage is negative for the load Rfor almost all of the observed cases indicating the tip has a lower potential than the grounded silver paste. When the tip scanned down along the wire it deflected the wire but could not go over it and the output voltage showed no peak but noise.

When subjected to a displacement force one side of the nano wire was stretched and the other side was compressed. The observed results are summarized as follows First piezoelectric discharge was observed for both wire and belt and it occurred only when the AFM tip touched the end of the bent wire belt. Second the piezoelectric discharge occurred only when the AFM tip touched the compressed side of the wire belt and there was no voltage output if the tip touched the stretched side of the wire belt. Third the piezoelectric discharge gives negative output voltage as measured from the load R. Finally while viewing a topography image it was noticed that the voltage output event occurred when the AFM tip was about finished crossing the width of the wire belt which means that the discharge event was delayed to the last half of the contact between the tip and the wire belt .

In order to explain the observed phenomena we now examine the potential distribution in the wire belt based on piezoelectric induced potential distribution. We simply consider the polarization introduced in a belt as a result of elastic deformation. The relationship between strain and the local piezo electric field is given by dE where d is the piezoelectric coefficient. For a belt of thickness T and length L under the displacement of an external force F from the AFM tip applied perpendicularly at the top of the belt z L a strain field in the belt would be formed. For any segment of the belt along its length the local bending is described by its local curvature 1 R R is the local radius for describing the bending of the belt which is related to the shape of the belt by 

Examining the contact between the AFM conductive tip with the stretched and compressed side surfaces of the belt shows that the compressed side of the semiconductor ZnO wire belt has negative potential V and the stretched side has positive potential V . This is the cause of the two distinct transport processes across the Schottky barrier at the interface as described below. When the tip contacts the stretched side surface the Pt metal tip has a potential of nearly zero V 0 the metal tip belt interface is negatively biased for V V V0. The interface is thus a positively biased Schottky diode and it is possible to have current flow from the tip through the belt . The flow of electrons is to neutralize the piezoelectric ionic charges distributed in volume resulting in a sudden increase in the output electric current. The output voltage measured on the load is negative in reference to the grounded root of the belt with consideration the flowing direction of the current.

The elastic deformation energy as created by the displacement force F is mainly dissipated in three ways creating mechanical resonance vibration after releasing the belt generating piezoelectric discharge energy for each cycle of the vibration and overcoming the friction and viscosity if any from the environmental and substrate. The mechanical resonance of the belt may continue for many cycles but it is eventually damped by the viscosity of the medium. The piezoelectric voltage output is generated in each cycle of the vibration but the AFM tip in the experimental design may be too slow to collect the electric signal output from each cycle of the belt vibration. It was found that the discharge signal can sometimes be collected for an extensive period of time during which the belt may have resonated for over 10 cycles producing a continuous and constant output DC voltage. As the resonance frequency of the wire was about 10 KHz and the scanning speed of the tip was about 10 m s it is feasible that the wire had contacted the AFM probe tip over 100 times before it departed to the point that it was too far away to make contact. It was observed that a piezoelectric output voltage is created in each cycle of vibration. Thus a DC power source can be created by continuously collecting the output voltage.

There is current flow only when the AFM tip is in contact with the compressed side of the belt wire. If the AFM probe tip contacts the stretched side no output current is possible even under extremely large elastic deformation. This expected result was observed where a ZnO wire was subjected to a large deformation but no output voltage was received.

By deflecting a wire belt using a conductive AFM tip in contact mode the energy was first created by the deflection force and stored by piezoelectric potential and later converted into piezo electric energy. The mechanism of the generator is the result of coupled semiconducting and piezoelectric properties of ZnO. The piezoelectric effect is required to create electric potential of ionic charges from elastic deformation the semiconducting property is required to preserve the charges and then release the potential via the rectifying behavior of the Schottky barrier at the metal ZnO interface which serves as a switch in the entire process. The good conductivity of ZnO makes current flow possible. This process may also be possible for wurtzite structured materials such as GaN and ZnS.

A second embodiment of a generator is shown in in which a first conductive contact is disposed at the first end and a second conductive contact is disposed at the second end . The second conductive contact could be either placed against the semiconductor piezoelectric structure or placed against the substrate if the substrate is made of a conductive material. A load is coupled between the first conductive contact and the second conductive contact so that when a force is applied to the first end in direction F a current I flows through the load .

A third embodiment is shown in . In this embodiment the first conductive contact has an uneven surface. As a downward force is applied to the first conductive contact as shown in part of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure makes contact with the first conductive contact . This causes the semiconductor piezoelectric structure to bend and a potential difference forms between the two sides of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure . Initially as shown in only the positive side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure is in contact with the first conductive contact which creates a reverse biased Schottky barrier through which no current flows. However once the first conductive contact has been pushed down far enough the negative side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure makes contact with the first conductive contact thereby forming a forward biased Schottky barrier and allowing current to flow through the load . The fact that the positive side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure may still be touching the first conductive contact makes no difference since the Schottky barrier between the positive side and the first conductive contact is still reverse biased and therefore no current will flow through the positive side.

The device in the forward biased state has an energy band gap diagram as shown in in which the conduction energy level E of the compressed side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure which is ZnO in the example presented is greater than the Fermi energy E of the metal. Given that a negative potential V exists between the metal and the compressed side current is able to flow from the metal to the semiconductor piezoelectric structure using the convention that current represents the flow of charge from positive to negative across the Schottky barrier . When the metal is in contact with the stretched side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure as shown in the conduction energy level E of the compressed side is not greater than the Fermi energy E of the metal and since the stretched side has a positive potential relative to the potential of the metal current is not allowed to flow across the Schottky barrier .

One embodiment as shown in employs an array of zinc oxide ZnO nanostructures with a corrugated conductor placed above the nanostructures . A load is coupled to the base of the nanostructure array forming an Ohmic contact therebetween and to the corrugated conductor . A micrograph of suitable ZnO nanostructures is shown in . In an alternate embodiment as shown in a sheet defining a plurality of nano bowls is used as the conductive contact. A micrograph of a plurality of nano bowls is shown in . Suitable nano bowls may be fabricated according to a method disclosed in detail in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0224779 A1 Ser. No. 11 010 178 filed on Dec. 10 2004 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. This embodiment could be employed in generating electricity from body movement. For example this embodiment could be applied to the soles of a pair of shoes to generated electricity while the person wearing the shoes walks.

An embodiment that employs an array of nanowires that are activated by a reciprocating contact is shown in . The reciprocating contact which is coupled to a load includes a metal contact blade that is driven by an actuator such as a piston type actuator.

A rotating generator is shown in in which a semiconductor piezoelectric structure includes a plurality of nanorods extending radially from a core and that is capable of rotating about an axis in rotational direction R. The conductive contact which is coupled to a load defines an opening that is disposed so that as the nanorods are drawn against edges of the contact as the semiconductor piezoelectric structure rotates. In this embodiment flowing fluid can cause the semiconductor piezoelectric structure to rotate much in the way that a windmill rotates. This embodiment could be used as a generator within fluid flow structures such as a blood vessel or a water pipe.

An embodiment for converting vibrational energy into electrical energy is shown in in which an array of semiconductor piezoelectric nanostructures is placed in an opposing relationship to an array of conductive nanorods and is coupled thereto via a load . A first end of at least some of the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods is adjacent to a first end of at least some of a set of the conductive nanorods so that as the conductive nanorods vibrate laterally in directions V and V with respect to the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods a forward biased Schottky barrier is formed by contact of at least one of the conductive nanorods and at least one of the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods thereby generating an electrical current. A micrograph of an array of semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods is shown in .

In one method of making a generator as shown in a plurality of catalyst particles such as gold particles is placed on a substrate . Zinc oxide nano wires are then grown from the catalyst particles using a process of the type disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0224779 A1. A deformable layer such as a layer of an organic polymer is deposited onto the substrate to a level so that the deformable layer surrounds each of the plurality of zinc oxide semiconductor piezoelectric structures to a predetermined level. An uneven conductive contact layer is placed above the nano wires so that as a downward force in the direction of the arrows is applied to the conductive contact layer forward biased Schottky barriers are formed in the manner discussed with reference to and a current is applied to the load . In this embodiment the deformable layer maintains the attitude of the nano wires keeps them separated and prevents them from peeling off of the substrate .

This embodiment may be subjected to extremely large deformation so that they can be used for flexible electronics as a flexible or foldable power source. One reason for choosing zinc oxide in this embodiment is that it is a biocompatible and bio safe material and thus it has a potential for being implanted as a power source in the human body. The flexibility of the polymer substrate used for growing zinc oxide nano wires makes it feasible to accommodate the flexibility of human muscles so that it can use mechanical energy body movement muscle stretching in the human body to generate electricity.

The embodiment shown in may also respond to acoustic wave or ultrasonic wave energy as shown in . Resonance of the nano wires as a one end free beam can also generate electricity.

The principles and technology demonstrated here have the potential of converting mechanical movement energy such as body movement muscle stretching blood pressure vibration energy such as acoustic ultrasonic wave and hydraulic energy such as flow of body fluid blood flow contraction of blood vessel dynamic fluid in nature into electric energy that may be sufficient for self powering nanodevices and nanosystems. The technology could have important applications in wireless self powered nanodevices by harvesting energy from the environment. It may also provide a method for indirectly charging of a battery. It may be possible to fabricate large power output electric generator by using arrays of ZnO wires belts which can be grown on substrates such as metal foils flexible organic plastic substrates ceramic substrates such as alumina and compound semiconductors such as GaN and AlN . The nano generator could be the basis for using self powering technology for in situ real time and implantable biosensing biomedical monitoring and biodetection. It could have the potential of solving key energy requirement for remote sensing and actuating.

In one embodiment as shown in the nanostructures could be patterned in clusters or as shown in individual nanostructures arranged in a pattern. In one embodiment as shown in the conductive contact could include an array of conductive pyramids .

As shown in one method of making a generating unit which may be employed in a stacked generating structure. A double side polished Silicon Si wafer is coated with 100 nm thick AlOlayers and on both sides by atomic layer deposition. The film serves as an insulating layer to ensure independent operations of the nanogenerators to be built in the adjacent layers. Then the wafer is deposited with a 20 nm thick Cr layer and by direct current magnetron plasma sputtering on both the top and bottom. Following that a 50 nm thick ZnO layer and is deposited by radio frequency magnetron sputtering onto the Cr layers and at the top and bottom surfaces but not on the side surfaces. The Cr layers and serve not only as an adhesion to bind the AlOlayers and and the ZnO layers and together but also as a common electrode for collecting the charges to be transported through the nanogenerators. The resulting wafer is then placed in a chemical solution to grow nanostructures thereon.

Aligned ZnO nanowire arrays may be grown according to the following method. Prior to exposure to the solution the wafer is rinsed by 4 C. 0.5 mmol L Zn CHCOO in an ethanol solution on both sides and then baked at 350 C. for 15 min to form a layer of 0001 textured ZnO seeds which leads to the growth of ZnO nanowires. The density of the ZnO seeds could be varied by using different concentrations of the Zn CHCOO ethanol solution. The morphology the ZnO arrays can be manipulated by using different growth temperatures for different lengths of time. Generally at a relatively low growth temperature and relatively long growth time nanowires are grown while at a relatively high growth temperature and relatively short growth time nanotips are grown. The morphology controlled growth of ZnO nanowire or nanotip arrays on different sides of the Si wafer is achieved by floating the substrate on the nutrient solution surface which includes 5 mM 1 to 1 ratio of Zn NO and hexamethylenetetramine. The nutrient solution may heated up to 100 C. for 24 hours for growing the pyramid shaped nanotips or 70 C. for 48 hours for growing the hexagonal prism shaped nanowires independently for either side. Finally the side with nanotips is coated uniformly with 100 nm thick Au by magnetron plasma sputtering to form a metal tip array . An alternate embodiment of a method of making nanotips is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 194 914 filed on Aug. 20 2008 by Wang et al. the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. 

The resulting nanogenerating units may then be stacked to form a nanogenerator as shown in . The nanogenerator is made by stacking a nanogenerating unit on top of a partial nanogenerating unit e.g. one that only includes the nanowire side and then stacking a plurality of nanogenerating units on top of each other so that the nanotip portions partially interpenetrate with the nanowire portions. At the top of the stack another partial nanogenerating unit e.g. one that only includes the nanotip side is placed so that the nanotips engage the nanowires.

The Au coated nanotips act like the AFM tips shown in . Such a design neither has a strict requirement on the height uniformity of the nanowires nor needs to maintain a specific gap between the layers. In certain embodiments insulative spacers not shown may be placed between the generating units to maintain a desired spacing during rest periods.

One configuration of a nanogenerator is shown in in which a load is coupled to each generating unit. In other embodiments the generating units may be coupled the load in parallel or in series to achieve a desired voltage current characteristic.

In another embodiment as shown in a thin Ti film is applied to a conductive substrate and an Au or Pt film is deposited onto the Ti film using magnetron plasma sputtering. The conductive substrate can include one of many materials including a metal and a conductive polymer. The substrate the Ti film and the Au film are annealed at approximately 350 C. to form a textured ZnO film with its 0001 surface facing up to increase adhesion and reduce lattice strain of the Au film.

A plurality of aligned ZnO nanowires are grown using the chemical approach at low temperature e.g. at less than 100 C. described above. The nanowires are infiltrated with a thin insulating polymer layer . In one embodiment the polymer layer is flexible elastic and soft.

The top surface is etched using a plasma etching process to expose the tips of the nanowires . A silicon wafer deposited with a metal layer such as platinum by electron beam evaporator is carefully covered on top of the tips . The metal layer forms a Schottky contact with the ZnO nanowires . The metal layer includes a hard metal so that it can compress the nanowires axially to induce compressive strain in the nanowires .

Since the nanowires have a common orientation along the c axis the piezoelectric field direction in each nanowire is the same. As shown in if a periodic force is applied to the top of the structure the nanowires will be axially compressed and will produce a piezoelectric potential drop along the axial direction. This potential will drive the flow of electrons in the external circuit towards one direction forming a transient current. The electrons will accumulate in the electrode to avoid a circular flow owing to the blocking of the Schottky barrier at one contact i.e. the top electrode .

When the force is lifted from the structure the nanowires recover to their free state and the back flow of the accumulated electrons through the external circuit forms a reversed flow current. The entire process produces an alternating current following with the frequency at which the external force is applied.

As shown in by depositing a thin insulative film between each structure a layer by layer integration of the individual layers is possible. In such a case a 3D structured nanogenerator may be built to have enhanced output voltage and current characteristics. Such a structure could used to harvest walking energy by being built into shoes and floors. It could also be built into tires to power embedded sensors and it could even be built into roads to harvest energy from running vehicles. As will be clearly appreciated this embodiment could be employed in many different embodiments.

In one experimental embodiment the substrate for the following synthesis can be metal conductive glass or even conductive polymer. Here we give an example of using silicon. A piece of silicon wafer is cleaned by a standard cleaning process. It is ultrasonicated in sequence in acetone ethanol IPA and deionized water each for ten minutes and then blown dry by nitrogen gas. The silicon wafer is placed in a box furnace annealing at 800 Celsius degrees for half an hour to generate a thick layer of SiO.

Then the wafer is coated with about 1 m thick layer of Au by magnetron sputter under 25 sccm Ar as the sputtering gas and 350 V voltage and 40 mA direct current. The deposition rate is about 1 angstrom per second. The purpose to make Au layer that thick is to make the Au layer robust enough when being fabricated into nanogenerator later on. In between the SiOsurface and the Au layer a thin layer of titanium is sputtered as an adhesion layer which buffers the huge lattice mismatch between SiOsurface and Au 111 face. After that the whole substrate is annealed at 300 Celsius degrees for half an hour to reduce the lattice strain in the Au layer.

The Au can be lifted off by etching away the SiOlayer with 1 HF solution. Using higher concentration of HF solution would end up with very rough surface Au layer. Because the hydrophobic property of Au when immersed in water solution for very long time the Au layer would crumple up. To improve the surface smoothness of the Au layer thioglycolic acid is added into the HF solution as to modify the surface property of the Au layer changing it from hydrophobic to hydrophilic because the thio group in thioglycolic acid will bind strongly to Au atoms leaving the carboxyl group inside the solution body. The thioglycolic acid concentration is around 1 mmol L.

On the Au layer a layer of 50 nm ZnO seed is sputtered by magnetron sputter under 25 sccm Ar and 75 W radio frequency with 10 tune and 60 load. The deposition rate is about 0.4 angstrom per second. After that the Au layer with ZnO seed is annealed at 300 Celsius degrees to improve the normal orientation of the ZnO seed to .

The growth of ZnO nanowire arrays take place in the 5 mM of zinc nitrate and hexamethylenetetramine solution in a way that due to surface tension of nutrient solution the Au layer is floating with face down on the surface of the nutrient solution which means to immerse the ZnO seed layer inside the nutrient solution. The growth takes place at 70 Celsius in a mechanical convection oven for 24 hours. An advantage of floating the substrate on the nutrient solution surface but not putting it at the bottom of the nutrient solution is that when heating up the solution nucleation also takes place inside the solution body. When those nucleation grow large enough ZnO particles would precipitate out and falls down to the substrate which is located at the vessel bottom. Those precipitation fallen onto the substrate will consume the nutrient from the solution and hinder the growth of aligned ZnO nanowires on the Au surface.

Then a sample of the as grown ZnO nanowire array is rinsed with ethanol to remove any organic residues adsorbed on the ZnO nanowires surface. Then it is coated with a layer of Au by magnetron sputter in the same way as stated previously.

A sample of ZnO nanowire arrays with Au coating and a sample of ZnO nanowire arrays without Au coating are compacted face to face together. The sample with Au coating acts as the top zigzag top electrode. When we press the compacted electrodes by external mechanical force or vibrational force the ZnO nanowire arrays will bend generating a positive potential side and a negative potential side. The top Au coated ZnO nanowires act as an array of AFM tips selectively collecting the separated charges by virtue of a coupled effect of piezoelectric and semiconducting properties of ZnO nanowire arrays.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

