---

title: Method and apparatus for affecting a recirculation zone in a cross flow
abstract: Disclosed is a cross flow apparatus including a surface and at least one outlet located at the surface. The cross flow apparatus further includes at least one guide at the surface configured to direct an intersecting flow flowing across the surface and increase a velocity of a cross flow being expelled from the at least one outlet downstream from the at least one outlet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08220270&OS=08220270&RS=08220270
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08220270
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081031
---
The invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC26 05NT42643 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to cross flow configurations. More particularly the subject matter relates to fuel nozzles for gas turbine engines.

A jet in cross flow occurs when a flow of fluid exits an orifice to interact with an intersecting flow of fluid that is flowing across the orifice. Jets in cross flow are central to a variety of applications such as gas turbine combustors fuel injectors and pollution control in smoke stacks. A jet in cross flow typically creates a zone of recirculation downstream from where the cross flow is introduced. The recirculation zone typically has a reduced flow velocity that may cause a variety of detrimental effects depending on the configuration of the flow in cross flow application.

Thus an apparatus that reduces eliminates or otherwise alters the recirculation zone downstream of a flow in cross flow would be well received in the art.

According to one aspect of the invention a cross flow apparatus includes a surface at least one outlet located at the surface and at least one guide at the surface configured to direct an intersecting flow flowing across the surface and increase a velocity of a cross flow being expelled from the at least one outlet downstream from the at least one outlet.

According to another aspect of the invention a combustor swozzle includes a swozzle vane having a surface a cross flow outlet located at the surface and a guide at the surface configured to direct an intersecting flow flowing across the surface and increase a velocity of a cross flow being expelled from the outlet downstream from the outlet.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a method for combining a plurality of flows includes flowing a first flow of a first fluid across a surface expelling a second flow of a second fluid from an opening in the surface into the first flow guiding at least one of the first flow and the second flow and increasing a velocity of the second flow in a region downstream from where the second flow is expelled.

A detailed description of the hereinafter described embodiments of the disclosed apparatus and method are presented herein by way of exemplification and not limitation with reference to the Figures.

Referring to there is shown a combustor swozzle with a plurality of swozzle vanes each of the swozzle vanes having a leading edge and a surface . The surface has at least one cross flow outlet thereon with two being illustrated in the Figure. During the combustion process in a gas turbine a first flow of compressed airflow approaches the leading edge of the swozzle vane and flows across the surface . A second flow of combustor fuel is provided by a fuel chamber and is thereafter expelled from the cross flow outlet at an intersecting angle to the first flow . The swozzle vanes may or may not be curved in profile up to ninety degrees downstream from the cross flow outlet in order to mix and swirl the combination of the two flows . A combustor not shown is thereafter receptive of the combination of the two flows . On the surface of at least one of the swozzle vanes is at least one guiding portion discussed herein. The guiding portion is configured to direct the first flow and thereby increase a velocity of the second flow downstream from the cross flow outlet . This increased velocity reduces a zone of recirculation thereby decreasing flame holding therein. An embodiment disclosed herein is described by way of example with respect to a cross flow configuration on the surface of the swozzle vane but may be applied to any other cross flow configuration.

Referring to the swozzle vane is shown having the first flow approaching the leading edge that splits the first flow into two flows. A portion of the first flow flows across the surface of the swozzle vane shown in the Figures while another portion of the first flow flows across an antipodal surface not shown of the swozzle vane . The first flow may be composed of compressed airflow as described hereinabove but may alternately have flow and compositional properties of any type of intersecting flow that is configured to surround and intersect a cross flow. Regardless of the compositional properties of the intersecting flow it is configured to flow across the cross flow outlets on the surface of swozzle vane .

In contrast the cross flow outlets are openings in the surface configured to expel the second flow at an intersecting angle to the first flow . In one embodiment the second flow is a jet of a combustible fuel such as gasoline natural gas propane diesel kerosene E85 biodiesel biogas or by any other fuel used for combustion. In another embodiment the second flow is any other flow of gaseous or liquid substance or combination thereof. Thus it will be understood that the second flow may have flow and compositional properties of any type of a cross flow introduced into a cross flow. Two of the cross flow outlets are shown on the surface each expelling the second flow . Each of the cross flow outlets is shown herein to be generally circular. Alternately the cross flow outlet may be ovular polygonal or curved in shape or a combination thereof. Further it will be understood that one or more of the cross flow outlets may also be included on the antipodal surface of the swozzle vane in a similar configuration to the cross flow outlets located on the surface .

The swozzle vane further includes at least one guiding portion with two being illustrated about each one of the cross flow outlets . The guiding portion is a guide that is configured to redirect the flow of at least one of the first flow and the second flow . This redirection increases the velocity of the flow in a downstream region the downstream region located downstream from the cross flow outlet . This redirection further prevents both flame holding in the downstream region and reduces a recirculation zone from forming in the downstream region . Furthermore the guiding portion increases the penetration height of the second flow into the first flow carrying the second flow further the surface . This is useful in dispersing the fluid of the second flow within the stream of the first flow .

In one embodiment the guiding portion further includes an upstream end and a downstream end . In this embodiment the upstream end is located farther than the downstream end from a parallel flowline that intersects the middle of the cross flow outlet and is oriented parallel to the flow of the first flow . The guiding portion is also curved around the cross flow outlet . In another embodiment rather than being curved the guiding portion instead has a straight profile. In yet another embodiment the guiding portion has two or more straight sections.

Although the guiding portion illustrated herein is a protruding vane the guiding portion in alternate embodiments may be a negative impression or groove formed in the surface around the cross flow outlet . In the case of a protruding guiding portion the height of the guiding portion normal to the surface increases from upstream to downstream in one embodiment. In the case of a negative impression groove the depth of the groove increases from upstream to downstream in one embodiment. It should be understood that the height and depth of the guiding portion is not limited to these embodiments but may remain constant or have any other configuration. Furthermore depending on the embodiment there may be a plurality of the guiding portions located about each of the cross flow outlets . In the illustrated embodiment two of the guiding portions are used for each cross flow outlet one on each side of the cross flow outlet .

Additionally as depicted in a single of the at least one guiding portion may be configured to increase the velocity of two or more of the second flows with two being illustrated in the Figure. In this embodiment the single guiding portion may be located between two or more of the cross flow outlets . The single guiding portion may be a portion of sheet metal having two guiding walls . Each of the guiding walls may have a profile and orientation similar to one of the protruding vanes in the previous embodiment described hereinabove. However each of the two guiding walls is configured to direct the first jet to a position behind a separate one of the at least one cross jet outlets . It should be understood that these embodiments exemplify the guiding portion but the guiding portion is not limited to these embodiments.

Elements of the embodiments have been introduced with either the articles a or an. The articles are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms including and having and their derivatives are intended to be inclusive such that there may be additional elements other than the elements listed. The conjunction or when used with a list of at least two terms is intended to mean any term or combination of terms. The terms first and second are used to distinguish elements and are not used to denote a particular order.

While the invention has been described in detail in connection with only a limited number of embodiments it should be readily understood that the invention is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations alterations substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described but which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally while various embodiments of the invention have been described it is to be understood that aspects of the invention may include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.

