---

title: Method, system, and computer program product for virtualizing a physical storefront
abstract: An interactive virtual model of a physical storefront can be presented to a shopper within a user interactive interface of a computing device remotely located from the physical storefront. At least a portion of the organizational structure of the interactive virtual model can be identical a portion of the organizational structure of the physical storefront. The organization structure can varies from storefront-to-storefront of different physical storefronts, each being related to a different interactive virtual model. A change involving at least one physical object within the physical storefront can be sensed. Responsive to sensing the change, a virtual object presented in the interactive virtual model can be changed so that the change to the physical object occurring in the physical storefront is reflected in the interactive virtual model and is shown in the user interactive interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07685023&OS=07685023&RS=07685023
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07685023
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081224
---
The present invention relates to the field of e commerce and more particularly to unifying virtual shopping and storefront shopping experiences.

Today s storefront shopping differs from shopping online in many respects even though often times both the storefront and the online store are operated by the same organization. Because of this difference some customers prefer to shop at storefronts while others prefer online shopping. Storefront shoppers are often hesitant to utilize online stores due to the manner in which they are required to interact. Storefront shoppers are often able to quickly locate products in a retail store but frequently have trouble finding products in an online store.

Additionally this disconnect between storefronts and online stores means that collaborative shopping is hindered. For example an online shopper interested in a product cannot give a friend shopping in the storefront useful information about locating the product in the storefront. Further shoppers tend to have problems with interaction with online store search engines. For instance a user may not be able to identify search terms associated with a product they are interested in purchasing. These shortcomings can add up to potential revenue loss and ultimately detract from a positive shopping experience.

The present invention discloses a solution for unifying virtual shopping and storefront shopping experiences. In the solution a real time virtual storefront representation of a physical storefront can be presented to a virtual storefront shopper within a user interface of a computing device. In one embodiment the virtual storefront shopper can be presented with a three dimensional model of the storefront displaying locations of aisles products shoppers shopper kiosks point of sale kiosks and the like. Utilizing presence technologies storefront activity e.g. shoppers products etc can be reflected in the virtual store which can even occur in real time. For example if a radio frequency identification RFID tagged item is moved from one aisle to another the new location can be automatically updated within the virtual store. Interfaces in the storefront e.g. smart carts and within the virtual store can permit a virtual storefront shopper to communicate with shoppers of the storefront. Communication can include but is not limited to voice communication text exchange and the like.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured for instance via optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Layout and organization structure in storefront can be represented in interface . In one embodiment entities and objects within storefront such as shoppers movable displays non movable displays carts and the like can be represented within interface . For instance a physical item in Aisle A of storefront can be presented as a virtual object within Aisle A in interface . In one embodiment a set of one or more shoppers of an interface can detect a presence of communicate and otherwise interact with other virtual shoppers and or with actual shoppers physically in the storefront . In one embodiment virtual shoppers can interact with in store employees physically located in storefront . In one implementation real time or near real time updates can ensure a virtual storefront and a physical storefront are synchronized. In store kiosks within storefront can exist to facilitate interaction between shoppers in storefront and virtual shoppers interacting with a virtual version of the storefront . Further shoppers present in storefront can utilize mobile electronic devices with networking capabilities to interact with virtual shoppers.

As used herein a planogram can be a diagram or schematic indicating organizational information about a physical storefront. Planogram can facilitate the automated generation of a virtual storefront model. Planogram can include information including but not limited to aisle layout kiosk location product location and the like. Other sources containing organizational information about a storefront can be combined with planogram usage. In operation planogram can be an optional entity which can be substituted by one or more alternative sources which can be used to automatically generate a virtual storefront model.

It should be noted that use of planograms to create storefront specific layouts for corresponding virtual stores can be an efficient mechanism for creating multiple different virtual store fronts. For example a retailer having five thousand different storefronts can automate a generation of five thousand different virtual stores using planograms combined with automatically obtained information. For example intra store inventory storage containers shelves displays registers and other objects can be marked with RFID tags which can automatically be detected by a series of in store RFID sensors. From RFID readings a location and identity of the various in store objects can be obtained which when combined with planogram data provides an extremely realistic representation of the store. Another advantage of using planograms and RFID obtained data is that as in store modifications are made such as moving display items the changes can be automatically detected which results in updates of a virtual store analog. Thus virtual store front layouts can be automatically maintained and updated to ensure that each reflects actual in store changes.

A level of granularity in which a physical storefront is modeled by a planogram can vary from implementation to implementation. Further a planogram can include static semi static and dynamic items depending upon implementation specifics. For example in one implementation a basic layout of a physical storefront can be represented by a planogram which can indicate in which aisles certain categories of items are located. In another implementation the planogram can include detailed inventory items and their location within a storefront. In still another implementation the planogram can include current storefront promotions promotional displays and the like. The planogram can even include employees working in a storefront customers present in a storefront and the like.

Interface server can present virtual store within interface . Server can convey virtual storefront information over network to a set of clients . In one embodiment server can be used to deliver a customized non native interface to client . In the embodiment interface can be controlled and or managed by the distributor of virtual storefront . Server can provide customized interface elements and or functionality to be presented within interface . Elements can be selectively enabled or disabled based on capabilities of client and or interface . Elements can include graphical user interface elements voice user interface elements tactile interface elements and the like. Further server can allow storefront to be abstracted allowing presentation over heterogeneous interfaces. For example storefront can be presented seamlessly within an existing networked virtual world environment.

In one embodiment interactions with storefront can be managed by handler which can communicate requests to virtual storefront server . For each client and or interface a handler can be utilized to receive storefront interaction . Storefront interaction can be processed into requests which can be conveyed to server . In one embodiment handler can be an application programming interface API enabling virtual storefront to be implemented within any client and or interface .

Virtual storefront server can process interaction requests from handler and convey the appropriate response to server . Storefront data can provide organizational information about storefront which can be used to enable interactions which can include real time interactions with storefront . Server can be used to track shopper presence within storefront create and or modify storefront inventory available to virtual storefront shoppers and the like. Further server can allow registration and identification of shoppers utilizing storefront . For instance when a shopper first requests a virtual storefront server can register their presence within the system . In one embodiment server or server receiving information from server can be an e commerce server able to integrate with existing end to end shopping systems. Alternatively server can perform all e commerce functionality without the aid of existing systems.

Storefront server can be used to perform physical storefront awareness which can be communicated to storefront . Server can track inventory manage in store shoppers track transient items intra store item pricing and the like. In one embodiment server can be an existing storefront server associated with one or more physical storefronts. In the embodiment storefront server can provide storefront level information which can be replicated within storefront . For example special events occurring at selected stores can be presented to shoppers utilizing participating storefront . In one embodiment the storefront server can include a point of sale POS system which links a unique inventory item based upon bar code RFID tag or other identifier to an in store price. This in store price can optionally be conveyed as part of the storefront data which permits the prices of items of a virtual storefront to correspond to those of the related physical storefront which is typically not the case for online shopping. In one embodiment virtual shoppers can interact with and or experience in store special events such as participating in an in store chess tournament via interface or receiving a video stream of a live performance occurring in store. Further inventory can be presented within storefront enabling storefront shoppers to interact with in store products.

Warehouse server can provide information about non storefront inventory . Inventory can represent a ubiquitous pool of products which a virtual storefront can present. Storefront server can utilize data from server to allow virtual storefront shoppers to access inventory not available at the associated physical storefront. Inventory can provide overflow capacity for physical storefronts with limited quantities of high demand products. For instance when a product is in limited quantity in a physical storefront associated with storefront products and or quantities within inventory can be presented.

Different embodiments exist depending upon a degree of connectivity desired between a virtual storefront and a related physical storefront. In one embodiment for example a basic layout of a physical storefront from server can be used as storefront data when establishing virtual storefront while shoppers of interface can have access to inventory which can vary from inventory . For example an inventory available to e commerce shoppers can often be significantly greater than an in store inventory . Even when a low level of granularity is used for storefront e.g. down to an item level of a physical storefront e commerce purchases can be sent from a warehouse and thus may not affect inventory . Additionally each shelf of a virtual storefront may have an option for more where inventory not present in a physical storefront but included in available inventory is presented.

In another implementation inventory shown in a virtual storefront can be limited to inventory of an actual physical storefront. All shipping pick up events and the like can be conducted from this physical storefront location and can be assisted by server . In such an embodiment actual human workers in a storefront may be notified via server to remove physical objects from the storefront responsive to activities occurring in virtual storefront . Such actions may be necessary to ensure that virtually and physically conducted transactions involving limited inventory do not exceed the capacity of the physical inventory of a store. In such an implementation shoppers of a virtual storefront may make tentative purchases of a limited inventory which are finalized when a physical agent of a physical storefront removes the electronically purchased item from availability within the storefront. In another contemplated embodiment automated systems can be used to remove items from a physical storefront responsive to activities occurring within a related virtual storefront .

Hybrid implementations are contemplated where interactions within a virtual storefront may involve inventory and inventory . For example pick up orders can be restricted to a physical inventory while shipped orders can be related to inventory . In one embodiment a storefront server can be involved in transactions occurring through a virtual storefront regardless of whether inventory and or is utilized to satisfy an order made through a virtual storefront . Thus orders of either a physical or virtual storefront can be processed through a storefront s system which can have positive effects on scaling can incentivize physical storefronts to positively interact dedicate resources e.g. employees to helping virtual shoppers and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Servers can be optional components providing functionality of system is preserved. For example storefront server can be excluded from system provided storefront data such as a planogram is provided to virtual storefront server . In another example server can be omitted and virtual storefront server can be a Web server providing Web content rendered in interface .

In one embodiment virtual storefront server can provide data to one or more sources to accurately represent storefront transactions in a virtual computing space which are specifically designed not to affect an actual physical storefront other than potentially providing a revenue stream to the storefront for providing valuable simulation data. For instance a SECOND LIFE server e.g. server can utilize data from actual physical storefronts to accurately model a virtual world in a self updating manner where transactions occurring during SECOND LIFE game play are not sent to server or server . For example a bookstore in SECOND LIFE modeled after a physical storefront can receive inventory updates promotional updates and the like from an actual storefront which permits a simulation to be accurately maintained in a highly efficient manner. Thus virtual storefront interactions do not necessarily have to have a bidirectional affect on a physical storefront.

In one embodiment functionality presented herein can be consolidated within existing infrastructures enabling integration with established systems. This consolidation can be part of a unified effort or can be provided as a value added service for one or more institutions. For example system functionality can be encapsulated within a middleware software solution such as WEBSPHERE. Connectors can be established to permit the middleware solution to interact with different front end interfaces and back end infrastructures.

Further the front end and back end infrastructures can be owned maintained and managed by different business entities. For example an e commerce retailer can present virtual storefronts mirroring a physical storefront even though the both are separate establishments. For instance an online only retailer and a physical storefront business having no organic on line presence can mutually benefit by cooperating in accordance with system details. In another embodiment a third party can provide an online presence using virtual storefronts for a physical storefront for a service fee.

Sensors located within the storefront can provide information about tracked items and shoppers . Sensors can include but are not limited to radio frequency identification RFID cameras thermal sensors biometric sensors motion detectors pressure sensors and the like. Sensors can be positioned in storefront to enable tracking throughout the storefront . In one embodiment RFID transponders can be placed in products which sensors can identify and track. For example sensors can track transient items such as products in a shopping carts and or products being carried by shoppers. The sensors can provide an efficient easy to maintain and highly responsive e.g. updated can occur in real time in some implementations mechanism to maintain a correspondence between in store activities and changes and those of a related virtual store.

Shopper interface can enable interaction between storefront shoppers and virtual storefront shoppers. Interface can be located within storefront and can include but are not limited to kiosks smart carts and the like. Shopper interface can permit communications which includes real time near real time and or non real time communications depending upon implementation choices to be achieved between shoppers in storefront and in virtual storefronts. Shopper interface can optionally be used to track shoppers through storefront . Communications can also be queued and selectively presented to detected shoppers at an appropriate time and place. For example a shopping list can be conveyed by a spouse using a computer to an in store counterpart. This shopping list can be displayed on an electronic display of a shopping spouse s cart can be compared against items purchased at a point of sale device with notifications being presented at the point of sale device for missed or non corresponding items and the like.

Tracked items can allow server to mirror storefront changes to a virtual storefront. Items can include storefront products shopping carts shoppers storefront employees kiosks and the like. When tracked items are moved sensors can identify the item and convey information about the item change to server . For example if a store kiosk is moved to a different location in the storefront the server can replicated the change in the associated virtual storefront.

Shoppers can be customers located within storefront . Shoppers can be identified by utilizing information gathered from one or more sources. Sources can include customer reward card RFID capable devices kiosks and the like. Recognition techniques can include speaker identification verification SIV a recognition analysis from captured video and the like. In one embodiment speech characteristics and or visual attributes of a shopper can be captured and replicated for a corresponding avatar which represents that shopper in a corresponding virtual storefront. Shopper identity location and shopping behavior can be utilized by server to represent shoppers within a virtual storefront.

Synchronization engine can enable storefront activity to be replicated to an associated virtual storefront. Engine can utilize a polling mechanism which can identify changes within storefront based on polling intervals. Alternatively engine can utilize a push pull mechanism for retrieving updates from storefront . Additionally engine can be used to maintain synchronization between physical storefront inventory and inventory available to virtual storefront shoppers. In one embodiment when a tracked product is removed from a physical storefront shelf engine can update available products presented in a virtual storefront to reflect the removed product. Other changes such as changes in product pricing can similarly be reflected in the virtual storefront. In the embodiment engine can update the underlying available product information within virtual storefront without a shopper being aware a change has occurred. Alternatively virtual storefront shoppers can be notified when product availability has changed.

Integration with a point of sale system in the storefront can be a significant embodiment. To elaborate retailers often have different prices between stores and or between a warehouse location for a variety of reasons e.g. Shop X has more milk approaching expiry date than ShopY so Shop X will run a sale while Shop Y will not . Integration of the point of sale system with the virtual store permits a shopper in the virtual storefront to see and receive the same price as that of a shopper in the physical storefront . In one embodiment pricing information for the virtual store can be dynamically generated and or hidden from Web crawlers which prevents store specific pricing information from being available to price comparison engines. This can be significant to maximize profits by permitting different virtual stores to charge different amounts for a common product. In one embodiment when a virtual shopper makes a purchase the actual transaction can be reflected in the point of sale system of the physical storefront.

Presence manager can identify and track shoppers throughout storefront . Manager can relay presence information to shopper interface and or interfaces presenting a virtual storefront. Manager can be used to track shoppers behaviors including but not limited to time of entry time of exit duration spent at a location and the like. Information gathered from manager can be conveyed in to a virtual storefront enabling a virtual storefront shopper to be presented with a real time view of a physical storefront.

Purchasing handler can enable shoppers to purchase storefront products. Utilizing interface shoppers can access products not located in storefront which can be purchased although products are not local to the storefront . In one embodiment handler can be associated with a point of sale system located in storefront . In the embodiment handler can allow virtual storefront shoppers to purchase products in a similar fashion as storefront . In the embodiment handler can utilize retail transaction interface RTI technology to enable virtual storefront and physical storefront integration. Handler can be used to convey physical storefront sales promotions to virtual storefronts. Promotions can include sale pricing promotional offers product rebates and the like.

Communications controller can allow real time communication to occur between shoppers and virtual storefront shoppers. Further controller can permit real time communications between shoppers in storefront . Controller can facilitate communications including text exchange voice communication and the like. Controller can be used to convey relevant physical storefront announcements e.g. public address to virtual storefront shoppers.

Virtual store interface can vary between the physical storefronts which they are representing. For instance a physical storefront can neglect to provide shopping history for shoppers resulting in element to be suppressed. Further interface can be configured to appear using themes styles based on physical storefront and or corporate policies. For example an interface layout for a Chicago storefront can be different from a Florida storefront. Layout changes can be customized to facilitate seasonal changes sales promotions special events shopper usability behaviors and the like.

Shoppers utilizing interface can be presented with interface elements which can mimic the physical storefront shopping experience. Interface can include elements such as location element navigation elements and product presentation element . Location element can present relevant shopper with virtual storefront location information including but not limited to aisle information department information and the like. Navigation elements can permit a shopper to navigate through the virtual storefront in a manner similar to physical storefront shopping. For example elements can permit Matt to browse Aisle A by utilizing the up arrow icon. Element can present products located on shelving associated with the location within the physical storefront. For example element can display products on a segment of shelving in Aisle A . In one embodiment element can present products available from company warehouses in addition to products located in the physical storefront.

Based on shopper geographical location interface can automatically present a shopper with a virtualized local storefront. Location information can be gained from presence information shopper settings shopper input and the like. Alternatively shopper settings location preferences can determine the most appropriate store to be automatically selected. Store location information can be gathered from shopping habits e.g. most frequented store sales promotions and the like. For instance when a shopper inputs the storefront s Web site address the shopper can be redirected to a virtualized version of their favorite local store.

Shoppers can be permitted to manually select a virtualized store through interface artifact . Artifact can present a shopper with available virtualized stores which can be presented. In one embodiment artifact can enable a shopper to search within a subset of virtual stores. For instance if a product is not available for in store pickup at the Irving store the shopper can interact with button to automatically find the nearest physical store where the product is available for in store pickup.

Leveraging shopper identification and presence information interface can allow shoppers to interact in real time near real time or through messages having an appreciable delay e.g. email voicemail etc. . Interface element can present a virtual storefront shopper with other shoppers located in the physical storefront. Additionally shoppers located in different storefronts and virtual storefronts can be presented. Element can be customizable enabling categorization and organization of shoppers into groups. Further interface can utilize social networking lists contact lists and the like to automatically discover shoppers of interest who can be presented in the interface .

Shoppers interacting with the virtual storefront interface can be permitted to communicate with shoppers in the physical storefront through interface element . Element can include a text exchange interface an voice interface a co browsing interface a two way radio interface an email interface etc. enabling shoppers to communicate. For instance a virtual store shopper Matt can chat with his friend Sally who is shopping in the physical storefront. In one embodiment speech processing technologies translation technologies and the like can facilitate communications with people utilizing different interface modalities and or communicating in different languages.

Shopping history element can allow a virtual store shopper to quickly locate previously purchased products. Element can present the shopper with information about previously inspected products product availability based on history and the like. Element can permit a virtual store shopper to convey previous products of interest to physical storefront shoppers.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Artifacts can be presented or suppressed based on shopper interaction configuration settings virtual storefront settings physical storefront settings and the like. Functionality attributed to artifacts can be presented using one or more graphical elements including but not limited to context menus pull down menus dialog boxes and the like. Interaction with interface can be admin shopper configurable and can include interactions such as single click double click drag and drop multiple select and the like.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

