---

title: System and method for service bulletin data exchange
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments, systems and methods for exchanging data over a network include communicating with a user via a portable communication device over the network, interacting with the user via an interactive software application, receiving a request for service bulletin data related to at least one aircraft from the user via the portable communication device, accessing service bulletin data related to the at least one aircraft from a database component based on a registry number associated with the at least one aircraft passed with the request from the user, and transferring service bulletin data related to the at least one aircraft from the database component to the portable communication device via the network for viewing by the user on the portable communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08291043&OS=08291043&RS=08291043
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08291043
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080509
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 118 037 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DATA RETRIEVAL filed May 9 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to data retrieval and more particularly to service bulletin data exchange using ultra portable device.

In the aviation industry airline companies are provided with advisory service bulletins for facilitating maintenance repair and service of aircraft. Some of the advisory service bulletins are provided by aircraft manufacturers based on feedback from airline service personnel and are typically prepared for specific aircraft owned by a specific airline company in response to aviation safety standards.

Service bulletins are often lengthy and complicated documents that need significant man hours for sorting and finding sections relevant to a particular aircraft. For example a service bulletin on scribe line damage to aircraft skins can be hundreds of pages in length. Airlines need a sorting tool that quickly guides service personnel through service bulletins.

Conventional aircraft applications require entering exact configuration data of repairs on an aircraft. Entering large amounts of data such as location thickness fastener type and material type for dozens of different repairs can be taxing and error prone. In some instances data can be entered into a laptop but climbing on a ladder several stories high in the wind and rain while trying to enter data in a laptop or on a clipboard can be difficult.

Manufacturers and regulators need records of findings during a service bulletin inspection to assess risk. If damage is found to be a rare event fleet inspection thresholds and inspection intervals can be adjusted accordingly to minimize cost for airlines. If damage is found to be widespread in the fleet inspection thresholds and intervals can be shortened to maintain safe operation for the fleet as a whole. Current methods for getting this data are cumbersome and require airline personnel to record data on paper for later entry and analysis.

In general there lacks an efficient approach for reporting and reviewing information regarding the status of aircraft e.g. damage and or malfunction to enable quick dispatch of aircraft repair service and or maintenance. As a result there is a need for an improved system and method for providing data and information on aircraft to service personnel for improved response to maintenance service and repair decision making.

Systems and methods disclosed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments provide a point of use application to improve efficiency reduce potential errors and simplify interpretation of service bulletin instructions. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide an interactive software application that is downloadable to a portable communication device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant PDA . The software application is utilized to guide a user to desirable sections of a service bulletin and prompts the user for appropriate response information such as numeric or click box entries to record results voice recordings photographs and various other related data and information.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a system for exchanging data over a network includes a communication component adapted to exchange data with a user via a portable communication device over a network and a database component adapted to store service bulletin data related to at least one aircraft. The system includes a processing component adapted to download an interactive software application to the portable communication device interact with the user via the interactive software application receive a request for service bulletin data related to the at least one aircraft from the user via the portable communication device access service bulletin data related to the at least one aircraft from the database component based on a registry number associated with the at least one aircraft passed with the request from the user and transfer service bulletin data related to the at least one aircraft from the database component to the portable communication device via the network for viewing by the user on the portable communication device.

In various implementations the system comprises a server and the portable communication device comprises a cell phone or personal digital assistant. The portable communication device includes a display component that displays the service bulletin data for viewing by the user. The portable communication device includes a user input component that receives input from the user including the registry number of the at least one aircraft. The portable communication device includes a portable database component for storage of the service bulletin data related to the at least one aircraft or at least one part thereof. The service bulletin data stored in the portable database component of the portable communication device provides the user with guided interactive inspection of the at least one aircraft by viewing portions of the service bulletin data that are selectively searchable based on input by the user. User input is stored in the portable database component and transferred from the portable communication device to the processing component for storage in the database component. User input includes user answers to questions and one or more recorded results to the questions are stored in the portable database component and transferred to the processing component for storage in the database component.

The scope of the disclosure is defined by the claims which are incorporated into this section by reference. A more complete understanding of embodiments will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of one or more embodiments. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings that will first be described briefly.

Embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures. As used herein the term exemplary means an example and not necessarily an ideal.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods disclosed herein provide for an interactive software application that is downloadable to a portable communication device such as a cell phone or PDA that enables quick navigation of lengthy service bulletins and airplane program documents such as the Repair Assessment Programs and simplified recording of data during performance of the required actions. In various implementations embodiments of the present disclosure enable convenient standardized entry and transmittal of aircraft data on incidence of certain types of damage and service bulletin actions to assist a user or operator with data entry about aircraft to improve fleet safety management decisions.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in one embodiment the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. In various other embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks adapted to communicate with a wireless telecommunications network.

The user device in various embodiments comprises a mobile communication device such as an ultra portable communication device including a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA or some other generally known type of portable communication device. The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network .

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented as operating system registry entries identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include attributes related to the user such as security information e.g. user name password photograph image biometric id address phone number etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user service request to the server device and the user identifier may be used by the server device to provide the user with access to service data and information stored by the server device in a manner as described herein.

The user device in one embodiment includes a service application that may be used by the user to access and or browse service data and information made available to the user by the server device over the network . For example the service application may be implemented as a network browser to display service data and information e.g. documents and or files related to an advisory service bulletin SB a service manual or service instructions provided by the server device over the network . In one aspect the service application may be referred to as a cell phone application without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In one implementation the service application processes relevant service data and information to provide an interactive process to guide the user through service and maintenance activities. The service application may generate one or more records of the responses to tests recordings evaluations and or assessments made by the user and stores the one or more records in a local memory component such as database .

In one implementation the service application provide portable access to large information data sets necessary to operate and maintain machinery such as a commercial airplane. The service application indexes and stores one or more complete manual sets necessary to maintain machinery. The manual data sets may comprise one to several million pages in printed document format. As described in greater detail herein service manual data sets may be retrieved from the server device stored locally on the user device and displayed for viewing by the user .

In one implementation the service application comprises an interactive software application that is downloadable to the user device . The user device is configured to display service data and information tailored to particular machinery as designated by the user via entry of a registry number of the particular machinery. Any user inputted data and information e.g. damage findings for an airplane may include scribe line damage may be categorized and stored in the user device . The user inputted data and information may be transmitted to the server device via the network and associated with the registry number of the machinery for storage in a database of the server device . This data and information may be associated with an appropriate work task assigned to the particular machinery. In various implementations the information types may be multimedia in scope e.g. single digit photo formatted email etc. . The resulting data and findings may be transmitted to one or more other server devices for long term activity performance recording and activity audit.

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more network interface applications which may be used by the user to display via a display component e.g. LCD and view tasks in response to operations selected by the user . For example the network application may display a graphical user interface GUI in connection with the service application for viewing of service tasks.

The user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide additional features available to the user . For example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more databases adapted to store and archive data and information including data and information from maintenance documents e.g. advisory service bulletins . In various embodiments the one or more databases may comprise a removable memory component such as a smart card and or an internal memory component such as a ROM component. One or more sets of maintenance documents e.g. AMM Part 1 2 Airplane Maintenance Manual Part 1 Systems Description Manual and Part 2 Maintenance Practices and Procedures IPC Illustrated Parts Catalog FIM Fault Isolation Manual Task Cards Subset of AMM for use by Mechanic or Planner MPD Maintenance Planning Document SRM Structural Repair Manual WDM Wiring Diagram Manual SSM Systems Schematic Manual CMM Component Maintenance Manual Engineering Blueprints REDARS Parts Lists and REDARS Drawings etc. for machinery such as an airplane may be downloaded and stored on the user device in database which may comprise various types of memory components such as an SD SD micro memory card. In one aspect the downloaded maintenance documents may be indexed in various ways using a unique indexer for optimization of fault information based retrieval. In various implementations the indexer may use noun phrase collocation and simplified English specific phrases and or grammar for indexing and organization.

The server device in one embodiment may comprise a network server adapted to operate as an interactive data storage facility and communicate with the user device via the network by transmitting and receiving service data and information over the network . The server device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one implementation the server device may be referred to as a service bulletin repository for recording service data and information e.g. documents and or files related to advisory service bulletins and service manuals sent to and received from the user device . The server device is configured to extract format and provide relevant service data and information for transmission to and reception from the service application of the user device .

The server device in one embodiment may include one or more server identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries identifiers associated with hardware of the server device or various other appropriate identifiers that identify the server device . The server identifier may include attributes related to a company or organization that provides the server device and or an administrator or operator of the server device . The attributes may be implemented as security information e.g. a company name address or phone number or operator name password photograph image or biometric id. . In various implementations the server identifier may be passed with a response to a user request in a manner as described herein.

The server device in one embodiment may include a processing application a network interface application a data conversion application and one or more databases . The network interface application in one embodiment may comprise a network communication device module and or application that allows the server device to communicate with the user device via the network to transmit and receive service data and information. For example in one implementation the network interface application comprises a communication component adapted to exchange data and information with the user via the user device over the network .

The processing application in one embodiment is adapted to download the service application e.g. an interactive software application to the user device e.g. a portable communication device over the network . The processing application is adapted to interact with the user via the interactive service application to exchange data such as service bulletin data with the user device over the network . The processing application is adapted to receive a request for service bulletin data related to at least one machine e.g. an aircraft from the user via the user device . The processing application is adapted to access service bulletin data related to the at least one machine from the database based on a registry number for example associated with the at least one machine passed with the request from the user . The processing application is adapted to transfer service bulletin data related to the at least one machine from the database to the user device via the network for viewing by the user on the display of the user device . It should be appreciated that in one aspect the processing application may be referred to as a central server application without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The data conversion application in one embodiment may comprise a data conversion mechanism or module that allows translation of part identification numbers into user readable information that may reference maintenance service and repair procedures from locally stored documents and or files related to advisory service bulletins and or service manuals. In one implementation the user may input into the user device a part number from a particular part of the machinery such as airplane and access specific topics in the service manual for specific information related to maintenance service and or repair procedures for that specific part. This allows the user to quickly identify and research the particular part directly in data and information stored locally on the user device such as a cell phone.

The database in one embodiment comprises one or more databases adapted to store and archive data and information including data and information from maintenance documents e.g. advisory service bulletins and or service manuals . As such in one implementation the database is adapted to store service bulletin data related to at least one machine such as an airplane or various other types of aircraft. One or more sets of maintenance documents e.g. AMM Part 1 2 IPC FIM Task Cards MPD SRM WDM SSM REDARS drawings CMM s REDARS Parts Lists etc. for machinery such as an airplane may be downloaded and stored on the user device in database which may comprise various types of memory components such as a hard drive. The maintenance documents may be indexed in various ways using a unique indexer for optimization of fault information based retrieval. In various implementations the indexer may use noun phrase collocation and simplified English specific phrases and or grammar for indexing and organization.

In one implementation the cell phone application processes relevant service bulletin data and information to provide an interactive process to guide the user through service bulletin activities. During these processes the cell phone application generates one or more records of responses to tests recordings evaluations and assessments made by the cell phone application user . The resulting data and findings are categorized and recorded on the cell phone via cell phone storage . This data may be associated with one or more appropriate work tasks at any given time. The information types may be multimedia in nature e.g. single digit T9 photo formatted email . The resulting data and findings may be transmitted to the central server operations via cell phone communications and data conversion and transmission for long term activity performance recording and activity audit.

In one implementation the cell phone application e.g. service application of comprises interactive software application such as a graphical user interface GUI of that is downloadable to a cell phone such as user device of . In reference to the cell phone application displays via a cell phone display service bulletin data and information tailored to a particular aircraft identified by user input via cell phone input of an entered registry number of the user s particular aircraft. The resulting data and information on damage findings e.g. scribe line damage is transmitted and associated with the registry number for storage in a database such as data store . Further description follows in greater detail in reference to .

Next the service application of the user device receives the service bulletin data and information from the server device via the network block . The service application unpacks the data and information block formats the data and information block and interactively presents the service bulletin data and information to the user as a maintenance process guide block . In various implementations the maintenance process guide is adapted to provide interactive process steps to the user block provide interactive reference support material to the user block and or provide interactive relevant engineering data to the user block .

Next the service application of the user device records necessary responses of the user from the interactive session with the user block . The service application then formats and packages the recorded response data for transmission to the server device block . Next the service application transmits the packaged response data to the server device via the network block .

Next the processing application of the server device retrieves and stores the service bulletin activity responses from the user as received from the user device via the network block . The processing application receives and coordinates user input responses such as cell phone data responses block . The processing application shreds the service bulletin data responses bock and stores the service bulletin data responses for review and analysis block . The processing application then presents an operator e.g. service administrator or engineer with the service bulletin data response results block which may be used for any necessary follow up.

The service application is adapted to receive the requested data and information from the server device via the network block . The service application is adapted to unpack the data and information e.g. using a generally known data protocol and format the unpacked data and information for storage in the database of the user device block . In one example as shown in the user device such as a cell phone includes the removable database to store data and information received from the server device via the network .

The service application is adapted to display the data and information to the user via the display component of the user device block . In one example as shown in the user device such as a cell phone includes the display component to display data and information received from the server device via the network .

In one aspect the requested data and information is interactively displayed and presented as a maintenance process guide that allows the user to selectively view search and or select one or more portions of data and information from advisory service bulletins and or service manuals downloaded from the server device using the method of . In one example as shown in the search application of the user device includes a search component that allows the user to search and select topics from the data and information received from the server device via the network .

In another aspect the interactively presented data and information provides procedural steps reference support material and or engineering data for maintenance service and repair of machinery such as an airplane. In one example as shown in the search application of the user device allows the user to search and select sub topics such as specific maintenance and inspection practices and procedures for selected topics from the data and information received from the server device via the network . As shown in portions of the data and information received from the server device may be printed or viewed by the user . shows one embodiment of a portion of the data and information received from the server device that may be printed or viewed by the user .

In various implementations the service application is adapted to record responses as inputted by the user during an interactive session block . In one aspect the responses from the user comprises data and information that may be stored in the database of the user device . The service application is adapted to format and package the recorded data and information for transmission to the server device via the network block . In one aspect data and information related to the recorded responses of the user may be packed or packaged e.g. using a generally known data communication protocol for transmission to the server device via the network .

In accordance with embodiments of the invention computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or removable memory component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes removable storage media such as removable memory component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media including wireless transceivers. In one example transmission media may take the form of radio waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the invention execution of instruction sequences to practice the invention may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the invention a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. wireless cell phone network wireless or wired LAN PTSN or various other wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in removable memory component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments of the invention may be implemented using hardware software or various combinations of hardware and software. Where applicable various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope and functionality of the present disclosure. Where applicable various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into subcomponents having software hardware and or both without departing from the scope and functionality of the present disclosure. Where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Embodiments described above illustrate but do not limit the disclosure. It should also be understood that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the disclosure is defined only by the following claims.

