---

title: Radar coasting during data dropout
abstract: A method for rapid convergence of radar target state includes the steps of using range acceleration to estimate perpendicular velocity and jump-starting a Cartesian state filter with the estimated perpendicular velocity. The improved estimate in the Cartesian state filter allows improved coasting of the range-state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08149159&OS=08149159&RS=08149159
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08149159
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081013
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number HQ0006 05 D 0003 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The received signals from receiver are coupled by way of a path to a tracking processor . Processor processes the measurements of the target and generates time sequences of estimated target location which are known as tracks or target tracks. The target tracks are continuously updated with current measurements and extrapolated to estimated future locations of the target. The results of this processing are estimated future target states and covariance. The estimated future target states and covariance are provided by way of a path to a fire control system illustrated as a block . Fire control block selects countermeasures appropriate to the threat and its state and initiates the countermeasures as by initiating control of an interceptor missile. The fire control information is provided to an interceptor missile and or its controller as suggested by block . An appropriate countermeasure is made as by launch of an interceptor missile of and guidance of the interceptor to an intercept point with the hostile missile .

The system of relies on a stream of measurement data from the sensors which in the illustrated scenario includes a radar system. The measurement data is a stream or time sequence t t . . . t t t . . . t of range range rate and azimuth and elevation angle measurements. The stream of data is subject to dropouts and the effects of target maneuvers which degrade the performance of the various filters used to estimate the target location and also tends to degrade the discrimination among various types of objects being tracked. This is particularly true in those cases in which the target separates into multiple objects such as booster decoys and payload.

Range state filter of receives the centrifugal acceleration information from block together with the measurement data from path and updates the filter range state. That is range state filter block provides information about target range target range rate and target acceleration. The range states provided by range state filter are provided to target discriminator block and by way of a portion of path to the fire control block of . Thus target discriminator block of receives the target range target range rate and target acceleration from block and also receives the track state information from block . Discrimination block produces object identification information. The object identification information from block is coupled by path to countermeasure fire control system of . The target state and covariance information are applied from blocks and over portions and of path to fire control system of . Ultimately this results in initiating interceptor missile or other countermeasure control for engaging the hostile missile.

A method according to an aspect of the invention is for generating target location and state to support trajectory coasting. This technique is of particular interest because of its capability in improving range state coasting. The method comprises the steps of Cartesian coordinate filtering range and angle information to thereby produce Cartesian coordinate state information having a first quality. Range and Doppler information are filtered to produce filtered range state including range acceleration. The instantaneous perpendicular speed is determined from the range acceleration. Cartesian velocity is estimated from the instantaneous perpendicular speed and from the Cartesian coordinate state information having a first quality and combining the Cartesian coordinate state information with the estimated Cartesian velocity to thereby produce Cartesian state information with a higher quality than the first quality. The estimated Cartesian velocity is propagated in time to thereby produce range acceleration information and the range acceleration information is combined with the range state estimate to thereby produce target location and state. A particular mode of the method includes the further step of discriminating among targets by kinematic estimation. A further mode comprises the step of initiating countermeasures to the targets in response to the kinematic estimation.

A method for determining the location and velocity of a target in terms of range state and Cartesian state according to an aspect of the invention comprises the steps of sensing the target with a radar to thereby generate measurement data and determining from the measurement data instantaneous range state and covariance. The method also includes the step of estimating from the instantaneous range state and covariance the instantaneous perpendicular speed of the target. The measurement data is converted into Cartesian coordinates to thereby produce measurement data in Cartesian coordinates. The measurement data in Cartesian coordinates is Kalman filtered to thereby produce filtered Cartesian states and covariance. The filtered Cartesian states and covariance are updated with the instantaneous perpendicular speed to thereby produce improved Cartesian states and improved covariance with improved target velocity. The improved Cartesian states and improved covariance are coasted at times when the measurement data is interrupted or is of questionable quality by the steps of 

In a particular mode of the method for determining the location and velocity of a target the step of computing the centrifugal acceleration is performed according to

Coasting is defined as estimating the states of the target when measurements are not available. The ability to coast a target is dependent upon the last known state of the target. In the prior art arrangement of the velocity which is part of the Cartesian states produced by Kalman filter of is fundamentally limited in accuracy when measurements are sparse.

The prior art tracks a target in Cartesian state as well as in range state. Range state is incomplete in describing the location of the target. However the information that range state provides is highly precise. The Cartesian state is more complete but measurement noise adversely affects its accuracy. In general a method according to an aspect of the invention provides improved range state coasting for ballistic targets using a limited set of radar observations or when the flow of radar observations is interrupted. In radar applications range state filtering converges very quickly because of the high precision of the range and Doppler data. Coasting in range state models is or may be less satisfactory than desired because of the difficulty of predicting the effects of gravity in the direction of the range vector. Also filtering in range state is subject to the effects of centrifugal accelerations. The effect of gravity and centrifugal accelerations on a ballistic target in Cartesian coordinates is easy to model. The problem with the Cartesian model is that it converges much more slowly than the range state filter because of the noisier measurements in cross range a direction transverse to the range direction . The method according to aspects of the invention takes advantage of the fast convergence of range filtering to jump start the Cartesian model. The improved state of the Cartesian model is used to predict gravity and centrifugal accelerations that influence the range states. Range state coasting is improved with these effects taken into account.

Tracking processor of is generally similar to but incorporates functions according to aspects of the invention. In block diagram of the received measurements are applied over path in common to an instantaneous range state filter and to a Cartesian coordinate converter . Cartesian coordinate information produced by converter is applied to a Cartesian Kalman filter . Cartesian coordinate converter and Cartesian Kalman filter are both essentially identical to those described in conjunction with . Instantaneous range state filter of produces instantaneous range state and covariance on a path for application to an instantaneous perpendicular speed estimator block and by way of path to fire control of . Perpendicular speed estimator block computes the instantaneous perpendicular speed of the target at the instants established by block .

The converted and filtered target states and covariance are applied from block over a path to Cartesian filter state updater together with the estimated instantaneous perpendicular speed from block . Cartesian filter state updater of takes the target states from the Cartesian Kalman filter and the target states from instantaneous perpendicular speed estimator block and updates or improves jump starts the Cartesian filter states. More particularly it reinitializes the Nth Cartesian velocity state X Y Z where the subscript N represents the Nth member of a sequence of K measurements N is typically thought not necessarily the mid point of the sequence using the following update 

The updated or improved Cartesian filter states are applied from Cartesian filter state updater to a coasting or coaster block and by way of a path portion of path to fire control block of . The Nth Cartesian state and range state range range rate are the starting point of the coaster block . is a simplified logic flow chart or diagram representing the steps performed in coaster block . In the logic begins at a START block . For each increment in time coaster block of 

Instantaneous range state filter block of includes a forward range state filter and a backward range state filter both of which receive the received measurements from path . Forward range state filter is a filter that processes measurements 1 through N as a forward sequence i.e. 1 2 3 . . . N . Unlike Cartesian Kalman Filter the effects of gravity are not modeled. Backward range state filter is a filter that processes measurements N through K in reverse sequence i.e. K K 1 K 2 . . . N 1 N . As with the forward range state filter the effects of gravity are not modeled. The filtered outputs of blocks and are applied to an averager or integrator block . Averager block of takes a mean average of the results of blocks and to thereby produce target states and covariance for application to path block and block .

Application of the method of the invention improves kinematic estimation in the event of shorter track segments such as track segment of . Such short track segments may be caused by lack of data the editing out or deleting of unresolved objects and the editing out or deleting of track segments which include maneuvers such as segment of . This last may be viewed as being or including the localization and or characterization of maneuver track segments.

A method according to an aspect of the invention is for generating target location and state to support trajectory coasting in region . The method comprises the steps of Cartesian coordinate filtering range and angle information from by way of to thereby produce Cartesian coordinate state information on path having a first quality. Range and Doppler information are filtered to produce filtered range state including range acceleration on path . The instantaneous perpendicular speed is determined from the range acceleration. Cartesian velocity is estimated from the instantaneous perpendicular speed and from the Cartesian coordinate state information having a first quality and combining the Cartesian coordinate state information with the estimated Cartesian velocity to thereby produce Cartesian state information with a higher quality than the first quality. The estimated Cartesian velocity is propagated in time to thereby produce range acceleration information and the range acceleration information is combined with the range state estimate to thereby produce target location and state on paths and . A particular mode of the method includes the further step of discriminating among targets by kinematic estimation. A further mode comprises the step of initiating countermeasures to the targets in response to the kinematic estimation.

A method according to an aspect of the invention for determining the location and velocity of a target in terms of range state and Cartesian state comprises the steps of sensing the target with a radar to thereby generate measurement data and determining from the measurement data instantaneous range state and covariance on path . The method also includes the step of estimating from the instantaneous range state and covariance the instantaneous perpendicular speed of the target. The measurement data is converted into Cartesian coordinates to thereby produce measurement data in Cartesian coordinates. The measurement data in Cartesian coordinates is Kalman filtered to thereby produce filtered Cartesian states and covariance. The filtered Cartesian states and covariance are updated with the instantaneous perpendicular speed to thereby produce improved Cartesian states and improved covariance with improved target velocity. The improved Cartesian states and improved covariance are coasted at times when the measurement data is interrupted or is of questionable quality by the steps of 

In a particular mode of the method for determining the location and velocity of a target the step of computing the centrifugal acceleration is performed according to

