---

title: High throughput chemical munitions treatment system
abstract: A new High-Throughput Explosive Destruction System is disclosed. The new system is comprised of two side-by-side detonation containment vessels each comprising first and second halves that feed into a single agent treatment vessel. Both detonation containment vessels further comprise a surrounding ventilation facility. Moreover, the detonation containment vessels are designed to separate into two half-shells, wherein one shell can be moved axially away from the fixed, second half for ease of access and loading. The vessels are closed by means of a surrounding, clam-shell type locking seal mechanisms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08047978&OS=08047978&RS=08047978
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08047978
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081029
---
This application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application 61 001 264 filed Oct. 30 2007 entitled High Throughput Chemical Munitions Treatment System and herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

The present invention relates to improved methods and devices for safely treating neutralizing and disposing of chemical munitions and other similarly toxic and or dangerous materials. More particularly the present invention relates to a transportable high throughput facility capable of semi continuous operation.

Recent attention to buried chemical weapon materiel has highlighted the need for remediation systems to destroy recovered chemical warfare materiel CWM at a substantially faster rate than can be done with systems currently used by the Project Manager for Non Stockpile Chemical Materiel PM NSCM . The attention has highlighted the fact that the PM NSCM s inventory of mobile remediation systems the Explosive Destruction System EDS and the Rapid Response System RRS were originally designed to address only small volumes of recovered CWM. These systems have worked very well and have achieved a significant degree of acceptance with the public and within the regulatory community. However the near continuous use of the existing four EDS platforms and the extension of the Chemical Weapon Convention deadlines have shown the throughput of these systems is inadequate to address many of the identified CWM disposal burial sites.

Devices for safely handling explosives are well known in the art. For example Fylling in U.S. Pat. No. 3 820 479 describes a mobile container in which an explosive such as a time bomb can be placed after discovery for transport to a suitable location for disarming. In includes a ballistic grille to vent explosion gases in an upwardly direction. Hickerson in U.S. Pat. No. 4 027 601 describes a container for explosive devices that includes inner and outer cylinders to substantially contain detonation fragments and the blast. This device is intended to transport improvised explosive devices IEDs or homemade bombs to a safe disposal area. Benedick et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 4 055 247 describes an explosive storage container designed to absorb and contain the blast fragments and detonation products from an unintentional detonation of the contained explosive or munition. Here again the device is designed to safely transport and store a munition and includes distinct layers to absorb the explosive energy. All of these devices are intended to provide a safe means for transport and or storage of an explosive but none are designed for purposeful detonation in order to destroy the explosive and none are gas tight or otherwise designed to treat toxic or hazardous chemical payloads.

Holmlund et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 4 478 126 describes a chamber for containing the effects arising from explosions or detonations whether initiated intentionally or unintentionally inside the chamber. The chamber comprises a cylindrically formed mantle with associated sealed ends. Ohlsson in U.S. Pat. No. 4 478 350 describes a spherical container or chamber to protect the surroundings by containing critical stages in the manufacture of explosives or to store or serve as a bunker for explosives. Ohlson in U.S. Pat. No. 4 621 559 describes a readily replaceable liner to be used in detonation chambers and capable of receiving fragments to mitigate the effects of splinters produced by explosions and in which only damaged parts of the liner need to be replaced and Ohlson in U.S. Pat. No. 4 632 041 describes a cylindrical blasting chamber which can contain high pressure and splinters produced by an explosion. The blasting chamber includes a double wall design such that explosive pressure is distributed fairly evenly between the inner and outer walls. However these devices are not intended to be used for the safe detonation and chemical treatment of explosively configured chemical warfare munitions.

Donovan in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 613 453 5 884 569 6 173 662 and 6 354 181 describes methods and an devices for containing and suppressing explosive detonations whether for the explosive working of metals or for the disposal of unwanted explosive munitions. The apparatus includes a linear array of vent pipes to vent the explosions gaseous combustion products for subsequent treatment in a scrubber. This apparatus includes a double walled steel explosion chamber anchored to a concrete foundation and double walled access and vent doors. Energy absorbing means such as water filled bags and conventional chain blast mats are also employed. This device is not intended to be readily mobile is not equipped for chemical neutralization nor is it gas tight so that it can safely contain toxic chemical warfare agents and byproducts.

Explosive chambers have also been developed for controlling and suppressing the detonation of explosives used for industrial applications such as surface hardening of manganese steel rail welding of metallic components and compression molding of components from powders. Most of these applications permit the release of the explosion combustion products into the atmosphere. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 419 862 and 4 100 783 issued to Hampel and Gambarov respectively. Dribas in U.S. Pat. No. 4 085 883 and Minin in U.S. Pat. No. 4 081 982 disclose spherical containment vessels for explosive working of metals the latter also including an internal liquid spray for neutralizing toxic byproducts of the explosion. Here again these devices are intended to explosively work or harden a workpiece are not intended to access the interior of the workpiece or otherwise destroy it and are not gas tight or otherwise suitable for disposal of chemical warfare munitions.

Sandia National Laboratories developed the EDS for PM NSCM in the late 1990s to provide a self contained transportable capability to remediate small volumes of non stockpile chemical munitions at recovery sites. The technology is summarized in U.S. Pat. No. 6 188 338 to Tschritter et al. herein incorporated by reference in its entirety as is a list of the constituents known to have been used in CWM weapons as are the commonly known remediation solution media. The EDS has proven to be a flexible capable effective and regulatory acceptable system to meet PM NSCM s mission requirements as these requirements were understood in the late 1990s. The successful operation of the EDS and a subsequently larger second generation version of EDS has proven the core technology but neither system was designed for high throughput or large quantity operations. Moreover these systems do not disclose a separate waste treatment system nor do they disclose an explosive containment vessel comprising two side by side cylindrical cups and a center seal system nor do they disclose a semi permanent fragmentation suppression system does the present invention no is a semi continuous batch operation anticipated by either. Consequently neither can meet the emerging needs for expected higher volume processing. However the current limited process rate is not inherent in the EDS technology. It is entirely feasible to build a much faster system while retaining the proven benefits of the EDS process.

In view of the foregoing and the enormous need for remediation of obsolete decaying and degraded munitions it is highly desirable to provide an apparatus which can be used to dispose of chemical warfare munitions in a safe and rapid industrial basis.

As first envisioned the EDS had a specific mission which was to chemically treat chemical munitions in emergency scenarios where the munition was not safe to transport or store. As such EDS was to fill a critical but limited role with no more than one or two uses per year. Since that time the role for EDS within the non stockpile program has expanded substantially.

Consistent with its intended application the EDS design emphasized transportability flexibility redundancy surety of destruction and the simplicity of manual operation. There was no emphasis on process time or throughput. Recently there has been much discussion about the need for systems with higher throughput for potential applications such as large CWM disposal burial sites. In this context some other technologies appear to offer advantages compared to the existing EDS. In fact the EDS process is not inherently slow. Therefore a new High Throughput Explosive Destruction System HTEDS is described herein which would provide an order of magnitude increase in throughput while maintaining all of the attributes and strengths that have made EDS successful. Besides increasing capacity the HTEDS would reduce operator effort increase capability in terms of the types and sizes of munitions reduce effluent and reduce unit cost of munitions disposal.

In response to this growing need the HTEDS will be designed with a 20 fold increase in capacity. The system optimizes proven EDS technology to achieve the following 

The projected 20 fold increase in throughput however considers only the results of optimizing the EDS design to form the HTEDS. Additional efficiencies would be created through enhancements to the overall site remediation operation achieved by applying a system of systems approach. This approach considers all aspects of the operation from site characterization to final waste disposal including locating characterizing and removing buried munitions storage of munitions and explosives munition destruction monitoring and process control and generation and disposal of dunnage or secondary waste. The result is an optimization of the entire process in terms of safety throughput and cost. Various technologies can be applied in a system of systems approach to move munitions seamlessly through the process.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a CWM remediation system for safely opening and neutralizing chemical munitions the system comprising at least two sealable explosive containment vessels and a separate waste treatment vessel and means for circulating a waste remediation fluid between the containment vessels and the waste treatment vessel.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a CWM remediation system that can operate on a semi continuous basis.

It is another object of this invention to provide sealable explosive containment vessels comprising first and second cylindrical cups or shells wherein the cups or shells are disposed horizontally to one another with their open ends facing each other and wherein one of the cups or shells is easily moved in an axial direction toward or away from the other cup or shell.

It is still another object of this invention to provide a circumferential clam shell or hoop clamp for closing and sealing the first and second cups or shells.

It is yet a further object to provide a CWM remediation system comprising a ventilation chamber surrounding the containment vessels.

It is again an object of this invention to provide a CWM remediation system comprising containment vessels having an improved semi permanent fragmentation suppression system.

The foregoing and other objects and advantages of the present invention will appear from the following detailed description. Both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed. In the description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which there is shown by way of illustration and not limitation preferred embodiments. Such description does not represent the full extent of the invention but rather the invention may be employed in different arrangements or configurations according to the breadth of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The core process steps for the HTEDS are generally the same as those used for the proven second generation EDS 

The HTEDS however achieves greater throughout in several ways 1 detonation and subsequent chemical treatment are performed in at least two separate explosive containment vessels in a semi continuous batch mode by alternating operations between each of the two vessels 2 the detonation containment vessels are larger to allow for processing more munitions at one time 3 the chemical agents contained within the munitions are treated in a separate waste treatment vessel in a semi continuous batch mode thereby freeing up the detonation containment vessels to process additional munitions and thereby eliminating the need for the current complex rotating containment vessel and 4 various sealing components including the vessel seal and the valve panel have been redesigned to reduce the time needed for each step and allow the operators to work more efficiently.

This two shell design represents a significant departure from the current EDS in that the design of the prior art containment vessel utilized a thick walled cylinder with a swing open door. In particular the HTEDS layout and process sequence allows the operation of the two containment vessels in an alternating manner by a single crew performing critical operations on only one vessel at a time. The process of closing and sealing the vessel is a time consuming element of current operations with the existing EDS which requires reaching into the vessel to place the CWM selected for disposal aligning and closing the door and then securing the door with several large individual clamps and a metal gasket. In contrast the HTEDS containment vessel comprises two cylindrical shells placed end to end with a seal and closure clamp system in the middle. Instead of a swing open door the two cylindrical pieces would spread apart axially providing for ease of loading.

In addition each of the two containment vessels and is surrounded by a separate ventilation means such as fume hoods and used to reduce the possibility of operator exposure to toxic agents and noxious fumes. As shown in HTEDS is also mounted on several skids and wherein skids and respectively hold detonation containment vessels and together with their respective ventilation units and while skid holds chemical agent treatment vessel together with the associated fluid handling hardware not shown and HTEDS controls . The skids eliminate the cost and complexity of the specialized trailer used with the second generation EDS but can be easily transported on several flatbed trucks so they have little impact on transportability. Furthermore connections between the skids are minimal so there is little impact on setup time and because everything is located close to the ground the equipment and controls are all easily accessible to the operations personnel eliminating much of the need for lifting munitions and heavy hardware.

Lastly the HTEDS further comprises an improved fragmentation suppression system detailed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 199 340 filed Aug. 27 2008 entitled Fragment Capture Device and herein incorporated by reference. The improved fragmentation suppression system shown in is generally comprised of at least two concentric and overlapping rows of steel rods and disposed about the interior circumference of each of the first and second containment shells and held in place by positioning plates and . The rods are removable but are intended to be attached to the interior on a semi permanent basis.

Several significant design changes have been made to distinguish the HTEDS over the prior art EDS. The first and probably most significant change is the incorporation of a separate treatment vessel to treat the chemical agent s associated with the CWM. The keys to implementing the proposed semi continuous bath approach is the ability to knock down vapor phase agents generated within the two containment vessels and after opening the CWM and the ability to effectively transfer the contents of the containment vessels into chemical agent treatment vessel . This is done by injecting hot water containing neutralizing reactant chemicals from chemical agent treatment vessel directly into the interior of containment vessels and through a fluid manifold and a series of spray nozzles built into the ends of each of these vessel such that a high pressure spray is used to provide vapor knockdown within the vessels and to scrub the interior surfaces of the vessels their interior hardware and all fragments of the CWM itself. Steam is also used to both heat the aqueous solution and to act as a solvent agent to solubilize and remove into solution toxic residues within the containment vessels and on the munition fragments.

A closed loop recirculation path using a canned motor pump such as the CPXR recessed impeller pump available from the Flowserve Corporation Irving Tex. or the MAXP series of pumps available from MAGNATEX Pumps Inc. Houston Tex. ensures total containment at all times. Canned motor pumps are used routinely for pumping hazardous fluids and are able to handle slurries and particulate laden fluids at temperatures pressures and volumes appropriate for this application.

Finally after the solution of neutralizing chemicals are injected into one of the containment vessels the vessel is left to soak for period of time before the fluid is drained and pumped back to the treatment vessel where it is left overnight for further reaction.

In designing the HTEDS it is important to establish how clean the containment vessel needs to be before it is open to load the next munitions. The most time consuming step in the current process is a hot water rinse required to decontaminate the vessel to below a predetermined detection level. The hot water removes small residues of polymerized agent s or heel from aged munitions that survives the normal treatment process. Repeated decontamination to this level is consistent with the expectation of treating a single munition and moving on. However in a high throughput scenario with back to back operations this level of decontamination is only required at the end of a campaign or at most at the end of each day. Since the HTEDS vessel is secondarily contained in a fume hood residual concentration between batches of a few TWA from agent heel should be acceptable.

However even if the hot water steam rinse is not done after each detonation it is still a required operation at the end of a campaign and perhaps more frequently. Instead of pumping in warm water and heating it in the vessel which takes several hours the HTEDS also uses a steam generator to inject steam into the vessel either separately or in combination with the liquid neutralizing stream. The steam attacks the residual heel more effectively than hot water it heats the vessel from the inside more quickly and efficiently than external heaters as are now used and it contacts all vessel surfaces.

Related to the use of a separate treatment tank is a second significant difference between the HTEDS and the current EDS the elimination for the need to rotate the primary detonation containment vessel. In the prior art system the chemical treatment of the contents of the munition is performed within the detonation containment vessel after the CWM had been cut open using shaped changes. However using the containment vessel to treat the CWM agent and the related waste requires heating and continuously rotating the primary containment vessel in order to agitate and mix the contents of the vessel. This practice is time consuming not only due to the underlying chemical reaction time but also due to the time needed to heat the substantial mass of the vessel and its contents.

By eliminating the need for using the containment vessel to treat the chemical agent s removed from the CWM the design and operation of the overall system is drastically simplified since there is no need for a rotation motor no drive train no electrical slip ring no trolley wheels and no stirring blades inside the containment vessel. Furthermore also eliminated are the various interlocks and safety features associated with adapting the containment vessel for rotation. In addition the clamps securing the two halves of the HTEDS containment vessel do not have to be disconnected from the clamp hangers and consequently the vessel closure system is also simplified. Finally fluid and electrical connections may be hard plumbed and wired to the vessel rather than having to use quick connect fittings.

Because the HTEDS containment vessels does not rotate it is possible to use a standard GRAYLOC PRODUCTS remote clamping system available from Oceaneering International Inc. Houston Tex. to secure the vessel instead of the custom designed sliding clamps and hydraulic nuts from second generation EDS. This eliminates the manual processes of sliding the two clamps together tightening the hex nuts actuating the hydraulic nuts and securing the hex nuts as well as the reverse processes at the end of the operation saving almost an hour in assembly time and reducing the level of effort for the operators. As already noted instead of the hinged door one end of the vessel rolls on rails toward and away from the other half. This also eliminates ongoing difficulties with door alignment and makes loading and unloading the vessel easier. The munitions and shaped charges are assembled on a platform or tray between the two ends of the vessel. When the vessel ends come together the tray slides into the vessel. Similarly during unloading operations the tray allows pulling out some large fraction of the fragments generated by opening the CWM.

A final difference is that each containment vessel is located inside a fume hood that is vented through an activated carbon filter. The hood reduces the inherent hazards associated with removing a munition from an over pack and loading it in the system particularly if the munition is leaking. Although some operations on the second generation EDS would be more difficult in a fume hood HTEDS alleviates these issues with a combination of design changes and remote operation.

The timeline for the HTEDS to process sixty CWM munition rounds during a 12 hour period is illustrated in the bottom half of and compared to that of second generation EDS to process only six rounds. This illustration highlights the throughput impacts of the design innovations of the HTEDS. The two detonation containment vessels are operated in parallel to enable five batches to be processed in a single 10.5 hour period. During this same period the treatment chemistry is performed as a separate batch operation in the treatment vessel. Since the HTEDS detonation containment vessels are twice the size of the second generation EDS vessel each can process twice the load of a single second generation EDS. Also note that individual steps in the process are much shorter. For example the simplified clamp for the containment vessel enables much faster closure. The combination of the fume hood surrounding the containment vessel and an innovative steam rinsing process greatly shortens the time required to prepare the vessel for the next load of munitions.

The current EDS process takes almost 20 hours over two days. The munitions are placed in the fragment suppression system with the shaped charges. The assembly is loaded into the vessel the door is sealed and the seal is leak tested. The shaped charges simultaneously open the munitions and destroy their bursters. Treatment or neutralization chemicals are then pumped into the vessel and the vessel is heated to 60 C. with external resistance heaters. Liquid samples are collected and analyzed to confirm destruction of the agent after which the effluent is drained to waste drums and the vessel is filled again this time with water. The water is heated to 100 C. to destroy any remaining heel. During both heating steps the vessel is continuously rotated on its axis to mix the contents and speed the reaction. After the vessel cools over night a gas sample is collected and analyzed the water is drained the vessel is flushed with helium and the vessel is opened. Solid debris is removed and the vessel is prepared for the next operation.

Therefore having described an exemplary embodiment of the present invention it should be noted by those skilled in the art that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not intended to be limited to the specific embodiment illustrated herein but is only limited by the following claims.

Finally to the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

