---

title: Method and system for monitoring and analyzing tickets
abstract: Exemplary embodiments include methods and systems for monitoring and analyzing tickets including collecting data associated with one or more parameters/keywords of tickets. The methods and systems may also include determining if a number of tickets associated the one or more parameters/keywords exceeds a count threshold associated with the one or more parameters. The methods and systems may further include outputting a result of the analysis of the collected data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706726&OS=08706726&RS=08706726
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08706726
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---
Monitoring and or analyzing tickets are a growing concern for service providers for example television service providers Internet service providers ISPs and telephone service providers as these services continue to grow. Reducing downtime and or avoiding issues associated with television Internet telephone services are an increasing concern to these service providers. For example a service provider may receive a large amount of tickets in a time period e.g. approximately 500 000 month reporting issues associated with the television Internet telephone services. Conventional monitoring and or analyzing of tickets may typically require service providers to manually access each ticket to collect information associated with the ticket thus this process may be tedious and time consuming. Also conventional monitoring and or analyzing tickets may require a manual analysis of the collected information in order to identify one or more issues and may be error prone because of a lack of standardized monitoring and or analysis methodologies. Moreover conventional monitoring and or analyzing tickets may rely on ticket reviewers to alert a service administrator or manager of issues associated with a service. As a result the service administrator or manager may miss an alert.

These and other embodiments and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the various exemplary embodiments.

A system and method in accordance with exemplary embodiments may include collecting data from tickets storing the data and or analyzing the data. In another exemplary embodiment the system and method may identify one or more keywords in the tickets and or analyze the one or more keywords based at least in part on one or more predetermined rules and or analysis e.g. weight age based analysis and or forensic analysis . In other exemplary embodiments the system and method may identify a geographical location associated with the tickets and or analyze one or more issues associated with the geographical location. In another exemplary embodiment the system and method may automatically display the data collected from the tickets to a user via a user interface e.g. an alert message . In addition the data may be displayed to a user via the user interface in response to comments received from a user. The displayed data may assist the user in real time troubleshooting and or post event forensic analysis. In other exemplary embodiments the system and method may generate one or more reports to inform a user of one or more issues associated with a service. Furthermore the system and method may generate an alert banner and or transmit the alert banner to the user to provide warnings of abnormal activity and or instability identified by the tickets.

The description below describes tickets servers computers terminals client devices and other computing devices that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly depicted others of which are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to executable software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices. It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

The one or more user devices may be a computer a personal computer a laptop a cellular communication device a global positioning system GPS a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance an Internet browser a paging an alert device a television an interactive television a receiver a tuner a high definition HD television a HD receiver a video on demand VOD system and or other any other device that may allow a user to communicate with the monitoring module via one or more networks not shown as known in the art.

A monitoring module may be one or more servers. The monitoring module may include a SQL Server UNIX based servers Windows 2000 Server Microsoft IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java sever Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HTTP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server and or other independent server to monitor and or analyze the tickets generated by the one or more inputs . Also the monitoring module may store and or run a variety of software for example Microsoft NET framework.

The internal data network may be coupled to the one or more inputs via a management Ethernet port not shown . The internal data network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example the internal data network may include without limitation Internet network satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku and or Band Ka wireless LAN Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Personal Communication Service PCS Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data satellite network IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g and or any other wireless network for transmitting a signal. In addition the internal data network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN global network such as the Internet. Also the internal data network may enable an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network an Intranet or the like or any combination thereof. The internal data network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other.

A user associated with the one or more user devices may interactively browse monitor and or analyze tickets generated by the one or more inputs to display various information associated with the tickets via the one or more user devices . For example the one or more inputs may include but is not limited to a customer representative an automated telephonic service an Internet website webpage a mail postal service and or other methods of communicating issues associated with services and or equipment. Also the one or more inputs may include telephone systems and or Internet servers. In an exemplary embodiment the one or more inputs may be a customer representative e.g. a live person and a customer may contact the customer representative via a telephone a computer and or in person. The customer representative may generate one or more tickets for the customer that is experiencing issues associated with services and or equipment. In another exemplary embodiment the one or more inputs may be an automated telephone service where a customer may dial into a telephone system to report issues associated with services and or equipment. The telephone system may prompt the customer for response to one or more questions and generate one or more tickets based on the customer s response. In other exemplary embodiments the one or more inputs may be an Internet website webpage hosted by an Internet server. For example customers may access the website webpage and report issues associated with services and or equipment. In an additional exemplary embodiment the one or more inputs may be a mail postal service where a customer may mail a letter and or a ticket to a service provider to report issues associated with service and or equipment. Also the one or more inputs may be located at various geographical locations e.g. various cities zip codes states and or countries for servicing users located at the various geographical locations. Further one or more inputs may be include one or more user input interface in order to allow the users to enter information associated with the issues of the services and or the equipment.

The presentation module may provide an interface between one or more user devices and the monitoring module . The presentation module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface to receive requests from a user e.g. a service administrator and or manager and to provide information and or data to the user via the one or more user devices . The presentation module may provide the data and or the results of the one or more analyses to one or more users via a message For example the presentation module may present the message via an alert and or a report to the one or more user devices in an electronic mail a text message a banner a voice message a letter and or other communications means to present the message.

In addition the presentation module may include an Application Programming Interface APT to interact with the one or more user devices . In response to receiving a request from a user e.g. a service administrator and or manager via the one or more user devices the presentation module may send requests or control signals etc. to the collector module the repository module and or the analytical module . In response to a request the analytical module may a receive data from repository module and or collector module b analyze the data and c provide data and or analysis results to the presentation module . The presentation module may provide the data and or analysis results to the one or more user devices for display. As a result system may allow the user to monitor and or analyze tickets generated by the one or more inputs in real time and or near real time.

Moreover the presentation module may include an alert dispatcher module not shown for alerting one or more users e.g. a service administrator and or manager in response to user specified conditions. For example a user may define a set of rules and or conditions upon the occurrence of such rules and or conditions an alert message may be generated to alert the one or more users. Such alert message may include date time parameters keywords number of tickets associated with various issues associated with the services and or equipment one or more set of rules and or conditions defined by a user an analysis of data collected from the tickets generated by the one or more inputs and or information associated with the defined rules and or conditions. For example a user may be alerted in cases of achieving a predetermined count threshold or value one or more count threshold crossing events instability in the operation of a network failure of network element network outage data corruption error in transferring data and or other parameters requested by the user. In an exemplary embodiment an alert may be automatically generated in the event that the number of tickets generated exceeds a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword for a period of time. For example a user may set a count threshold for tickets generated associated with one or more parameters keywords for one or more issues associated with the services and or the equipment for a period of time. In the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the one or more parameters keywords for one or more issues associated with the services and or the equipment exceeds the count threshold an alert may be generated. In an exemplary embodiment a user may set a count threshold to 500 tickets associated with missing channels for television services for a day. Therefore in the event that the number of tickets generated in a day associated with the missing channels exceeds 500 tickets a report may be automatically generated by the presentation module and presented to the user via the one or more user devices . The dispatched alert can take various forms including but not limited to electronic mail voice message paging alert text message and or other communication means to alert the user.

Furthermore the presentation module may include a report generator module not shown for generating reports. For example upon a user s e.g. a service administrator and or manager request a report may be generated periodically e.g. hourly daily weekly monthly yearly etc. The report may include date time number of tickets associated with various issues associated with the services and or equipment various parameters keywords and or analysis. Also a report may be generated automatically when a user is logged into the system in order to update the user of data and or analyses results since the last time the user was logged into the system . For example an outage in the services and or the equipment may occur during the previous day a report may be generated automatically and or upon a request by a user to inform the user of various parameters and or a number of tickets generated associated with the outage in the services and or the equipment. Thus a user may be informed of concerns issues and or repairs that may be needed associated with the outage of the services and or the equipment.

The collector module may interact with the one or more inputs . Through these interactions various parameters data associated with tickets generated by the one or more inputs may be captured. For example the collector module may sequentially and or simultaneously collect various parameters data from tickets generated by the one or more inputs . The collector module may use one or more methods to access the one or more inputs via the internal data network . For example the collector modules may access the one or more inputs via telephone mail Internet telecommunication network TELNET command line interface CLI secure socket header SSH simple network management protocol SNMP File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure Shell SSH and or other methods access and or collecting data from the tickets generated by one or more inputs . The collector module may provide the data collected from the tickets generated by the one or more inputs to the repository module . This data may include but is not limited to account information geographical information date time number of tickets associated with various issues associated the services and or equipment various parameters keywords associated with the tickets one or more sets of rules and or conditions specified by the user and or other data associated with the tickets. The collector module may preprocess the data collected from the tickets generated by the one or more inputs before transferring the data to the repository module .

The repository module may store and manage data from the collector module . The repository module may provide an interface e.g. a uniform interface for other modules within the system and may read write and search data in one or more repositories or databases. The repository module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. Also due to limited amount of storing space the repository module may compress store backup archive transfer and or discard the data stored within after a period of time e.g. a month. The repository module may provide data to the analytical module . Also the repository module may include one or more databases to store one or more inputs from a user. For example the inputs from the user may include keywords sets of rules and or conditions thresholds or values threshold crossing events search queries and or other inputs from the user.

The analytical module may retrieve data from the repository module and analyze such data. The analytical module may be in communication with the presentation module the collector module and or the repository module . The analytical module may further include a plurality of sub analytical modules to perform various types of data analysis. The analytical module may perform various analyses such as but not limited to counting analysis geographical analysis time series analysis forensic analysis and or pattern matching analysis. For example using the one or more user devices a user may select various types of data analyses to be performed. For example a user may select counting analysis where a number of tickets associated with a parameter keyword may be counted. Also a user may select geographical analysis where a number of tickets generated in a geographical location may be counted. The geographical analysis may also count a number of tickets associated with a parameter keyword in a geographical location. Further a user may select a time series data analysis where data collected at an earlier time may be compared with the current data. Moreover a user may select forensic data analysis where a user may select to analyze the data collected in the past. In addition a user may select pattern matching analysis where patterns associated with the data collected in the past may be matched with the current data. The analytic module may summarize and aggregate data retrieved from the repository module to provide a complete report of the tickets generated by the one or more inputs . In addition analytic module may transmit an alert report message to the presentation module to generate one or more alerts and or reports to the user.

Also the analytical module may update data stored in the repository module . For example the analytical module may transmit a request to update the data e.g. a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword stored in the repository module . The request may be based at least in part on one or more analyses performed by the analytical module in a period of time and or a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword stored in the repository module . For example the analytical module may perform a counting analysis where a number of tickets associated with a parameter keyword may be counted. The count threshold may be adjusted based at least in part on whether tickets generated associated with a parameter keyword exceeds a buffer amount and or lower than the buffer amount. In an exemplary embodiment in the event that the number of tickets generated that are associated with the parameter keyword exceeds the count threshold stored in the repository module the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to raise the count threshold. In another exemplary embodiment the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to raise a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated that are associated with the parameter keyword exceeds the count threshold by a buffer amount e.g. a number of tickets . Also the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to lower a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword is lower than the count threshold by the buffer amount. The buffer amount may be based at least in part on a calculation e.g. an average of the difference between the count threshold and the number of tickets counted for a week performed by the analytical module and or an input by the user. In an additional exemplary embodiment the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to raise a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword exceeds the count threshold for a buffer time period e.g. a number of days weeks months and years . Also the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to lower a count threshold associated with a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword is lower than the count threshold for the buffer time period. The buffer time period may be determined by the analytical module and or an input by the user. In addition analytic module may transmit an alert report message to the presentation module to generate one or more alerts and or reports to inform the user of the count threshold update.

In another exemplary embodiment the analytical module may transmit a request to update data e.g. one or more parameters keywords stored in the repository module . The request may be based at least in part on one or more analyses performed by the analytical module in a period of time. For example the analytical module may perform a counting analysis where a number of tickets associated with the parameter keyword may be counted. In an exemplary embodiment in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with a parameter keyword is less than the count threshold stored in the repository module the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to delete the parameter keyword. In another exemplary embodiment the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module increase a weight percentage e.g. importance to the services and or the equipment of a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword exceeds the count threshold by a buffer amount e.g. a number of tickets . Also the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to delete a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword is lower than the count threshold by the buffer amount. The buffer amount may be based at least in part on a calculation e.g. an average of the difference between the count threshold and the number of tickets counted performed by the analytical module and or an input by the user. In an additional exemplary embodiment the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to increase a weight percentage associated with a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword exceeds the count threshold for a buffer time period e.g. a number of days weeks months and years . Also the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to delete a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword is lower than the count threshold for the buffer time period. The buffer time period may be determined by the analytical module and or an input by the user. In other exemplary embodiment the analytical module may transmit a request to the repository module to add a parameter keyword in the event that the number of tickets generated associated with the parameter keyword exceeds an adding threshold. For example the adding threshold may be a number of tickets required to add a parameter keyword and may be determined by the analytical module and or an input by the user. In addition analytic module may transmit an alert report message to the presentation module to generate one or more alerts and or reports to inform the user of the updated parameters keywords.

For example one or more parameters keywords may be inputted by a user via the one or more user devices . The one or more user devices may communicate the one or more parameters keywords to the analytical module via the presentation module . The analytical module may retrieve the ticket data retrieved from the repository module and count a number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords inputted by the user. This may allow the user to focus on only the tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords inputted by the user. Also the one or more parameters keywords may be associated with one or more issues associated the services and or the equipment. Therefore by focusing on the one or more parameters keywords may allow the user to determine whether the one or more issues associated with the services and or the equipment is resolved. For example one or more issues associated with the services and or the equipment may be reported by one or more tickets and a service provider may try to resolve the one or more issues. In order to determine whether the one or more issues have been resolved the service provider may input one or more parameters keywords associated with the one or more issues into the system . The system may monitor and or analyze whether the tickets associated with the one or more issues are still being generated. In the event that the tickets associated with the one or more issues are no longer being generated the service provider may conclude that the one or more issues have been fixed. However in the event that the tickets associated with the one or more issues are still being generated the service provider may conclude that the one or more issues have not been resolved. In an exemplary embodiment a weather condition may cause one or more issues associated with services and or equipment. A user may input one or more parameters keywords associated with a weather condition to the monitoring module via the one or more user devices . For example the one or more parameters keywords associated with a weather condition may include lighting thunder tornado power outage voltage fluctuation and or other parameters keywords associated with severe weather. The monitoring module may count the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords. The monitoring module may determine that the number of tickets generated associated with the one or more parameters keywords exceeds the count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords. Therefore the service provider may determine that the weather condition may cause the one or more issues associated with the services and or the equipment.

Also the monitoring module may determine the difference between the tickets generated associated with one or more parameters keywords and the count threshold. Therefore the service provider may determine a severity of the issues associated with the services and or the equipment based on the difference between the tickets generated associated with the one or more parameters keywords and the count threshold. For example a count threshold for thunderstorm and or wind is set for 500 tickets. During a first time period the monitoring module may determine that 700 tickets are generated associated with thunderstorm and or wind and therefore 200 tickets exceeded the count threshold. During a second time period the monitoring module may determine that 1 000 tickets are generated associated with thunderstorm and or wind and therefore 500 tickets exceeded the count threshold. Therefore the service provider may determine that during the second time period the issues associated with the services and or the equipment is more severe than during the first time period.

In addition the monitoring module may determine a geographical location of the tickets generated associated with the one or more parameters keywords. Therefore the service provider may determine whether a geographical location is having a weather condition and the weather condition is causing the one or more issues associated with the services and or the equipment. For example the monitoring module may determine that 1 000 tickets are generated associated with thunderstorm and or wind. Also the monitoring module may determine that the input located at a Dallas Tex. generated 300 out of the 1 000 tickets generated associated with the thunderstorm and or wind. The monitoring module may also determine that the input located at Portland Wash. generated 700 out of the 1 000 tickets generated associated with the thunderstorm and or wind. Thus the service provider may determine that Portland Wash. is more affected by the one or more issues associated with the thunderstorm and or wind than Dallas Tex.

In another exemplary embodiment the monitoring module may determine a total number of tickets generated associated with a plurality of parameters keywords in a period of time. The monitoring module may determine a weight percentage e.g. priority for each of the plurality of the parameters keywords based on the number of tickets associated with each of the plurality of the parameters keywords. For example the monitoring module may determine that 1 000 tickets are generated in one day associated with missing channel power outage and voltage fluctuation. The monitoring module may determine that 200 out of the 1 000 tickets e.g. 20 are associated with power outage 300 out of the 1 000 tickets e.g. 30 are associated with voltage fluctuation and 500 out of the 1 000 tickets 50 are associated with missing channel. Thus the monitoring module may determine a priority of the plurality of the parameters keywords based on the weight percentage of the tickets generated associated with each of the plurality of the parameters keywords. For example the monitoring module may determine that missing channel 50 has a high priority voltage fluctuation 30 has a medium priority and power outage 20 has a low priority.

In other exemplary embodiments tickets generated by the one or more inputs may be collected by the collector module of the monitoring module . The collector module may pre process data associated with the tickets. The analytical module of the monitoring module may count the number of the tickets associated with one or more parameters keywords. The analytical module may access the repository module to obtain a count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords and or a buffer amount associated with the one or more parameters keywords. The monitoring module may identify one or more parameters keywords having tickets exceed the count threshold and the buffer amount associated with the one or more parameters keywords. For example count threshold for dropped calls may be set at 500 count threshold for set up box may be set at 600 and count threshold for routers may be set at 400. The buffer amount associated with dropped call set up box and or count threshold may be the same or different. For example the buffer amount for dropped calls may be set at 100 set up box may be set at 120 and routers may be set at 80. In the event that tickets generated associated with dropped calls is at 1 000 set up box is at 700 and routers is at 500 the monitoring module may identify one or more parameters keywords that exceeded the buffer amount. The monitoring module may identify that dropped calls and routers have tickets generated exceeded the buffer amount therefore the monitoring module may determine that the dropped calls and the routers may be important for the service provider to review. Moreover the monitoring module may determine which of the dropped calls and the routers has a higher priority based on a deviation from the count threshold. The deviation from the count threshold for dropped calls is 500 tickets e.g. deviation percent of 100 and for routers is 100 e.g. deviation percent of 25 therefore the monitoring module may determine that the dropped calls has a higher priority than the routers. After the analyses conducted by the monitoring module as described above the presentation module may generate an alert message report and provided to the service provider via the one or more user devices .

At block data associated with tickets may be collected. For example the collector module may collect the data associated with the tickets. The collector module may access the one or more inputs by transmitting one or more access request signals over an internal data network . The collector module may collect data associated with one or more parameters keywords of the tickets generated by the one or more inputs . Also the collector module may collect data associated with one or more parameters keywords inputted by a user of the tickets generated by the one or more inputs . Thereafter the collector module may transfer the collected data associated with the one or more parameters keywords of the tickets generated by the one or more inputs to a repository module . The repository module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to count thresholds parameters keywords buffer amount time period concurrent access backup and archive functions. After the collector module may collect data associated with the tickets the method may proceed to block .

At block the data collected may be analyzed. For example the analytical module may analyze the data collected by the collector module . The analytical module may retrieve the data associated with one or more parameters keywords of the tickets from the repository module . The analytical module may count the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords. Also the analytical module may count the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords in real time e.g. as rapidly as required actual time or about real time. Also the analytical module may categorize the tickets based on the one or more parameters keywords. In addition the analytical module may access the repository module to obtain a count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords. Moreover the analytical module may analyze the data associated with one or more parameters keywords based on a geographical location. After the analytical module may analyze the data collected by the collector module the method may proceed to block .

At block whether the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords exceeds a count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords may be determined. For example the analytical module may determine whether the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords exceeds the count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords. For example the analytical module may compare the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords with the count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords. After the analytical module may determine whether the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords exceeds the count threshold associated with the one or more parameters keywords the method may proceed to block .

At block an analysis result may be provided to a user. For example the analytical module may send an alert message report to the one or more user devices via a presentation module . Also in the event that the number of tickets associated with the one or more parameters keywords exceeds the count threshold the analytical module may generate the alert message report to the one or more user devices via the presentation module .

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

