---

title: Getter formed by laser-treatment and methods of making same
abstract: The present disclosure relates to methods of treating a silicon substrate with an ultra-fast laser to create a getter material for example in a substantially enclosed MEMS package. In an embodiment, the laser treating comprises irradiating the silicon surface with a plurality of laser pulses adding gettering microstructure to the treated surface. Semiconductor based packaged devices, e.g. MEMS, are given as examples hereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07910391&OS=07910391&RS=07910391
owner: SiOnyx, Inc.
number: 07910391
owner_city: Beverly
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080904
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 045 680 filed on Apr. 17 2008 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to laser treated silicon substrates that are capable of gettering and methods of making getters by laser treatment of a silicon substrate.

Getters are reactive materials used for removing traces of gas or moisture from various systems e.g. in wafer scale or wafer level packaging or in semiconductor manufacturing systems. In the electronics industry a getter material may be included within a chamber enclosing an electronic device e.g. a micro electro mechanical system or MEMS device or a semiconductor package to capture condensation or gases that may collect within the chamber during processing. In some cases a getter is included within a vacuum packaged electronic device to minimize the effects of any out gassing that may occur within the package. Getters are also used in field emission displays FEDs .

MEMS devices are commonly made with single crystal Si or polysilicon making it possible to fabricate them in semiconductor FABs. However to achieve economy of scale in packaging MEMS devices it is required to protect the released MEMS structure through the packaging line. Alternatively wafer level packaging can be employed. In either case the MEMS is typically protected by another piece of silicon with an open cavity to allow the MEMS structure to move. Condensation within this cavity after it is sealed is another common problem leading to device failure or device reliability issues due to changes in performance over time. Condensation of any kind is detrimental to the functioning of MEMS devices in particular as it may cause the MEMS structure to stick to neighboring surfaces. Condensation can also change the mass of the MEMS structure changing is responsivity.

The present disclosure generally provides laser treatment of materials to modify the surface of the materials in a way that facilitates gettering by the materials when used in an arrangement for example substantially within an enclosed product such as a semiconductor based MEMS device. The laser treatment is given to increase the surface area available to perform the gettering function in said devices and thereby enhance the capture and removal of certain materials by the surface of the material.

The laser treatment can be a pulsed laser of a selected intensity and type to create the desired surface features such as valleys and protrusions or cones as has been observed in black silicon. The treatment may include laser treatment in the presence of or under a vacuum a gas or a liquid such as water or oil.

An embodiment of the present invention is a method of treating a silicon substrate with an ultra fast laser to create a getter material. In an embodiment the laser treating comprises irradiating the silicon surface with a plurality of laser pulses wherein each laser pulse has a central wavelength of about 200 nm to about 1200 nm. In an embodiment the laser pulse width is about 50 femtoseconds to about 50 picoseconds. In an embodiment the number of laser pulses irradiating the silicon surface is about 2 to about 2000. In an embodiment the repetition rate of the laser pulses is about 1 kHz to about 50 MHz. In an embodiment the fluence of each laser pulse is about 1 kJ mto about 12 kJ m.

In an embodiment the substrate is treated in the presence of a dopant gas. In an embodiment the substrate s treated in the presence of SF. In an embodiment the substrate is treated in the presence of N. In another embodiment a dopant is provided in a solid form and may be deposited over the silicon substrate surface.

In an embodiment a silicon layer inside a cavity covering a MEMS structure is laser treated to convert the substrate surface into a getter material. The laser treatment process can be tailored to maximize surface area for gettering moisture or gases contained within the cavity.

The substrate surface can be further modified through the addition of selectee gettering films or layers. An embodiment includes applying a gettering layer to a laser treated silicon surface. The added gettering layer may comprise titanium zirconium thorium hafnium vanadium yttrium niobium tantalum or molybdenum.

The invention also comprises methods of enclosing an electronic device. According to an embodiment a method of providing a getter to a package for enclosing an electronic device is provided. The method comprises laser treating a silicon surface to convert the silicon surface to a getter and incorporating the treated silicon surface in the package wherein the treated silicon surface forms an inner surface of the package.

The invention comprises getter materials and semiconductor packages. In an embodiment a gettering material is provided comprising a silicon surface doped with sulfur or nitrogen.

According to another embodiment the invention includes a semiconductor package comprising a chamber enclosing an electronic device wherein the chamber comprises at least one wall wherein an inner surface of the at least one wall comprises a getter comprising nitrogen doped or sulfur doped silicon. In an embodiment the electronic device is a MEMS.

Yet another embodiment includes a method of providing a getter to a wafer scale package. The method comprises providing a package having a chamber wherein the chamber comprises an inner silicon surface and laser treating the inner silicon surface to form a getter within the package.

Some specific embodiments are directed to a semiconductor product designed and arranged to allow gettering in a capped enclosure including a substantially enclosed volume forming a capped enclosure to contain an article a pulsed laser treated semiconducting surface defining at least a portion of said substantially enclosed volume said treated semiconducting surface having an interior side thereof proximal to said substantially enclosed volume including microscopic features formed by pulsed laser treatment of said semiconducting surface that act as getter within said capped enclosure.

Other specific embodiments are directed to a semiconductor product including a first portion disposed on a semiconductor substrate for supporting an article to be enclosed in a protective enclosure a second portion including a cap formed therefrom for capping said enclosure said first and second portions designed and constructed to have corresponding features enabling coupling of said first and second portions to form said enclosure defining a substantially enclosed volume containing said article wherein an internal surface of any of said first or second surfaces or both includes features formed of a pulsed laser treatment and said features having a gettering characteristic to provide gettering within said enclosure once said first and second surfaces are coupled to one another.

Still other specific embodiments are directed to a method for gettering comprising treating a surface of a semiconducting material with a pulsed laser beam forming features on said surface as a result of treating said surface with said beam and placing at least a portion of said treated surface in an arrangement with other semiconducting articles to provide gettering within a substantially enclosed volume defined by said treated surface and said other semiconducting articles said treated surface being disposed with relation to said substantially enclosed volume such that said features formed as a result of said treating step provide gettering to said substantially enclosed volume and to articles within said substantially enclosed volume.

Other specific embodiments are directed to a method of providing a getter to a package for enclosing an electronic device comprising laser treating a silicon surface to convert the silicon surface to a getter and incorporating the treated silicon surface in the package wherein the treated silicon surface forms an inner surface of the package.

Another embodiment is directed to a semiconductor package comprising a chamber enclosing an electronic device wherein the chamber comprises at least one wall wherein an inner surface of the at least one wall comprises a getter comprising laser treated sulfur doped silicon.

Before the present devices and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes devices or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods are now described. All publications and references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Optional or optionally may be taken to mean that the subsequently described structure event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

A laser processed or laser treated semiconductor substrate refers to a substrate that has been modified by exposure to ultra fast laser treatment or a substrate that has been modified by exposure to short pulsed laser treatment. An ultra fast laser is one capable of producing femtosecond picoseconds or nanosecond pulse durations. The pulses are applied repetitively in some determined pattern or with some periodicity or being non periodic . The pulses do not need to all have the same duration. The surface of the substrate is chemically and or structurally altered by the laser treatment which may in some embodiments result in the formation of surface features appearing as microstructures or patterned areas on the surface and or the incorporation of dopants into the substrate. For example the laser treated substrate may include dopants that were present in a laser processing chamber during the treatment process. The substrate may be treated in the presence of for example a sulfur containing gas or solid or in a vacuum. Methods of laser processing a substrate are known for example those shown by Carey et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 7 057 256 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In one aspect the present invention provides a method of treating a silicon substrate comprising laser treating or laser processing the substrate. In an embodiment laser treating comprises irradiating a surface of the substrate with one or more laser pulses to create a getter. The laser pulses can have a central wavelength in a range of about 200 nm to about 1200 nm and a pulse width in a range of about tens of femtoseconds to about hundreds of nanometers. Preferably the laser pulse widths are in a range of about 50 femtoseconds to about 50 picoseconds. In an embodiment the laser pulse widths are in the range of about 50 to 500 femtoseconds. The number of laser pulses irradiating the silicon surface can be in a range of about 2 to about 20 and more preferably in a range of about 20 to about 500. Further the repetition rate of the pulses can be selected to be in a range of about 1 kHz to about 50 MHz or in a range of about 1 kHz to about 1 MHz. Moreover the fluence of each laser pulse can be in a range of about 1 kJ mto about 12 kJ m and more preferably in a range of about 3 kJ mto about 8 kJ m.

In some embodiments the semiconductor material is treated by laser pulsed radiation in the presence of or in contact with a vacuum a gas or a liquid. This can affect the surface and the shape and uniformity of its microstructure in a way to enhance the gettering effect as desired for a given application. For example the laser treatment can be performed in a vacuum or partial vacuum or it can be performed in the presence of a gas or it can be performed in the presence of water or oil to create the optimum gettering surface.

 Capacity of a getter or gettering capacity refers to the getter s ability to absorb moisture or contaminants. Getters produced according to the methods of the invention may be prepared to have various sorption capacities depending on the requirements of a given system.

Devices and methods for irradiating a silicon substrate are known in the art as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 057 256 incorporated herein by reference.

In an embodiment a silicon substrate is irradiated in the presence of a sulfur containing dopant and the resulting getter comprises sulfur from about 0.2 atom percent to about 0.7 atom percent.

In an embodiment a substrate is irradiated to create an undulating or micro structured surface morphology as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 057 256. Depending on the conditions of laser processing the surface morphology can range between having microstructures that are relatively variable in size shape and spacing to relatively uniform in size shape and spacing. In an embodiment the microstructures appear in a highly uniform pattern in which their sizes do not vary by more than 5 from one another. According to the invention highly uniform surface features or microstructures can be produced without the use of photolithography or an artificial scaffold.

For example the wavelength of an irradiating laser pulse its fluence and pulsewidth can affect the morphology of the nicrostructured surface. In general the fluence is preferably selected to be between about 1.5 kJ mand 12 kJ m but may vary depending on the substrate composition. Additionally the pulse length can affect morphology. Irradiation of a substrate according to the invention can be with femtosecond laser pulses or picosecond or nanosecond pulses. Other factors that can affect microstructures morphology include laser polarization and laser propagation direction relative to the irradiated silicon surface.

The fluid or solid in contact with the silicon surface during its microstructuring can also affect the resultant surface morphology. As known in the art the dopant gas or material used can be varied to control the shape size and density of microstructures on a substrate.

In some embodiments the laser microstructuring of a substrate is performed in the presence of a mixture of two or more substances. For example samples microstructured in the presence of a mixture of SFand Clexhibit an increase in the microstructure density at higher partial pressure of SF.

One aspect of the invention relates to annealing a silicon wafer subsequent to or simultaneous with its irradiation by a plurality of short pulses in the presence of a substance having an electron donating constituent under conditions that would release electrons in the microstructured layer. Thus in an embodiment a laser treated silicon substrate is annealed. In an embodiment the annealing temperature is selected to be in range of about 500 K to about 1100 K and more preferably in a range of about 700 K to about 900 K. Alternatively higher annealing temperatures can be employed. A substrate is annealed for a duration of about 1 minute to about several hours and more preferably in a range of about 5 minutes to about 30 minutes. To a certain extent annealing temperature and duration are inter related. For example shorter annealing time at a higher temperature can be employed in certain applications.

The choice of the fluence of laser pulses irradiating a silicon wafer to generate a microstructured layer therein can also affect the gettering performance capacity and or specificity of a microstructured substrate. In general in various embodiments of the invention the laser pulse fluence is selected to be greater than about 3 kJ m. More preferably the fluence is chosen to be in a range of about 3 kJ mto about 10 kJ m or a range of about 3 kJ mto about 8 kJ m.

In an embodiment of the invention an n doped silicon substrate is employed for forming a microstructured substrate as described above. Alternately a p doped silicon substrate can be utilized.

In an embodiment a laser treated silicon substrate prepared according to the invention may be activated to provide additional gettering capacity. That is the substrate following use or deterioration of gettering properties can be heated to cause a passivation layer at the surface to diffuse into the substrate resulting in a getter surface onto which additional impurities or gases may adsorb. Heat sources for activation may include radiofrequency laser or an oven and heating may be in the range of about 250 C. to about 450 C.

In an embodiment the laser treated silicon substrate of the invention can be further modified by applying a getter layer or film to the microstructured surface. Thus the invention includes a method of making a getter by applying a getter film or layer to a sulfur doped silicon substrate. In an embodiment the getter layer or film is applied by sputter deposition. The getter film or layer may be evaporable or non evaporable depending on the desired performance. In an embodiment the getter layer or film formed on the laser treated silicon substrate is a getter and comprises titanium zirconium thorium hafnium vanadium yttrium niobium tantalum or molybdenum. Additional getter materials may be used as are known in the art. In another embodiment the getter layer or film is an alloy for example a zirconium based alloy. In an embodiment the getter layer is barium. An embodiment of the invention includes a sulfur doped silicon substrate having a patterned surface and comprising a getter layer or film.

A getter film or layer when included may be actuated to provide additional gettering capacity. That is the getter layer or film can be heated to cause a passivation layer at the surface to diffuse into the getter resulting in a getter surface into which additional impurities or gases may absorb. A variety of heat sources for activation are known in the art and may include for example radiofrequency laser or an oven and heating may be in the range of about 250 C. to about 450 C.

In an embodiment a laser treated surface comprises an adhesion layer between the silicon layer and the applied getter layer or film. An adhesion layer may comprise Ta Ti or TiW. According to an alternative embodiment a gettering layer is applied to a laser treated silicon substrate without including an adhesion layer.

The present invention should not be considered limited to the particular embodiments described above but rather should be understood to cover all aspects of the invention as fairly set out in the attached claims. Various modifications equivalent processes as well as numerous structures to which the present invention may be applicable will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present intention is directed upon review of the present specification. The claims are intended to cover such modifications and devices. The invention and embodiments thereof illustrating the method and materials used may be fisher understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

