---

title: Process for preparation of rosuvastatin calcium field of the invention
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08212035&OS=08212035&RS=08212035
owner: Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.
number: 08212035
owner_city: Hyderabad
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20080204
---
The present invention related to an improved process for preparing E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium of Formula I 

Rosuvastatin which is an antihyperchlolesterolemic drug is chemically known as E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium 2 1 salt of Formula I.

Rosuvastatin was for the first time disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440. Rosuvastatin is being marketed under the proprietary name CRESTOR as an oral tablet for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia.

In view of the importance of rosuvastatin as a lipid lowering agent several synthetic methods have been reported in the literature to prepare rosuvastatin some of which are summarized below 

U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 disclose a process for preparing rosuvastatin in examples. The process is as shown below 

The difficulties in the above process are that the intermediate A is not obtained in pure form readily. Further its purification is tedious and overall yield is extremely low. Even when intermediate A is obtained in pure form further condensation with intermediate 11 to form rosuvastatin does not result in rosuvastatin of right quality as the product contains unacceptable quantity of impurity levels.

WO 03 097614 A2 describes a modified procedure for the preparation of the starting material 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 carboxaldehyde and its further conversion to rosuvastatin by condensing with methyl 3R 3 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 5 oxo 6 triphenylphosphoranylidene hexanoate. The condensed product was deprotected using methanesulfonic acid and subsequently converted to rosuvastatin calcium 2 1 salt.

WO 2004 052867 A1 describes a process to prepare rosuvastatin by condensing 1 cyano 2S 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 4 oxo 5 triphenylphosphoranylidenepentane with 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 carbaldehyde and subsequent deprotection of silyl group followed by reduction and hydrolysis.

WO 2000 049014 A1 discloses a novel chemical process for the manufacture of tert butyl E 6 2 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl vinyl 4R 6S 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl acetate which comprises reaction of diphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl methylphosphineoxide with tert butyl 2 4R 6S 6 formyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl acetate and its further conversion to rosuvastatin.

WO 2004 014872 A1 describes a process for the manufacture of rosuvastatin calcium 2 1 salt which comprises mixing a solution of calcium chloride with a solution of water soluble salt of E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid. This process for the preparation of rosuvastatin employs the use of phosphorane side chain the preparation of side chain requires eight synthetic steps and involves expensive reagents. The process is both uneconomical and time consuming hence not appropriate for commercial scale operation.

In the above scheme R R Rrepresent substituted or unsubstituted phenyl and Rrepresents an aliphatic residue selected from C Calkyl Rrepresents C Calkyl which is optionally substituted by hydroxyl Rrepresents hydrogen halogen C Calkyl or C Calkoxy Rrepresents aliphatic residue Rrepresents C Calkyl.

In the above mentioned scheme R R Rare substituted or unsubstituted phenyl and Ris an aliphatic residue selected from C Calkyl Rrepresents C Calkyl M is an alkali metal salt 

X represents a halogen Rrepresents C Calkyl which is optionally substituted by hydroxyl Rrepresents hydrogen halogen C Calkyl or C Calkoxy Ris an aliphatic residue selected from C Calkyl.

As mentioned above though there are a number of processes available still there is a continuing need to identify alternative processes for the manufacture of rosuvastatin and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Such processes may for example when compared to previously known processes be more convenient to use be more suitable for large scale manufacture give the product in a better yield reduce the number of steps involved use intermediates which are more easily isolated require less complex purification techniques use less expensive reagents and or be more environmentally friendly.

We have now found an improved process for preparing E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium of Formula I

The objective of the present invention is to provide an improved process for preparing E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium with high yield and high purity.

In yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an improved process for preparing E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium which is simple industrially applicable and economically viable.

The present invention relates to an improved process for preparing E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium of Formula I 

The compound of Formula III is protected with a suitable hydroxy protecting group selected from tert butyldimethylsilyl chloride dihydropyran trimethylsilylchloride methoxymethyl chloride more preferably tert butyldimethylsilyl chloride. The hydroxy protection is carried out in an organic solvent in presence of bases like imidazole triethylamine. The usage of base is essential for completion of silylation. The organic solvent used for the above silylation reaction is selected from tetrahydrofuran dimethoxy ethane dioxane dichloromethane ethylene dichloride N N dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide N methylpyrrolidinone sulfolane more preferably N N dimethylformamide etc. Also during this silylation reaction a suitable additive is added to accelerate silylation which is selected from sodium iodide potassium iodide lithium iodide etc. The reaction is conducted at a temperature in the range of 0 128 C. more preferably 50 80 C. The compound of Formula IV is isolated as an oily mass which is sufficiently pure for the next step.

The hydroxy protected compound of Formula IV is treated with acid activator like 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole or methyl chloroformate ethyl chloroformate phenyl chloroformate 4 methoxyphenylchloroformate 4 chlorophenylchloroformate 2 4 dinitrophenylchloroformate 4 trifluoromethylphenylchloroformate 4 nitrophenylchloroformate 2 nitrophenylchloroformate etc more preferably 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole. This reaction is carried out in presence or absence of organic base. The organic base is selected from triethylamine pyridine etc. The resulting activated imidazolimide intermediate is subsequently treated with magnesium complex of monoalkyl malonate or zinc complex of monoalkyl malonate.

Magnesium complex of monoalkyl malonate can be prepared by treating 2 moles of malonic acid mono alkyl ester with 1 mole of magnesium ethoxide. This homologation is conducted at a temperature between 0 100 C. preferably at ambient temperature. The organic solvent used in the homologation is selected from tetrahydrofuran N N dimethylformamide methylene dichloride acetonitrile or mixtures thereof.

Zinc complex is prepared by reacting dialkyl zinc with 2 moles of lower alcohol preferably ethanol in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran toluene hexane methyl tert butyl ether isopropyl ether or mixtures thereof at 10 C. to 40 C. preferably 5 to 25 C. 1 to 5 moles of monoalkyl malonate preferably 2 to 3 moles are added to this reaction mixture and stirred for 5 h 15 h preferably 6 12 h.

Zinc complex is prepared by reacting dialkyl zinc with 1 to 5 moles of monoalkyl malonate preferably 2 to 3 moles in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran toluene hexane methyl tert butyl ether isopropyl ether or mixtures thereof at ambient temperature for 5 h to 15 h preferably 6 h to 12 h.

Zinc complex is prepared by reacting zinc oxide with 1 to 5 moles of monoalkyl malonate in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran toluene hexane methyl tert butyl ether isopropyl ether or mixtures thereof at ambient temperature for 5 h to 10 h. The water formed during the course of reaction is co distilled with an inert solvent such as toluene.

The metal complex of Formula V is treated with acid activated compound of Formula IV in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran acetonitrile toluene methyl tert butyl ether isopropyl ether or mixtures thereof at 0 to 40 C. preferably 10 C. to 25 C. for 8 h to 25 h preferably 10 h to 24 h to yield a compound of Formula VI. During the workup of this reaction a compound of Formula VI a which is generated in situ

The deprotection of the compound of Formula VI to yield product of Formula VII is carried out using acids having a general Formula HX wherein X represents halide or MX wherein X represents halogen M is cation derived from inorganic metal like Na K Li etc or organic amine like N R where in R represents C Calkyl straight or branched chain alkyl sulfonic acids such as para toluene sulfonic acids methanesulfonic acids trifluormethane sulfonic acid organic acids such as formic acid trifluroacetic acid acetic acid in aqueous solvent or in a mixture of organic solvent at room temperature. The reaction is preferably conducted in organic solvent water or mixtures thereof. The organic solvent can be selected from tetrahydrofuran acetonitrile methanol ethanol dichloromethane ethylene dichloride toluene xylene etc.

The compound of Formula VII is stereoselectively reduced with metal borohydride in presence of chelating agent like trialkylborane or boronates selected from dialkyl alkoxy boran such as diethyl methoxy borane diethyl ethoxy borane dimethyl ethoxy borane dimethyl methoxy borane more preferably diethyl methoxy borane. The stereoselective reduction is carried out in a mixture of inert solvent preferably tetrahydrofuran and lower alkanol more preferably methanol at 78 C. to 0 C. The metal borohydride employed is selected from sodium borohydride potassium borohydride calcium borohydride more preferably sodium borohydride. After completion of reaction excess borohydride is destroyed by acetic acid and resulting compound of Formula VIII is extracted into an organic solvent. The organic layer is concentrated under reduced pressure to give crude compound of Formula VIII which is purified or used as such for hydrolysis.

Saponification of compound of Formula VIII is carried out using a base such as alkali metal hydroxide selected from sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide calcium hydroxide. Preferably sodium hydroxide is used. The sodium salt of rosuvastatin thus obtained can be optionally isolated or the solution containing of rosuvastatin sodium is treated with benzathine acetate to get the corresponding benzathine salt which can be further converted to rosuvastatin calcium. Alternatively aqueous sodium salt of rosuvastatin can be treated with calcium ion source to give rosuvastatin calcium.

The invention is illustrated with the following examples which are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention.

20 w v Diethyl zinc in toluene 10 ml was added to toluene 50 ml and cooled to 10 15 C. Ethanol 1.9 ml was added at the same temperature to the reaction mixture and stirred for 12 h at 25 30 C. Thereafter the resulting clear solution was treated with a solution of monoethyl malonate 3.91 g in toluene 50 ml and stirred for 6 h at room temperature. Ethanol a by product from the reaction mass was removed by co distillation with toluene at 40 45 C. The resulting mass was diluted with toluene and further treated with a solution of Imidizolyl 4E 5 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3S 3 t butyldimethylsilyloxy pentenoate 6 g in toluene 30 ml at room temperature and the reaction mass was stirred for 40 h for completion of coupling reaction. After the reaction mass was quenched with 5 aqueous citric acid. The separated organic layer was washed with aqueous bicarbonate and finally with water. The crude product obtained after evaporation of solvent was purified by column chromatography. Silica gel Hexane Ethylacetate mixture 

Zinc oxide 0.243 g was suspended in toluene 50 ml and monoethyl malonate 1.45 g in toluene 10 ml was added at 25 30 C. and stirred for 3 h. To the resulting clear solution imidazolyl 4E 5 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3S 3 t butyldimethylsilyloxy pentenoate 1.85 g in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added at 20 30 C. and stirred the reaction mass at room temperature for 18 h. After the completion of coupling reaction the reaction mass was quenched by the addition of aqueous citric acid and the organic layer was separated and washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate followed by water. The organic layer was concentrated to yield crude compound. The crude compound obtained after evaporation of solvent was purified by column chromatography to yield the compound in pure form.

20 w w Diethyl Zinc in toluene 10 ml was diluted with toluene under Natmosphere at 0 5 C. and then treated with a solution of monoethyl malonate 3.91 g in toluene 10 ml at 20 30 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 4 h at 25 30 C. for complex formation and further treated with imidazolyl 4E 5 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N ethylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5yl 3 S 3 t butyldimethylsilyloxy pentenoate 5.5 g in toluene 15 ml and stirred at room temperature for 21 h for completion of coupling reaction and product precipitates out. The crude compound obtained was purified by column chromatography.

Diethyl zinc 10 ml 1M solution in hexane was added to tetrahydrofuran 20 ml at 10 15 C. and a mixture of ethanol 0.92 gm 0.02 mol and tetrahydrofuran 2ml was added drop wise into the above diethyl zinc solution over a period of 10 15 min. The reaction mass was stirred at the same temperature for 30 min and mono t butyl malonate 3.2 gm 0.02 mol was added to the reaction mass drop wise after diluting with tetrahydrofuran 10 ml . The mixture was stirred for two hours and imidazolyl 5 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3S 3 t butyldimethylsilyloxy heptenoate 2.5 gm dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was added to it slowly over a period of 20 min. The reaction was stirred for 16 h at 20 25 C. and quenched by adding water 20 ml drop wise into the reaction mixture. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 25 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with water 50 ml and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled out under reduced pressure 50 100 mm Hg at 35 40 C. to obtain the crude product as an oily mass which was further purified by column chromatography using hexane ethyl acetate. 9 1 v v as an eluant.

t Butyl 6E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 5S 5 t butyl dimethylsilyloxy 3 oxo heptenoate 2.5 gm was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml at 25 30 C. and tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride 5 ml 1M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to it drop wise over a period of 15 min. The mixture was stirred for 30 min at 25 30 C. and quenched with aqueous sodium carbonate 25 ml 10 w v . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 25 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with D.M water 25 ml and solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure at 35 40 C. to obtain the product as an oily mass. The product obtained was used as such for the subsequent reaction without further purification.

t Butyl 6E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 5S 5 hydroxy 3 oxo heptenoate 2 g 0.003 mol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 54 ml and methanol 14 ml at 25 30 C. under nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and diethylmethoxy borane 1 ml 48 solution in tetrahydrofuran 0.004 mol was added to it drop wise at 78 C. over a period of 10 min. The mixture was stirred at 75 C. to 78 C. for one hour and sodium borohydride 0.14 gm 0.003 mol was added to it slowly over a period of 15 min. It was stirred for 2 h at 75 C. to 78 C. and quenched by adding acetic acid 2 ml at 78 C. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 ml was added to it and stirred for 15 min. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 25 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with water 25 ml and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled out at 35 40 C. under reduced pressure to obtain the title compound.

Ethyl 6 E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 5S 5 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 oxo heptenoate 5 g in acetonitrite 3 ml was added to aqueous hydrofluoric acid 6.2 ml 48 w w at 0 5 C. in 15 min. The temperature of the reaction mass was raised to 25 30 C. and stirred for 2 h for completion of silyl cleavage. The reaction mixture was basified with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The ethyl acetate layer was washed with water dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated to give crude product 3 g . The crude product obtained was purified using column chromatography with ethyl acetate hexane as eluant to yield pure title compound as an oil.

tert Butyldimethylsilyl chloride 7.6 g 0.05 mol was dissolved in N N dimethylformamide 25 ml and anhydrous potassium iodide 8.4 g 0.05 ml was added to it at 25 C. The mixture was heated to 60 C. and stirred for 30 min. Triethylamine 7 g 0.06 mol was added to the above hot reaction mixture and stirred for 10 min at 60 C. Subsequently 4E 5 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyridin 5 yl 3S 3 hydroxy 4 pentenoic acid 10 g 0.02 mol was dissolved in N N dimethylformamide 25 ml and added to the above reaction mixture drop wise over a period of 30 min at 60 C. The reaction mass was further stirred at 60 C. for 2 h and cooled to room temperature. The reaction mass was quenched by adding DM water 50 ml and product was extracted in toluene 2 50 ml . The toluene layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate 50 ml followed by aqueous saturated sodium chloride 50 ml . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to yield title compound as an oily mass which was pure enough for the subsequent reaction.

 4E 5 4 4 Fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3S 3 O tert butyldimethylsilyl 4 pentenoic acid 10 g 0.018 mol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 180 ml and a solution of 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 5.3 g 0.03 mol in tetrahydrofuran 30 ml was added to the above reaction mass drop wise over a period of 30 min. The reaction mass was stirred overnight and magnesium salt of ethyl malonate prepared in situ by stirring magnesium alkoxide 2.27 g and monomethyl malonate 5.0 g in tetrahydrofuran 30 ml at 25 C. was added drop wise into the reaction mass. The reaction mass was stirred for additional 20 h. After completion of the reaction tetrahydrofuran was distilled out and redissolved the mass in a mixture of toluene 500 ml and ethyl acetate 100 ml . The resulting organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium carbonate 500 ml followed by DM water 2 500 ml . Thereafter the organic layer was concentrated completely at 45 50 C. under reduced pressure to obtain the crude title compound. The crude compound obtained was used for the subsequent reaction without further purification.

Ethyl 6E 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 5S 5 O tertbutyldimethylsilyl 3 oxo hept 6 enoate 10 g 0.016 mol was dissolved in acetonitrile 250 ml at 25 C. and the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. Hydrofluoric acid 48 15 ml was diluted in acetonitrile 250 ml and added slowly to the above reaction mass over a period of 20 min at 0 5 C. After addition the reaction mass was quenched by addition of 10 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with DM water 50 ml and solvent distilled out under vacuum at 40 45 C. to obtain the product as an oily mass.

Ethyl 6E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 5S 3 oxo hept 6 enoate 10 g 0.02 mol was dissolved in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 500 ml and methanol 70 ml at 25 C. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and diethylmethoxyborane 48 in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml 0.02 mol was added to the above cooled reaction mass at 75 C. to 78 C. over a period of 20 min. The reaction mass was stirred at 75 C. to 78 C. for 30 min before adding sodium borohydride 1 g 0.02 m . The mixture was stirred for another 2 h at 78 C. and quenched by adding acetic acid 13 g . Thereafter saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 500 ml was added to it and the organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 250 ml and the combined organic layer was washed with DM water 250 ml . The organic layer obtained during the above process was concentrated at 40 45 C. under vacuum to get the crude product which was used for hydrolysis as such without further purification.

Ethyl 6E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl aminopyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoate 1 g was dissolved in ethanol 12 ml at 25 30 C. and added 0.1N NaOH 16 ml in 15 min at 25 30 C. under reduced pressure. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h at 25 30 C. and ethanol was removed completely. Under reduce pressure DM water 25 ml was added to the concentrated mass and washed with toluene 2 50 ml . Finally the aqueous layer was washed with 30 ethyl acetate and toluene mixture 2 50 ml . To the aqueous layer added a solution of benzathine diacetate 1 g dissolved in DM water 10 ml at 25 30 C. and stirred for 3 hrs at 25 30 C. The resulting product was filtered washed with DM water 5 ml and dried to constant weight to yield the title compound.

N N Dibenzylethylenediamine rosuvastatin salt 2 g was dissolved in a mixture of ethyl acetate 30 ml and DM water 30 ml and cooled to 0 5 C. The above cold mixture was treated with aqueous hydrochloric acid 3 ml at 0 5 C. The resulting clear solution was stirred for 10 min. The organic layer was separated washed with water and cooled to 0 5 C. Aqueous sodium hydroxide 1 N 30 ml was added to the above organic layer and stirred at room temperature for 30 min for conversion of rosuvastatin acid to it sodium salt. Toluene 70 ml was added to the above mixture and stirred for 10 min. The aqueous layer was separated and traces of solvent were removed at 40 45 C. under vacuum. The resulting clear aqueous layer was treated with an aqueous solution of calcium chloride 1N 3 ml and resulting rosuvastatin calcium was filtered and dried.

 3R 5S 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6E heptenoic acid ethyl ester 5 g was dissolved in a mixture of ethanol 25 ml and tetrahydrofuran 2.5 ml at 20 25 C. under stirring. The reaction mass was cooled to 10 15 C. and 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 9.82 ml was added slowly at 10 15 C. over a period of 20 25 min. Thereafter the reaction mass was stirred for 2 3 h at 20 25 C. and then concentrated under reduced pressure. A mixture of water 48 ml ethanol 1.5 ml and tetrahydrofuran 1 ml was added to the above reaction mass. The reaction mass was washed with a mixture of toluene 30 ml and ethylacetate 20 ml . After washing the aqueous layer was concentrated to a volume of approximately 35 ml at 35 40 C. and cooled to 25 30 C. Aqueous calcium chloride 25 ml 1.44 g of calcium chloride dihydrate was dissolved in 14 ml of water and the volume was make up to 25 ml was added to the above aqueous layer at 25 30 C. over a period of hr and stirred the suspension for 3 h. The product obtained was filtered and dried under reduced pressure at 35 40 C. till the moisture content is approximately 1.8 to 2 .

A mixture of hexamethyldisilazane 33.5 ml 0.15 mol and tetrahydrofuran 50 ml was cooled to 10 C. under nitrogen atmosphere. n Butyllithium 3.92 ml 14 in Hexanes was added over a period of 20 min Exothermic keeping the temperature below 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 to 5 C. for 15 min and then cooled to 35 C. before adding 2 S acetoxy 1 1 2 triphenylethanol 4.84 g 0.014 mol over a period of 5 min. The temperature of the reaction mixture was allowed to go up to 15 C. and stirred for 45 min. The resulting homogeneous yellow solution was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl propenal 5 g 0.013 mol in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was added over a period of 30 min maintaining the temperature at 75 to 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 40 min at 78 C. and then slowly raised the temperature to 0 C. over a period of 20 min. The reaction mass was quenched by adding aqueous hydrochloric acid 5N 30 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution 50 ml and evaporated to get a solid mass. The product obtained from the above process was crystallized from hexane ethyl acetate 9 1 v v 50 ml .

 3S 5 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 hydroxy 4 pentenoic acid 1S 2 hydroxy 1 2 2 triphenylethyl ester 25 g was dissolved in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 75 ml and methanol 50 ml at 25 30 C. 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 37 ml was added dropwise to the above reaction mass over a period of 30 min at 25 30 C. It was stirred at 25 30 C. and monitored the progress of the reaction by TLC n Hexane Ethyl acetate 7 3 v v . After completion the solvent was removed at 45 50 C. under reduced pressure to obtain a residue which was suspended in water 125 ml . It was subsequently estracted with methylene chloride 2 25 ml at 25 30 C. Thereafter the resulting aqueous layer was acidified with 1 N aqueous hydrochloric acid 18 ml to pH 3 4 at 25 30 C. The above aqueous layer was extracted with methylene chloride 2 50 ml at 25 30 C. and the combined methylene chloride layer was washed with aqueous sodium chloride 25 w v 60 ml . The crude product was isolated by distilling methylene chloride at 35 40 C. as viscous oil which was subsequently recrystallised from hexanes to yield the title compound. This compound was used as such for further purification to get better chiral purity.

 4E 5 4 4 Fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 hydroxy 4 pentenoic acid 100 gm 0.228 ml which contains predominantly S isomer was dissolved in acetonitrile 1 litre and R methylbenzylamine 27.7 gm 0.228 ml was added to it dropwise over a period of 30 min during which salt precipitated out. The above suspension was heated to 70 75 C. and water 75 ml was added to it to get a clear solution which was subsequently cooled to 25 C. to reprecipitate the product. It was further cooled to 5 10 C. filtered and washed with chilled acetonitrile 150 ml 5 10 C. . The product obtained was dried at 40 45 C. under vacuum to constant weight.

 4E 5 4 4 Fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3S 3 hydroxy 4 pentenoic acid methylbenzylamine salt 75 gm 0.134 mol was suspended in a mixture of methylene chloride 125 ml and water 125 ml at 25 C. The above suspension was cooled to 2 5 C. and pH was adjusted to 3 3.5 by slow addition of IN aqueous Hydrochloric acid. Thereafter the organic layer was separated washed with water 125 ml and evaporated to dryness to get the pure product.

