---

title: Methods and apparatus or interactive name searching techniques
abstract: Methods and apparatus include presenting an initial set of names to a user. The user selects a set of names from those presented. An Interactive Evolutionary Algorithm (IEA) extracts features of each selected name from a database of names and features to form a feature set. The IEA forms a set of match features that are chosen from the feature set according to a priority function and/or weighting of the features, either of which may vary in succeeding iterations. The IEA searches the database to obtain a candidate set of names, where each name has features matching the match features. One or more names is chosen from the candidate set and added into a presentation set of names. The IEA may repeat the formation of the match features, candidate set, and selection of one or more names from the candidate set until the new presentation set is complete.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725755&OS=08725755&RS=08725755
owner: Icosystem Corporation
number: 08725755
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080512
---
The present application incorporates by reference the commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 176 968 filed on Jul. 6 2005 entitled Method and Apparatus for Interactive Searching U.S. Provisional Patent Ser. No. 60 585 807 filed on Jul. 6 2004 entitled Methods and Systems for Interactive Searching U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 537 143 filed on Sep. 29 2006 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Interactive Searching Techniques and U.S. Provisional Patent Ser. No. 60 721 637 filed on Sep. 29 2005 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Interactive Searching Techniques .

The present application claims priority to the following provisional patent application the entirety of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference U.S. Ser. No. 60 917 239 filed on May 10 2007.

The disclosed methods and systems relate generally to searching for information from a database and in particular for facilitating the choice of a name e.g. for a child a pet or a product company.

Search engines assist a user in identifying information that may be stored on a computer server or other information storage media. Generally the information may be in the form of a database e.g. any structured database any database of objects with tags or descriptors . The information may include for example various web page content photographs goods or services for sale or any other item that can be represented and stored in electronic format. Some examples of commonly used search engines include but are not limited to Yahoo MSN Google Amazon.com a9.com AOL Lycos LookSmart Altavista Ask Jeeves Orbitz Travelocity Expedia.com and Flickr.com .

Search engines typically require the user to enter one or a plurality of keywords and in some cases to specify one or a plurality of Boolean operators to determine the logical relationship between the pluralities of keywords. This provision of one or more keywords and or optional Boolean operators is referred to as the search query. A search engine executes one or more algorithms which act on the search query to identify one or a plurality of items of information that satisfy the search query this information is commonly referred to as search results . The search engine generally returns the results of the search algorithm by presenting them to the user through some form of a user interface e.g. display . In some instances when a plurality of search results is available the search engine may further determine which specific results to present to the user according to some criteria e.g. ranking optimization . The user is then able to select one or a plurality of search results. If none of the results is satisfactory or if additional results are sought the user can select to view additional results or the user can refine or modify the search query for example by adding or removing one or more keywords and or optional Boolean operators.

In addition to conventional search engines which may execute various proprietary algorithms to process search queries and provide results according to some type of ranking of optimization process a search query may be executed by a web directory service. Unlike a search engine a web directory service that is capable of processing a search query returns to the user lists and categories of web sites as search results without necessarily ranking promoting or optimizing the list of web sites. One example of a web directory service is the Open Directory Project hosted and administered by Netscape Communication Corporation see http dmoz.org .

Interactive search is a way of presenting information to a user and letting the user provide feedback to improve the quality of the search until a desirable item is found. Interactive search differs fundamentally from other search methods for example it may be geared toward searches in which the user does not exactly know what he is looking for or when a normal search may return a vast number of items. In both of these circumstances Bonabeau and Gaudiano in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 176 968 filed on Jul. 6 2005 entitled Method and Apparatus for Interactive Searching and U.S. Provisional Patent Ser. No. 60 585 807 filed on Jul. 6 2004 entitled Methods and Systems for Interactive Searching have recognized and appreciated that identifying the specific item s of interest to the user may be facilitated by an evaluation of the user s subjective preferences.

One exemplary embodiment of the methods and apparatus disclosed therein is described in overview in . In this embodiment a user wishes to purchase a gift but does not have a specific gift in mind. The user may employ a computer including a display a selection device e.g. a keyboard or a mouse and one or more processors to initiate a search query via a search component e.g. a search engine or web directory service which then presents to the user information regarding gift items pursuant to the search query. In one aspect since it is assumed the user does not have specific gift criteria in mind the initial search query may indeed by quite crude or vague e.g. the query might be based on the gender and or age of the person for whom the gift it intended . Alternatively the information regarding potential gift items may be generated randomly for example from a merchant s database and or the information may be selected. The user then employs an interactive search process as discussed in greater detail below to actively evaluate her search options in accordance with her subjective preferences. She continues using the interactive search process until she finds a desired gift item.

It should be appreciated that although the exemplary process depicted in illustrates the selection of a gift virtually any type of item identified in some manner in a searchable database may be searched for by the user in a similar interactive manner according to various embodiments of the disclosure therein.

In the embodiment illustrated in the interactive search process begins in block by displaying search results to the user shown in . In one aspect of this embodiment the search results may be randomly generated. In other aspects a search component may execute a previous search query to generate the search results. Examples of such search components include but are not limited to Yahoo MSN Google Amazon.com a9.com AOL Lycos LookSmart Altavista Ask Jeeves Orbitz Travelocity Expedia.com Flickr and the Open Directory Project.

In another embodiment not specifically depicted in an interactive search process may more generally provide information relating to initial search results by representing all or a portion of the information as any one of a number of perceivable indications to the user . For example all or a portion of the information relating to the search results may be provided as one or more audible or visible indications. With respect to visual indications as indicated in block of all or a portion of the information may be displayed textually and or graphically including graphic displays of a plurality of images or diagrams representing respective items of information e.g. individual items in the search results . In one exemplary implementation discussed further below respective items in the search results may be graphically displayed to the user as a two dimensional grid of images or diagrams representing the items.

In block of the user decides whether the initial search results provided in block contain desired information e.g. a desired item in the search results . If so the user can opt to end the process. Otherwise the user may continue the process in block .

In block of the user is permitted to evaluate the search results to provide feedback. In one exemplary implementation the user may evaluate the search results for example by utilizing a mouse keyboard or other selection device in combination with evaluation options presented to the user via a computer display. In one aspect the user feedback may include assigning a degree of randomness based on evaluating a plurality of items in the search results for generating a new search query according to subsequent acts in the process detailed below. In another aspect the user feedback may include assigning a subjective value also referred to as a fitness measure or weight or grade or rank to one or more items in the search results. In one exemplary implementation one or more subjective values assigned by the user may be represented in some fashion on the display in coordination with a representation of an item to which the subjective value is assigned. For example in one embodiment items of the search results may be graphically displayed as a two dimensional grid of images or diagrams and subjective values assigned to different item may be respectively represented in some fashion on the grid of images or diagrams.

In other aspects the user may select a subjective value from at least two or more possible subjective values to indicate the relative desirability of a given item in the search results. For example by merely selecting highlighting a given item the user may indicate that item s desirability. Non selected non highlighted items may then be considered as undesirable. In another aspect the user may assign a positive value to desirable items a negative value to undesirable items and one or more items not particularly addressed by the user may be assigned a neutral value. In yet another aspect the user may assign a subjective value for a given item from within a range of possible values between some minimum value and some maximum value e.g. a degree of fitness weight grade or rank . In yet another aspect a subjective value for one or more items may be assigned based on a user s response time to comment on a given item. The forgoing examples are provided primarily for purposes of illustration and are not intended as limiting. Additionally as discussed above various options for assigning a subjective value to one or more items in the search results may be facilitated via the use of a computer display and or selection device e.g. keyboard mouse .

In block of the interactive search process illustrated in the user may be given the option to modify e.g. add delete alter one or more characteristics associated with the search results. In one embodiment each item in the search results may be associated with one or more characteristics. In one aspect one or more characteristics associated with each item may include any descriptor for the item made available via a given search component s application program interface API . Examples of such characteristics associated with a given item in the search results may include but are not limited to one or more tags which may include one or more keywords comments URL links and or XML information one or more classification oriented identifiers one or more categorization oriented identifiers and one or more semantic web based identifiers. More specifically one or more characteristics associated with a given item may include one or more taxonomy related identifiers for the item one or more ontology related identifiers and or one or more folksonomy related identifiers e.g. people who bought book X also bought book Y the terms taxonomy ontology and folksonomy are intended to have the respective meanings that would be readily associated with them by one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts .

In block of the process may optionally compare the present feedback provided by the user to previous feedback provided by the user assuming that the interactive search process shown in has completed at least one loop of iteration. By optionally memorizing previous feedback the process may employ adaptive learning techniques e.g. trend analysis to ultimately shape the generation of a new search query. In one aspect of an implementation employing such adaptive learning techniques one or more subjective values assigned by the user to one or more corresponding items in the search results may be modified prior to further processing e.g. averaging subjective values from feedback gathered over multiple iterations weighted averaging of subjective values etc. .

In block of the process shown in one or more evolutionary algorithms are performed based on the immediate user feedback e.g. one or more subjective values assigned in block or cumulative feedback provided by block . Again the subjective value s constituting the user feedback may be viewed in terms of assigning a fitness measure or desirability in connection with one or more items in the initial search results.

In one embodiment to facilitate the execution of one or more evolutionary algorithms in block one or more characteristics associated with each item or one or more characteristics that have been modified by a user as discussed above in connection with block are encoded as one or more genes in a genetic string associated with each item. Hence each item in the search results may be associated with a corresponding genetic string that includes one or more genes wherein each gene represents a characteristic of the item e.g. a tag keyword comment identifier descriptor attribute etc. as discussed above .

In block once one or more such genetic strings are assembled the evolutionary algorithm including one or more genetic operators is then applied to the one or more genetic strings associated with one or more items. Genetic strings are considered in the evolutionary algorithm based on their corresponding fitness i.e. the user feedback subjective value assigned to the one or more items with which the strings are associated to generate a new search query in block .

In various aspects the genetic operators applied by an evolutionary algorithm in block may include but are not limited to a selection operator a mutation operator a recombination operator a crossover operator a directed operator a constraint operator and a preservation elitism operator. For purposes of the Bonabeau and Gaudiano disclosure and as would be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts an evolutionary algorithm also referred to as a genetic algorithm or program generally is concerned with three possible factors namely 1 a population of one or more parents that may be randomly initialized e.g. in the process a parent may be considered as a genetic string associated with a given item in the search results 2 one or more mutation operators capable of altering at least one parent to a neighboring solution this process also may be referred to as a local search operator and 3 a recombination operator which can recombine genetic strings of two parents into a child that inherits traits from both parents this process also may be referred to as a global search operator .

In connection with evolutionary algorithms as applied in Bonabeau and Gaudiano an exemplary mutation operation may be generally understood to potentially introduce randomness to the process as a mutation operator may be configured to delete one or more genes of a given genetic string or add one or more random genes to a given genetic string. Exemplary recombination operations can include reproduction mutation preservation e.g. elitism and or crossover where crossover can be understood to be the combination of two individuals the parents to produce one or more offspring the children i.e. a crossover operator may be configured to combine genes of at least two given genetic strings to produce one or more offspring . Those of ordinary skill will recognize that a crossover operator may include asexual crossover and or single child crossover. Accordingly crossover can be more generally understood to provide genetic material from a previous generation to a subsequent generation. In one exemplary evolutionary algorithm that may be employed in an implementation of the process shown in at least one crossover operator is applied to at least two genetic strings respectively associated with two items in the search results to generate an offspring and at least one mutation operator is subsequently applied to the offspring to generate a new search query.

Variations of evolutionary algorithms and different genetic operators used in various combinations several of which are suitable for the process shown in are well known in the art. Accordingly the examples presented herein are discussed primarily for purposes of illustration and are not intended as limiting. In some exemplary implementations one or more evolutionary algorithms are designed a priori to act on one or more genetic strings and may not be altered by the user. In other implementations the user may be provided with the capability to design their own evolutionary algorithm by selecting one or more genetic operators to apply to one or more genetic strings input to the algorithm as well as an execution sequence for multiple genetic operators. The user s interaction with the process then may include evaluation of fitness for a particular item modification of one or more of an item s characteristics genes and evolutionary algorithm design.

As discussed above in block of a new search query is generated by one or more evolutionary algorithms. As indicated in block in one exemplary implementation the user optionally may be allowed to modify the new search query to introduce a new theme e.g. one or more new search terms not present in the generated search query. In one aspect of this implementation the new search query generated by the one or more evolutionary algorithms would be displayed to the user e.g. via a computer display for modification.

In block of the process outlined in the new search query generated in block or a user modified new search query optionally provided in block is executed by a search component e.g. search engine or web directory service and new search results are generated in block . In one exemplary implementation the same search component that was employed to initially generate search results in block is again employed to execute a search query in block . In one aspect the new search query or user modified new search query may be passed to the search component via the search component s application programming interface API .

Once new search results are generated in block block indicates that the user optionally may define a filter that is applied to the newly generated results. For example in one exemplary implementation the user may define one or more constraints e.g. provide only those results that cost less than 100 provide only green items provide only 10 items to selectively filter out possibly undesirable results from the newly generated results.

As indicated in the unfiltered results generated in block or the optionally filtered results generated in block are then displayed in block as the process returns to the beginning for another iteration. For example the user may subsequently evaluate the newly generated unfiltered or filtered search results in block to provide new feedback and optionally modify one or more characteristics genes associated with a given item in the new search results as indicated in block . Furthermore now that at least one iteration of the process has been completed the adaptive learning or trend analysis feature indicated in block may be utilized based on comparing present user feedback to previous user feedback and one or more evolutionary algorithms again may be performed in block based on present immediate or cumulative feedback and modified or unmodified genes associated with the new search results.

With reference again to the interactive search process discussed above in connection with may in one embodiment be implemented with the aid of a conventional computer e.g. a personal computer laptop etc. that includes a display configured to convey information e.g. search results to the user one or more selection devices e.g. a keyboard and or mouse configured to permit the user to interact with the process e.g. evaluate the search results modify genes define filters or constraints and one or more processors configured to implement various steps or acts of the interactive search process .

In one exemplary implementation the computer includes a computer readable medium e.g. various types of memory compact disk floppy disk etc. having computer readable signals stored thereon that define instructions which as a result of being executed by the one or more processors of the computer instruct the computer to perform various steps or acts of the interactive search process . In another implementation the interactive search process is configured to sit on top of a conventional search component invoked by the user of the computer by obtaining one or more characteristics or genes associated with a given item of information via the search component s API and providing new search queries to the search component via its API.

According to various embodiments the user may interact with the search process via a number of possible techniques involving the display and one or more selection devices . For example as discussed above information representing search results may be displayed on the display in a variety of textual and or graphical e.g. iconic formats. The user may utilize one or both of the display and one or more of the selection devices to click on select highlight various items of displayed information to provide some type of user feedback e.g. assignment of subjective value to an item .

In one exemplary embodiment in which respective items of information are represented as images or diagrams surrounded by a border a user may click on an item to change its evaluation between neutral e.g. no border positive e.g. grey or some other color border or negative e.g. crossed out . In another embodiment the user may obtain additional information about a particular item e.g. characteristics or genes associated with the item by letting a cursor hover over the image or diagram corresponding to the item or right clicking over the image or diagram corresponding to the item for example. In yet another embodiment an image or diagram corresponding to one or more items may be associated with a small slider entry box or pull down drop down box etc. displayed near or over the image or diagram. In the example of a slider the user may adjust the slider with one of the selection devices to assign a subjective value to the item within a range of values from some minimum value to some maximum value represented on the slider. In the example of an entry box or pull down drop down box the user may manually enter a value from the keyboard or select a value from amongst multiple possibilities conveyed by a menu. In yet another embodiment the user may select a degree of randomness in generating new search queries through a slider representing two extremes labeled Guide Me and Surprise Me corresponding respectively to low and high degrees of randomness. It should be appreciated that the foregoing examples are provided primarily for purposes of illustration and that various embodiments of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited in these respects.

Yet another exemplary embodiment implementing various concepts according to the Bonabeau and Gaudiano disclosure includes a web based system that enables the user to select a venue for a vacation. When looking for a vacation most Internet bases search engines such as Orbitz Travelocity and Expedia.com can offer information about specific hotels resorts etc. but require the user to have a clear idea of e.g. to specify a destination. In many cases a person looking for a vacation destination may only have an approximate idea of a destination time e.g. I want to spend one week in January someplace warm with my husband and two children. With existing travel sites the user has to select a geographical area and look through a list of possible venues e.g. selected on the basis of price range to identify one with the desired characteristics. However the user may initially have no idea of which particular geographical locations are satisfactory and even if s he has an idea of the geographical area e.g. the Caribbean s he may not know which specific locations and which venues at that location satisfy her his constraints.

Some online vacation sites allow a user to specify a number of criteria in a sequential fashion for instance by starting with a specific location then selecting price range activity types etc. however in this way the search is narrowed unnecessarily and may cause a user to overlook some potentially suitable alternatives. For example if a user begins by selecting the Caribbean s he may eventually identify a resort in Cancun but there may have been other venues e.g. Canary Islands which have similar and perhaps more desirable characteristics where such other venues which were not presented to the user after the initial decision.

In view of the foregoing in one embodiment the user is presented with a grid of images each image being a picture representing one venue. Below each image may be a row of icons representing key characteristics of the property such as cost style single couple family . . . geographical location etc. A second row below the image can include simple iconographic buttons that allow the user to obtain additional information in a pop up window e.g. view additional photos read client reviews determine availability to provide evaluative feedback about the property this can be as simple as a thumbs up thumbs down pair or a slider to save this property to a folder representing the user s current selection portfolio and or to actually make a reservation at this property.

In one aspect of this embodiment the display below the entire grid of images may include one or more buttons and sliders including a button to generate a refined set of properties based on the user s feedback a button to start with a fresh random set of properties a slider labeled with the extreme values Surprise me and Guide me which determine the level of randomness of the search as described for the previous embodiment a button that brings the user to her current portfolio of selections and navigation buttons to trace backwards and forward through the selections made during a given search session.

In other aspects of this embodiment an additional set of buttons pull down menus radio buttons and or text entry boxes can be included. Through these various devices the user can specify a filter i.e. one or more constraints that apply to all searched properties. For instance if the user wants only family oriented resorts by the sea s he can specify these criteria to ensure that inappropriate properties are not selected during search.

Search engines and web directory services also referred to herein as search components generally are designed to identify as closely as possible a specific piece or specific pieces of information that the user is seeking. To provide satisfactory results the search component typically relies on the ability of the user to provide a good search query. Applicants have recognized and appreciated however that there may be a situation in which the user is not able to create a good search query. Examples of such a situation include but are not limited to a when the user does not know exactly what he or she is searching for and 2 when there are a very large number of results that satisfy the user s initial search query to the search component. In these and perhaps other instances the user can become frustrated with the inability of the search component to provide a meaningful set of results in effect a traditional search query including one or more keywords and or Boolean operators does not render satisfactory results.

Applicants have also recognized and appreciated that for at least some search applications including the examples provided above in which the user does not know exactly what he or she is looking for or when there is a large number of results affording the user with the ability to subjectively evaluate search results or otherwise interact with the search component may facilitate the generation of significantly more satisfactory search results in an iterative fashion. Such search applications may include expectant parents searches for names for their unborn child or the search for a name e.g. for a pet or for a product or company. Moreover the methods and apparatus may apply to data in any language such as American English Spanish or Chinese therefore offering possibilities to a wide international audience.

The methods and apparatus disclosed herein may present a set of name suggestions that have been retrieved from a database by using a set of names selected by the user according to preference from a presentation set of names and or entered by the user from the said database. The user may find desirable names without any stipulation of name properties such as first letter number of syllables origin meaning or access to name lists categorized by style or popularity. The methods and apparatus may derive the name suggestions from the names selected or entered by the user and from feature information relating to the selected and entered names which feature information may be unseen by the user in the database. The methods and apparatus may also derive suggestions from information relating to usage by some or all previous users of the service. In particular adaptive learning can be carried out using data from many or all past users of the service in order to derive collective trends or collective usage clusters e.g. users who liked this also liked that .

In view of the foregoing various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to methods and apparatus for interactive name searching.

In a general aspect the application is directed to methods and apparatus that may include presenting an initial set of names the presentation set to the user. The presentation set may correspond to the information presented to the user in various embodiments described herein. The user may select some names from the presentation set that he she likes and or provide other names that can be found in the database. The names selected and or provided by the user form a selection set . The user may also negatively marked or block names in the presentation set and the names negatively marked or blocked by the user may be excluded from future suggestion sets or presentation sets. The selection set may correspond to the feedback described in relation to various embodiments herein. Each name has an associated set of features and each feature may be weighted. For example the features may include popularity origin meaning phonetics syllabics phonemics style and alphabetic structure wherein one feature popularity for example may have a greater weight than another for example phonetics. The set of features may correspond to the genetic string described in relation to various embodiments herein wherein the features may correspond to the genes .

The methods and apparatus extract the features of names in the selection set from the database of names and features to form a feature set . The methods and apparatus utilize an Interactive Evolutionary Algorithm IEA to form a set of match features based upon the feature set. The set of match features may be derived according to a priority function and or a weighting of the features. Forming sets of match features may correspond with the forming of search queries described in relation to various embodiments herein. The IEA searches the database to obtain a candidate set of names where each name has features relating to the match features. One or more names may be chosen from the candidate set and added into a presentation set of names. The IEA may repeat the formation of the match features candidate set and selection of one or more names from the candidate set until the new presentation set is complete. With each iteration the priority function and or weighting of the features may be varied so as to provide a new set of match features and a new candidate set. Once completed the new presentation set is then presented to the user as per the initial presentation set and the sequence may repeat or the user may be satisfied and not proceed further.

Another aspect is a computer readable medium having computer readable signals stored thereon. The computer readable signals define instructions which as a result of being executed by a computer or computer system instruct the computer or computer system to perform a method of interactive name searching as previously described. That is to say the computer readable medium has the said instructions stored therein.

Yet another aspect is a computer or computer system having a user interface. The user interface includes a display or other output device and a selection device or other input device. The computer or computer system includes a computer readable medium with instructions stored therein which as a result of being executed by the computer or computer system instruct the computer or computer system to perform a search method that executes the IEA in the manner as previously described.

Any of the above aspects may include one or more of the following features. In some implementations the methods further include independently storing the presentation sets in a memory storage device and independently retrieving the presentation sets from the memory storage device. The user may actuate a retrieving button wherein the actuating of the retrieving button once may retrieve a previous presentation set once removed and the actuating of the retrieving button twice may retrieve a previous presentation set twice removed. The memory storage device may be selected from a group comprising a semiconductor memory device a flash memory device a magnetic disk an internal hard disk a removable disk a magneto optical disk a CD ROM disk and a DVD ROM disk. Other memory devices also are contemplated.

In other implementations the evolutionary algorithm may include at least one of the following genetic operators a selection operator a mutation operator a recombination operator a crossover operator a directed operator a constraint operator or a preservation operator. Such operators may be used in conjunction with in lieu of and or may form a part of the priority function and or weighting for forming the iterative sets of match features.

Still other implementations are directed to the user selecting a priority function and or weighting from a range of possible functions and or weights. The methods may further include allowing the user to delete a name from the presentation set wherein the priority function and or weighting for one or more of the features of the set of features for the deleted name may be negatively affected.

Still other implementations are directed to the user explicitly negatively marking names or blocking names that are to be excluded from any future suggestion set or presentation set.

Still other implementations are directed to limiting the names included in presentation sets according to preferences expressly provided by the user or inferred from user selections such as showing only names of Latin origin or showing only names that have been popular recently.

Still other embodiments are directed to incorporating users preferences into the database of features based on usage of the methods and apparatus.

Still other embodiments are directed to incorporating information derived from past usage of the service by some or all users.

In other implementations the evolutionary algorithm may include a mutation operator configured to delete a gene of a given genetic string and or to add a random gene to the given genetic string. The method also may include applying the mutation operator to the genetic string associated with a name or a set of names to generate a further search query.

Other implementations are directed to the evolutionary algorithm including a crossover operator configured to combine genes of two given genetic strings to produce an offspring and or a mutation operator configured to delete a gene of a given genetic string and or add a random gene to the given genetic string. The evolutionary algorithm also may comprise application of the crossover operator to the genetic strings respectively associated with two names to generate the offspring and the application of the mutation operator to the offspring to generate the further search query.

In other implementations the user may evaluate the new presentation set to provide a second selection set based at least in part upon the new presentation set. The evolutionary algorithm may be used to evaluate the second selection set in order to generate a further search query. The further search query may be generated at least in part based upon the first selection set and or the second selection set. The evolutionary algorithm also may be used to evaluate further selection sets in order to generate still further search queries. The further search queries may be executed to provide further presentation sets. The act of generating a further search query may include generating the further search query based on a trend or trends derived from two or more selection sets.

In yet other implementations the further presentation set may include a further plurality of names. Each name of the further plurality of names may be associated with one or more further characteristics. The encoding of the further characteristics associated with each name may be as a further gene of a further genetic string associated with each name.

In other embodiments the user may select a first desired name from a first plurality of names in a presentation set and a second desired name from a second plurality of names in the same or another presentation set. The first and second desired names may be combined and generate a further query. The combination of the first and second desired names may include selecting the second desired name from a second display dropping the second desired name into a first display and generating a third display wherein the third display displays a third presentation set. The evolutionary algorithm may be applied to the genetic string associated with the first desired name and the second genetic string associated with the second desired name.

The present disclosure also incorporates herein by reference the entirety of U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 463 filed Apr. 1 2004 entitled Methods and Systems for Interactive Search. 

It should be appreciated that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts discussed in greater detail below are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein.

To provide an overall understanding certain illustrative embodiments will now be described however it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the apparatus and methods described herein can be adapted and modified to provide apparatus and methods for other suitable applications and that other additions and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

Unless otherwise specified the illustrated embodiments can be understood as providing exemplary features of varying detail of certain embodiments. Therefore unless otherwise specified features components modules and or aspects of the illustrations can be otherwise combined separated interchanged and or rearranged without departing from the disclosed systems or methods.

Referring also to an initial presentation set of names is chosen from the database at step . The initial presentation set may be chosen from among a set of names having a full complement of features. To begin the initial presentation set is presented to the user through a display or other output device. The user selects names from the presentation set and or provides names that can be found in the database to form the selection set of names and the said names are received through an input device. As shown in the user may select any number of names until the user is satisfied with the number of choices or a maximum number of choices may be imposed. For each name in the selection set the name is removed from the selection set some or all of the features of the name are extracted from the database of names and the some or all of the features are inserted into a features set .

Once the selection set is empty that is once features of the names in the selection set have been extracted and placed in the features set Interactive Evolutionary Algorithm IEA forms a set of match features . The match features may be chosen according to a priority function applied to the features set and or weighting of the features of the features set. The priority function may include without limitation one or more genetic operators a selection operator a mutation operator a recombination operator a crossover operator a directed operator a constraint operator or a preservation operator. The IEA may obtain a candidate set of names in the database by finding names where each name has features that match one or more of the match features. One or more names may be chosen from the candidate set and added into a new presentation set of names . The IEA may repeat the formation of the match features candidate set and selection of one or more names from the candidate set until the new presentation set is complete as determined at . Names that were marked negatively or blocked by the user may be excluded from the presentation set. With each iteration the priority function and or weighting of the features may be varied so as to provide a new set of match features and a new candidate set. Once completed the new presentation set may then be presented to the user as per the initial presentation set and the sequence may repeat until the user is satisfied.

The apparatus for implementing the methods illustrated by the flowcharts of may include software on computer readable media and a computer interface. One exemplary interface is a web page. The software may display the presentation set in any number of ways e.g. grid style or vertically and may use icons to indicate functional processes of the technology as per the flow chart. The interface allows for interactive use on the web by users. Users select names from the presentation set and or enter one or more names. The user may then repeat this selection from a new presentation set each time the algorithm examines their selection set and returns a new presentation set. The methods and apparatus may be particularly applicable for though not limited to expectant parents in search of baby names and or businesses in search of new product or business names and or people in search of pet names.

As described herein the selection of match features may be based on a priority function applied to the features set and or weighting of features in the features set. In order to obtain varying candidate sets for each iteration illustrated in the priority function and or weighting may be varied. For example popularity may be given the greatest weight in one iteration while meaning may be given the greatest weight in another iteration. In a further example a genetic operator may be applied to the previous set of match features to obtain a new set of match features. The varying of weights and or the application of genetic operators may be randomized or may follow a predetermined sequence. Further weighting may be affected by the user choosing to delete a name from a presentation set indicating a strong dislike of the name. Weighting of the corresponding features may be reduced and or the weights may include negative values. Weighting may also be modified according to past usage of the service by some or all users.

In addition choosing from the candidate sets for inclusion in the new presentation set may depend on a predetermined set of rules or one or more members of the candidate set may be chosen at random or a combination of rules and random choices may be applied. As an exemplary but not limiting combination rule and random choice the top best match and a random one of the candidate set may be chosen from each candidate set formed by the IEA.

As is known in the art social community information based on usage of the methods and apparatus described herein may inform the features included in the database and or the operation of the IEA. As an example past usage of the interface may indicate that users who include the name ALICE in their selection sets also tended to include the name EMILY . Accordingly the database may include a link feature between the two names that the IEA may incorporate in the set of match features.

As used herein a user interface is an interface between a human user and a computer that enables communication between the user and the computer. A user interface may include an auditory indicator such as a speaker and or a graphical user interface GUI including one or more displays. A user interface also may include one or more selection devices including a mouse a keyboard a keypad a track ball a microphone a touch screen a game controller e.g. a joystick etc. or any combinations thereof.

As used herein an application programming interface or API is a set of one or more computer readable instructions that provide access to one or more other sets of computer readable instructions that define functions so that such functions can be configured to be executed on a computer in conjunction with an application program in some instances to communicate various data parameters and general information between two programs.

The various methods acts thereof and various embodiments and variations of these methods and acts individually or in combination may be defined by computer readable signals tangibly embodied on one or more computer readable media for example non volatile recording media integrated circuit memory elements or a combination thereof. Such signals may define instructions for example as part of one or more programs that as a result of being executed by a computer instruct the computer to perform one or more of the methods or acts described herein and or various embodiments variations and combination thereof. Such instructions may be written in any of a plurality of programming languages or using any of a plurality of programming techniques.

For example various methods according to the present disclosure may be programmed using an object oriented programming language. Alternatively functional scripting and or logical programming languages may be used. Various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented in a non programmed environment e.g. documents created in HTML XML or other format that when viewed in a window of a browser program render aspects of a graphical user interface GUI or perform other functions . Various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented as programmed or non programmed elements or combinations thereof.

A given computer readable medium may be transportable such that the instructions stored thereon can be loaded onto any computer system resource to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. In addition it should be appreciated that the instructions stored on the computer readable medium are not limited to instructions embodied as part of an application program running on a host computer. Rather the instructions may be embodied as any type of computer code e.g. software or microcode that can be employed to program a processor to implement various aspects of the present disclosure.

Having thus described several illustrative embodiments it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. While some examples presented herein involve specific combinations of functions or structural elements it should be understood that those functions and elements may be combined in other ways according to the present disclosure to accomplish the same or different objectives. In particular acts elements and features discussed in connection with one embodiment are not intended to be excluded from similar or other roles in other embodiments. Accordingly the foregoing description and attached drawings are by way of example only and are not intended to be limiting.

