---

title: Common interface protocol for sending FR-RDS messages in wireless communication systems
abstract: Radio Data System (RDS) Interactive Services (IS) combines data feeds and interactivity with programs broadcast on FM channels. An RDS-IS client application on user equipment (e.g., handset) extracts RDS information from the RDS enabled FM receiver, and presents content on a mobile screen in a user-friendly format. Broadcasted RDS message can include special strings or “anchors” for special treatment by receivers. Receivers replace text with visuals to enhance user experience, such as cartoons or photographic icons based on names in RadioText fields. The RDS-IS client application generates specific prompts and composes interactive screens, enables hot keys and decides actions (e.g., voice calls, SMS) on key press, triggers contextual e-commerce by invoking data calls to given URLs, and sends statistics to the operator of a two-way data channel that provides enhanced content (e.g., CDMA reverse link, SMS, wireless access network, etc.) based upon “anchors” or “tags” included with the RDS-IS message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521078&OS=08521078&RS=08521078
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08521078
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081001
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 038 724 entitled COMMON INTERFACE PROTOCOL FOR SENDING FM RDS MESSAGES IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS filed Mar. 21 2008 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate generally to broadcast radio usage in a receiver. More particularly the described aspects relate to embedded tags in radio broadcasts.

Broadcast radio stations such FM radio stations may use a system known as a Radio Data System RDS or Radio Broadcast Data System RBDS in US both referred to herein as RDS to transmit supplemental information corresponding to their normal radio programming e.g. music talk news etc. In particular RDS is intended for application to FM sound broadcasts between 87.5 MHz to 108.0 MHz. For stereophonic broadcast the RDS subcarrier is locked to third harmonic of the 19 KHz pilot tone with overall tolerance of 6 Hz. For monophonic broadcast the RDS subcarrier is 57 KHz 6 Hz. The data message rate is constrained to 1.1875 Kbits sec as defined in standards for RBDS i.e. NRSC 4 A National Radio Systems Committee NRSC jointly sponsored by Consumer Electronics Association CEA and National Association of Broadcasters NAB and for RDS i.e. IEC CENELEC EN 62106 2001 International Electrotechnical Commission IEC and European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization CENELEC .

Broadcast radio stations transmit their programming and the supplemental information in the RDS format as distinct signals multiplexed onto a single carrier. Radio receivers having RDS decoders such as those included with some wireless communications devices or those in a vehicle permit a user to listen to the transmitted programming and view the corresponding supplemental information on a display. Specifically generally known RDS improves functionality for FM receivers by providing basic RDS information such as Program Identification Program Service and Automatic tuning as well as Open Data Application ODA for such services as traffic message channel emergency warning systems radio text and enhanced radio paging etc.

Attempts have been made to extend RDS beyond providing a standard protocol for several types of supplemental information transmitted by the broadcast radio stations such as the identity of the particular radio station the type of programming and text information such as the name of an artist and or song. For example some specifications provide additional messages that can control portions of the supplemental information such as the display of the radio text information. In another example some services have been developed to provide content to the receiver using a data connection where the content is synchronized with the radio programming via the data message.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some disclosed aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described features in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with integrated services via a an RDS message encoded with an audio program leveraging the wide reach of the FM broadcast. Interactivity for content to enhance the RDS information and user interaction are enabled across a number of radio access technologies and carriers.

In one aspect a method utilizes Radio Data System RDS interactive services at a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while receiving related content via a two way data channel. An interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services are incorporated. An analog radio signal is received containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. Delivery of requested available content is received via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In another aspect at least one processor utilizes Radio Data System RDS interactive services at a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while receiving related content via a two way data channel. A first module incorporates an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A second module receives a Frequency Modulated FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. A third module receives delivery of requested available content via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In an additional aspect a computer program product utilizes Radio Data System RDS interactive services at a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while receiving related content via a two way data channel by having a computer readable storage medium that comprises a first set of codes for causing a computer to incorporate an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A second set of codes causes the computer to receive a Frequency Modulated FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. A third set of codes causing the computer to receive delivery of requested available content via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In another additional aspect an apparatus utilizes Radio Data System RDS interactive services at a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while receiving related content via a two way data channel. Means are provided for incorporating an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. Means are provided for receiving a Frequency Modulated FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. Means are provided for receiving delivery of requested available content via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In a further aspect a user apparatus utilizes Radio Data System RDS interactive services at a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while receiving related content via a two way data channel by comprising an interactive services client. A configuration component identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A Frequency Modulated FM receiver for receiving an FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. A wireless transceiver receives delivery of requested available content via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In yet one aspect a method provides interactive services to a population of user devices by optimizing available intermittent data bandwidth accompanying an analog radio broadcast while delivering related content via a two way data channel. A plurality of user devices are provisioned with an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. An analog radio signal is broadcast containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. Delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices is facilitated via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In yet another aspect at least one processor provides Radio Data System RDS interactive services to a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while delivering related content via a two way data channel. A first module provisions a plurality of user devices with an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A second module broadcasts an analog radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. A third module facilitates delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In yet an additional aspect a computer program product provides Radio Data System RDS interactive services to a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while delivering related content via a two way data channel comprising of a computer readable storage medium having a first set of codes for causing a computer to provision a plurality of user devices with an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A second set of codes causes the computer to broadcast an analog radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. A third set of codes causes the computer to facilitate delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In yet another additional aspect an apparatus provides Radio Data System RDS interactive services to a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while delivering related content via a two way data channel. Means are provided for provisioning a plurality of user devices with an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. Means are provided for broadcasting an analog radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client on the receiving device. Means are provided for facilitating delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In yet a further aspect a network apparatus provides Radio Data System RDS interactive services to a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while delivering related content via a two way data channel. An RDS distribution component provisions a plurality of user devices with an interactive services client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. An analog radio broadcaster broadcasts an FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged data message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the interactive services client. A data packet network facilitates delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the aspects may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

A Radio Data System Interactive Services RDS IS client on a user device interprets tagging information within an RDS message received on an FM broadcast and presents an option to a user via a user interface. Upon an initiating event e.g. existing setting user selection etc. the client utilizes a stored configuration file for an initial location appropriate for an operator of the two data communication channel which in turn facilitates retrieval of the selected content promoted by the RDS message. Thereby multiple mobile operators can simultaneously provide RDS IS on the same RDS broadcast channel with the two way data channel having operator specific encryption. The broad reach but constrained data throughput of FM RDS is complimented by the conversely provisioned two way data channels to access a packet data network for data intensive operations such as audio video clip download etc. Moreover RDS IS can be related to audio content of the FM broadcast for synergistic results such as selling ringtones that are promoted by the full song. Examples of other interactive services include user interface UI wallpaper downloads voting contests customer service e.g. navigation alerts news . The RDS IS client application generates specific prompts and composes interactive screens e.g. ringtone wallpaper icon related to the currently playing song etc. enables hot keys and decides actions e.g. voice calls SMS on key press triggers contextual e commerce by invoking data calls to given URLs and sends statistics to the operator of a two way data channel that provides enhanced content e.g. CDMA reverse link SMS wireless access network etc. based upon anchors or tags included with the RDS IS message. The device can incorporate separately secured graphics and content to enhance the communication value of the RDS IS message to compensate for the limited data throughput. An RDS IS message can trigger alerts e.g. audible visual tactile to get the user s attention. User selections support analytical functions such as usage data collection and whether the user opts in or out of RDS IS. For instance levels of RDS IS participation can be dictated by device limitations and user selections e.g. display data message only limited interaction interaction at a certain priority relative to operator services or device performance etc. . Particular features of mobile devices can be supported such as hot keys so that the user can send SMS Short Message Service call a make a voice call etc. just on a single click key press to enable the mobile device interactions with advertisements.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.

In a Radio Data System RDS Interactive Service IS managed at an RDS IS Control is delivered over a hybrid communication system that enhances the reach and program content of one way radio broadcasts with interactivity provided by a separate data channel. In particular a one way Frequency Modulated FM RDS IS broadcast provides audible program content e.g. music talk news etc. that can be received by a wide number of FM radio receivers not shown some of which interpret standard RDS text embedded within the broadcast for text displays. Advantageously a population of the receivers is RDS IS Enabled Devices many of which can be mobile that can also interpret tagged RDS messages that advertise an opportunity for interaction with additional content . This content is requested and received through a two way data channel which can be provided multiple operators depicted as Mobile Switching Networks .

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that aspects herein apply generally to an intermittent data signal added to a broadcast of an analog audio radio signals. In particular such broadcasts used in conjunction with a two way data channel to deliver interactive content responsive to tagged messages in the intermittent data signal. In an exemplary aspect the intermittent data signal conforms generally with protocols for RDS or RBDS and the analog audio radio signal conforms to frequency modulation FM protocol. This two way data channel can be intermittently available with limited coverage areas available at varying subscription rates that affect what RDS interactive services are proposed to the user and can entail different communication protocol including encryption as well as being different radio access technologies e.g. wireless access network 3G air interface personal access network etc. . However the two way data channel can have sufficient data throughput for receiving content such as digital audio video songs ringtones graphical user interface GUI wallpaper interactive games and contest content user navigation information and local alert information etc.

The RDS IS Control is depicted as having an RM RDS Program Director that defines an RDS Interactive Product having an RDS component and identifying the content . The RDS interactive Product is stored and disseminated by an FM broadcaster RDS server to one or more FM RDS broadcasters depicted as having an audio content generator that is combined with the tagged RDS messages by an RDS encoder for transmission by a radio broadcast transmitter .

The multi mode FM RDS enabled mobile device has an RDS IS client that interprets the tagged RDS messages displaying them on a display as appropriate for the device user settings and subscription capabilities provided by the available mobile switching network . Upon an initiating event such as a pre existing user setting or a user input the client pursues the selected content by referencing a configuration file provisioned on the mobile device . The configuration file provides an initial request location suitable for the operator carrier that supports data packet services to the particular mobile device . The mobile switching network can then facilitate receipt of the requested content .

As an example of user settings various levels of user profile can be supported such as the following 1 Dynamically adjust to the user level as prescribed by the network in real time in conjunction with the device capabilities 2 Receive and display RDS data only no interactions using packet data services voice and SMS interactions permitted 3 Receive and display RDS data only minimum interaction using packet data services to enhance the RDS data display 4 Receive and display RDS data Interactivity using packet data services at low priority 5 Receive and display RDS data Interactivity using packet data services at medium priority 6 Receive and display RDS data Interactivity using packet data services at high priority and 7 Other.

In a methodology provide an alert from Interactive RDS Service using an RDS IS message to an RDS enabled user device which in the illustrative aspect is mobile via a one way FM RDS broadcaster of available content that can be retrieved over another over the air two way data communication channel depicted as a Wireless Data Packet Network Carrier that has greater data throughput. The two way communication channel can alternatively be a Short Message System SMS or other types of over the air delivery.

As depicted at the Interactive RDS Service deploys an RDS interactive service as an RDS IS client application to the mobile device . This deployment can comprise distribution to an original equipment manufacturer that installs the client before fielding. Alternatively or in addition the client application can be an over the air download facilitated by the carrier . Alternatively or in addition the client application can be locally installed by a user retail shop personal distributor etc.

Similarly as depicted at a configuration component e.g. file deployed to the mobile device which can be an original installation a pushed file or a pulled file. The configuration file can inform the RDS IS client application to particular configuration items such as how to interact with the carrier in order to obtain RDS interactive services.

As depicted at the interactive RDS service produces an RDS episode that includes an anchor or tag on how to augment the RDS text and how to retrieve interactive services based upon pre existing settings for the mobile device or based upon user interactions with the mobile device responsive to the presented RDS text e.g. alphanumeric display graphical display audible display haptic feedback etc. The interactive RDS service identifies where this additional content can be obtained at which can entail provisioning the mobile device in advance verifying a location for pre existing content e.g. uniform resource locator URL or causing the content to be stored at an accessible location. The tagged RDS episode includes a tagged RDS message depicted as Open Data Application ODA data at that is distributed to the FM RDS broadcaster which in turn encodes the tagged RDS message with the audio content and broadcasts the resulting FM signal to the mobile device as depicted at .

As depicted at the mobile device interprets the tagged RDS message which can include a location of available content. Some content can be automatically retrieved either locally or via the carrier to enhance the presentation of the RDS text e.g. artistic cartoon photographic icon alert sound etc. . The mobile device also presents a suitable RDS user interface block . For example the client application can determine the hardware software constraints of the mobile device e.g. types of user controls available communication paths e.g. SMS voice call wireless application protocol WAP browser etc. subscription constraints imposed by the carrier user settings etc.

As depicted at the client application determines user interaction with a presented RDS prompt. This interaction can be a pre existing user input to automatically retrieve certain types of content. Alternatively the user interaction can be a user input to the mobile device interactively directly with the presented RDS prompt. In answer to the user selection the client application refers to information in the configuration file specific to how to access the associated content via the carrier block . As depicted at the mobile device requests the associated content as identified by the interactive RDS service via the carrier which in turn returns the content as depicted at .

In in another aspect Radio Data System RDS Interactive Service IS network managed at an RDS IS Control is delivered over a hybrid communication system that enhances the reach and program content of one way radio broadcasts with interactivity provided by a separate data channel. In one aspect optimal performance can be achieved by reducing RDS data for broadcast while utilizing packet data network and interconnections between elements of two networks effectively. In particular a one way FM RDS IS broadcast provides audible program content e.g. music talk news etc. that can be received by a wide number of FM radio receivers not shown some of which interpret standard RDS text embedded within the broadcast for text displays. Advantageously a population of the receivers is RDS IS enabled mobile devices that can also interpret tagged RDS messages using a Broadcaster Mobile BM interface that advertise an opportunity for interaction with additional content. The BM interface enhances the existing RDS protocols to support interactive voice and data services in the FM RDS enabled mobiles . This BM interface is supported by utilizing newly created Open Data Applications ODAs . By the very nature of FM RDS transmission this interface is unidirectional from FM RDS broadcaster to receiving mobiles. The receiving mobile requires a client application to interpret the ODA data received for presentation to the user and facilitate interactivity with the mobile network. In order to support reception from multiple broadcasters by the same client application in one aspect each broadcaster is assigned a unique application ID AID . Alternatively or in addition a separate AID can be assigned to each broadcaster and operator relationship.

This content is requested and received through a two way data channel provided by a Mobile Carrier MC interface which can be provided by multiple operators of different radio access technologies depicted as a Mobile Switching Networks accessed via a 2G 3G 4G Over the Air OTA link and a Wireless Access Network WAN coverage area of a base node e.g. access point . The two way data channel is completed by a Broadcaster Operator BO interface . For clarity the network interactivity sought by the mobile device is referred hereafter as mobile switching network which may be any private or public wireless communications network operating according to any known standard including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cdmaOne cdma2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wideband CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and TIA EIA 136.

The RDS IS Control is depicted as having an RM RDS Program Director terminal PDT that defines an RDS interactive product stored and disseminated by an FM broadcaster server RDS to one or more FM RDS broadcasters for Regions A and B via an interface annotated as an RS 232 interface and a Universal Encoder Communication Protocol UECP . Other illustrative formats include TCP IP RS232C and RS 485.

Program director terminal s thus can manage RDS feeds to the broadcast can synchronize RDS with live audio in real time can authorize and accept RDS broadcast data requests from a mobile switching network can inform an operator s mobile switching network of current and future broadcasts. The RDS broadcast servers can feed RDS to encoders in the network configure encoders can monitor encoders and can communication with partner operator FM RDS server s PDTs and broadcast network back office.

In particular each FM RDS broadcaster is depicted having an audio content generator broadcast studio that is combined with the tagged RDS messages by an RDS encoder for transmission by a radio broadcast transmitter . In an illustrative aspect such encoders are available from vendors such as Audemat Aztec Via radio and ProFM Solutions. For national or multi region FM broadcasters the RDS IS network likely consists of multiple sites with multiple RDS encoders as depicted such that the broadcast RDS server s to address each encoder in the FM broadcaster network separately.

Each of the BM interface MC interface and BO interface can include a public or private network e.g. Internet or other communication links such a Publicly Switched Telephone Network PSTN depicted as a network between the broadcaster RDS server and a broadcaster back office system a network between the broadcaster RDS server and the BO interface a network between the BO interface and the base node and mobile switching network . Also depicted are distributed functions for carrier operations and content storage for two way data interaction. A remote content server communicates with network . An operator RDS proxy server managed by an operator RDS proxy server manager also communicates with the network . Thus these remotely accessible components are also part of the RDS IS network .

Real time synchronization of audio broadcast and corresponding RDS enhances mobile user experience and effective network interactivity. In support of this objective an FM broadcaster back office system program director terminal or FM broadcaster can prepare RDS data for preprogrammed broadcast e.g. continuous uninterrupted for a duration . The FM broadcaster can also insert RDS in live broadcasts such as breaking news talk shows sporting events etc. In an illustrative aspect mobile driven RDS broadcasts do not interfere with non mobile FM receivers such as car radios portable FM receivers etc. The broadcaster back office system can develop and distribute an Electronic Preview Guide EPG to broadcast stations and program director terminal PDT .

The RDS enabled mobile device can be a mobile device that enhances the user experience by drawing upon added graphics locally stored or available remotely. A configuration file provisioned on the mobile device can provide the necessary authentications and communication protocols to access such content from a carrier . It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that mobile devices can be various types of user equipment or access terminals e.g. converged handheld computer smart phone portable media player wireless capable handheld game console personal digital assistant and a laptop etc. . Alternatively to being a user device focused on user interaction aspects consistent with the disclosure herein can be used in a fixed position device or a component integral or in communication with an apparatus depicted a slave device .

Consider a routine daily broadcast scenario supported by the network . With regard to EPG distribution the FM Broadcaster back office system downloads EPG files to broadcast RDS server program director terminal and broadcast studio and mobile switching network . An illustrative EPG file is preformatted and may contain the following information a region and encoders involved one group or all b daily schedule with segments c segment time start and end d default RDS RT RT tags etc. for each segment talk show sport commentaries etc. for various user profiles e RDS for tracks title audio source etc. to be broadcast during the segment for various user profiles f repetition and group sequence changes if any g pertinent information to forward to the mobile operator e.g. broadcast RDS server forwards truncated or full information to mobile operator network h segment properties e.g. allow PDT changes allow network changes authorization level needed etc. i network loading threshold settings for broadcast for predefined times.

The broadcast studio generates audio as per EPG for the segment. The broadcast RDS server configures encoders in the involved region and begins to generate RDS UECP messages to encoders in synchronization with audio broadcast. The broadcast RDS server instructs the mobile switching network of segment start and pertinent information optional or if different than previous distribution . The broadcast RDS server can instruct the program director terminal s of segment start and pertinent information especially if different than previous distribution. The broadcast RDS server can modify RDS data based on network load. For example time based RDS usage distribution for different group types can be predicted or reported back e.g. high usage traffic data during rush hour high interactivity data during low voice traffic periods etc. . In one aspect the mobile switching network assesses the network loading in real time and notifies the broadcast RDS server which in turn instructs the FM RDS interactive services client applications in active mobile devices through subsequent RDS broadcast to manage the network load.

For instance the following illustrates a change made by the program director terminal in response to an operator request. During the segment broadcast a request is received from operator to the effect that network is to broadcast new RDS data. The broadcast requests from operator network is received in the broadcast RDS server which in turn determines if the request shall be honored or sent for authorization based on service level agreement SLA . Example of such requests include to make a change in a network loading threshold to broadcast vote tallies to broadcast commands for usage data collections etc. Authorization may be obtained from the program director. The new EPG is then made to honor the request assuming approved.

Tuned in mobile devices receive the audio and corresponding RDS. Mobile switching network prepares for the anticipated interactivity e.g. preload shopping content data. The responsible program director terminal monitors the synchronization of RDS with the actual audio and makes corrections as needed. the process can be repeated for the next segment

With regard to client application and network interactivity the client application of the mobile device decodes received RDS and based on the current user profile and network mode threshold derives the interactivity level for the user. If packet data interactivity is not allowed then RDS data is presented in non interactive mode. If packet data interactivity is allowed then based on received RDS data in an illustrative aspect the mobile device identifies the RDS proxy server e.g. from Server Control Bits SCB contained in the RDS message and template or application configuration . The mobile device establishes packet data session. The mobile device provides current user profile device profile network mode threshold received template RDS data etc. to the server . The proxy server determines pertinent content types available e.g. ringtones wallpapers audio etc. and actions from the data received and returns to application for presentation to user. The client application presents the received information to the user and awaits user action. The mobile device allows user to select the content type e.g. preview and download ringtones wallpaper titles etc. URL Call number and request the network for processing. The network ensures that the user can be properly billed for the action and download the content. The client application presents the received information to the user and stores in the appropriate content folder.

In an illustrative mobile device advantageously has a computing platform that executes a client application FM RDS Interactive Services . The computer platform comprises a processor and the memory communicating over a data bus . Processor controls the operation of the mobile device according to an operating system O S applications or programs or modules stored in memory . The control functions may be implemented for example in a single microprocessor or in multiple microprocessors. Suitable microprocessors may include general purpose and special purpose microprocessors state machines as well as digital signal processors. Further for example processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. In an illustrative depiction an FM RDS ASIC handles RDS data commands for the processor conveyed via the data bus .

Memory represents all of the memory associated with mobile device and may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM erasable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. For example computer program instructions and data utilized in the operation of mobile device may be stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory. Additionally memory may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or may be integrated with processor . Memory can also include areas partitioned into and designated for use as temporary memory buffers.

Processor or other data processing device such as ASIC can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident applications and or programs and or modules such as an FMRDS API stored in memory which resides within an advanced mobile subscriber software AMSS that also includes a stack of an FMRDS task generic FMRDS driver an OEM FMRDS component and a PC driver .

In an illustrative aspect raw RDS data is exchanged between the FMRDS API and an IFMRDS component and an IFM Radio component residing in a mobile environment e.g. BREW Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless an application development platform created by Qualcomm Corporation San Diego Calif. which in turn interact with a daemon and RDS IS client application executing in a BREW application layer along with other mobile applications .

In the exemplary aspect an integral graphical user interface GUI with an input device depicted as touch screen stylus and an output device depicted as display allows the user to interact with an FM application rendering that presents RDS receiver display that can have an interactive option for RDS interactive services. For example an input device can comprise a mechanism such as a key keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects an output device may include or comprise an audio speaker display a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that the mobile device contains at least one communication component capable of receiving a unidirectional FM broadcast as well as an interactive data channel. In some applications two or more discrete communication subsystems can provide RF and protocol capabilities for receiving or transceiving certain communication types. In the illustrative depiction an FM receiver receives an FM RDS broadcast signal from an FM RDS broadcaster . A wireless access network communication module e.g. 802.11 can receive data packet communication with a base node access point . Alternatively or in addition network interactivity can be achieved via a 2G 3G 4G cellular communication module that forms an air interface with a mobile switching network .

Certain functions can be distributed or remote to the mobile device as depicted by a near field transceiver that controls a remote device .

An RDS alert component can augment the accentuations and output capabilities of the GUI such a flashing light vibration audible signal etc. in order to alert a user that an interactive service is being offered via RDS.

In in another aspect a mobile communication device is presenting RDS interactive services on a GUI related to shopping for downloadable content related to a current playing audio program. RDS data display can provide a station identifier song name and artist derived from the RDS message which is advantageously captured and presented with headers. The GUI has also accessed a graphic either from local data cache or from network interaction pertaining to the current audio. This graphic can be a generic icon or picture that is associated with some information in the RDS message.

The RDS interactive services can include automatically presenting an advertisement related to audio program or that is unrelated.

User options that are made available for RDS interactive services are depicted as a selectable item for wallpaper selectable item for downloading the song currently being played selectable item for ringtones is disabled to reflect the nonavailability of this option although unavailable items can be omitted entirely. A selectable option enables rating the current audio program. A selectable option requests additional information about the currently displayed advertisement .

The RDS IS client can adapt the GUI depiction to accommodate limitations of the device . For example input controls are depicted as dial tone multiple frequency DTMF keypad cursor buttons and select button and left center and right programmable menu buttons . For instance use of the cursor buttons can highlight the song download available selectable option which can be executed by depressing right programmable menu button in response to instructions to activate a corresponding programmable option download depicted at .

Other RDS interactive services can be dynamically indicated and selected as suggested by a radio tab that has been scrolled to or otherwise made a top window in the GUI .

In a Navigation Nav tab has been selected or automatically presented according to some RDS command. A combination of data in the RDS message locally cached data and remotely accessed data is put together in response to the RDS message to give navigation guidance. This is depicted as a moving map display with a flagged area of interest and a text advisory LEFT LANE NORTHBOUND OF HIGHWAY 555 BLOCKED AT MILE MARKER 76. EXPECT 15 DELAY depicted at . Advantageously the RDS IS client is capable of approximating the position of the mobile communication device as depicted at . The RDS IS client has also reprogrammed user interaction options as depicted at to include Re route to seek additional interactive services. Such an implementation can be collaboration between a navigation guidance system and an FM RDS IS system to provide time critical navigation updates that are geographically targeted.

In the GUI of the mobile communication device has received an emergency alert which can illustrate an automatic function of RDS IS that is presented to the user. A similar map depiction is given with a text warning BOMB THREAT REPORTED AT ABC BUILDING AT MAIN AND CENTRAL AT 3 15 PM with a reprogrammed user interaction option depicted at for more Info .

To give an illustrative scenario for supporting the depictions of the RDS IS can respond to breaking news when the broadcast station interrupts regular programming and begins to broadcast the news. The broadcast station can instruct the program director to alter the RDS interactive services to correspond to the breaking news. The program director evaluates the available contents video clips images taped audio etc. reconstructs the EPG or overrides the existing EPG with a new one and instructs broadcast RDS servers to begin broadcasting the revised RDS message. The program director via the broadcast RDS server instructs the mobile switching network of the event and proxy server prepares the available contents for use by listeners. When regular programming is returned the program director time offsets the original EPG to synchronize with the broadcast. The client application in listener s mobile device detects the RDS change and performs new interactivity to present available content types.

In a game tab has been selected presenting a trivia content as depicted at to enhance interest in the audio program. To reduce data bandwidth required by the RDS IS messages questions could be taken from a standard list of questions triggered by a short code and looked up in cached memory such as what country is this artist from The possible answers could also be triggered by abbreviated codes to present multiple possible responses in this case United States United Kingdom Australia and Canada as depicted at . Alternatively or in addition a voting application can be presented as depicted at which in this case gives possible responses to a vote between two candidates as depicted at . The RDS IS client has presented reprogrammed option Next Contest at to get a new page.

In an advertisement history tab has been selected which includes a locally augmented depiction of an RDS advertisement currently presented in synchronization with audio program with a time tagged history of previously presented advertisements depicted at selectable by cursor and select key not shown with additional items retrievable with a next page option .

In an illustrative tagged RDS message data structure enhances the RDS RBDS standards with a Group type A that conveys the mobile Open Data Application ODA group type information as well as the Application ID AID to the mobile client application. In addition the data structure also carries operator specific information in 16 message bits available in block . The toggling of the most significant bit MSB Bit indicates that a different ODA data frame is being broadcast. Bits and identify the version of the BM interface being broadcast which allows support of up to four versions from the reference version. As the current version of BM interface is 0 in the illustrative aspect these bits can have value 00. Bit is set to 0 if ODA message frames are not encrypted and 1 if encrypted. Bits are currently reserved. The least significant byte bits is available for operator specific information for example indicating availability of content for download. In particular the bits can indicate whether wallpaper is available whether ringtone is available whether color ring back tone is available whether an alert is appropriate or not and whether the user can rate the item.

The application identifier AID can be unique for each mobile operator and broadcaster relationship or common AID between a broadcaster and multiple mobile operators.

Each content information ODA group can be defined to have a PI Code of 16 bits a group type field of 5 bits a TP flag field of 1 bit a program type code field of 5 bits a message frame segment number field of 5 bits a CRC cyclic redundancy code field of 8 bits in the first segment a message frame length field of 8 bits for the first segment and a message frame data for the segment specified field which is advantageously dynamically used in increments of 8 16 24 or 32 bits if last segment and 8 or 16 bits if the first segment.

In a data structure is depicted for a BM interface ODA message frame format. An ODA message frame consists of 8 bit CRC followed by Message Frame Length MFL followed by one or more messages. At transmission the message frame is divided in appropriate number of segments where each segment consists of four 4 bytes of message frame data except the first segment that can only have two bytes of message frame data. Depending upon the size of the message the last segment may consist of 1 to 4 bytes of message frame data. First byte of segment represents the CRC and second byte represents the message frame length in bytes. This allows the client application to detect the start of message and number of segments and bytes expected in the message frame data. Together with AID ODA message frame allows establishment of a relationship between broadcaster and client application.

The CRC eliminates interpretation of erroneous message frame resulting from receipt of ODA data from more than one broadcast station especially in overlapping regions. Both the message frame length and message frame data can be included in calculation of the CRC.

A sub message data may consist of various information parameters which may or may not be present in a sub message. In addition the parameter may be of different data types e.g. DSI Character string etc. . In order for mobile application to detect presence and data type of each parameter an exemplary information bit pattern is specified as the least significant bit LSB of the information pair bits corresponds to the presence or absence of the parameter. If this bit is set to 1 then the parameter information field is present. Else parameter is absent. The most significant bit MSB of information pair bits corresponds to the data type of the parameter which can be either DynamicSizedInt i.e. dynamic sized integer if 0 or NullTerminatedString if set to 1 . The above pattern continues left to right until all the information pair bits are specified for all possible parameters in the sub message. Thereby this dynamic sized integer mechanism allows backward software compatibility when parameter list is expanded in subsequent versions since older versions of the client application will simply ignore the new parameters.

In one aspect types of sub messages can include two types based on the presence of parameter information bits Static Sub Messages are the messages that have all of the fields mandatory. These sub messages do not require parameter information bits and as a result cannot be extended or enhanced in the future. Broadcaster information sub message is a type of static sub message. Dynamic sub messages are the sub messages whose content is dependent upon a parameter information bits field. It is possible to expand these messages by introducing new parameters without having adverse effect on previous software revisions. Contest sub messages vote sub messages promotion sub messages etc. are the examples of the dynamic sub messages.

In an illustrative aspect of providing for dynamic sub messages a DynamicSizedInt data type denotes a dynamic sized integer which is an integer such that if the first byte is between 0 127 then the value is simply the value of the first byte but if the MSB of the first byte is high i.e. the value of the first byte is between 128 255 then take the 7 LSBs of the first byte and concatenate them to the subsequent bytes after interpreting them as DynamicSizedInt. A MaxFourByteDynamicSizedInt data type is a DynamicSizedInt that is limited to four bytes so if the MSB of the 3rd byte is high then the entire 4th byte is treated as the 8 LSBs of the resulting dynamic sized int. In in another aspect a network apparatus includes modules that provide means to cause a computer to provide Radio Data System RDS interactive services to a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while delivering related content via a two way data channel. A module provides means for provisioning a plurality of user devices with an RDS IS client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A module provides means for broadcasting a Frequency Modulated FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged RDS message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the RDS IS client. A module provides means for facilitating delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

In another aspect in order to provide flexibility as to message size as constrained by the RDS data rate limitations dynamically sized messages are facilitated by flagging in most significant bits MSB whether the parameter is present and whether the parameter is fixed or variable dynamic length . If dynamic and carried on in sub messages the MSB can indicate in binary whether or not this is the end of the dynamically sized parameter. Thus a parameter could be 7 bits or 15 bits or 32 bits or some other length. This can be applied to any field declared to be a dynamically sized integer.

In in an additional aspect a user apparatus includes modules provide means for utilizing RDS interactive services at a population of user devices by optimizing available RDS bandwidth while receiving related content via a two way data channel. A module provides means for incorporating an RDS IS client and a configuration component that identifies a request location accessible via a wireless communication channel provided by a wireless carrier of data packet services. A module provides means for receiving a Frequency Modulated FM radio signal containing audio portion and a tagged RDS message referencing available content that can be interpreted by the RDS IS client. A module provides means for receiving delivery of the available content requested by a selected one of the plurality of user devices via a two way data channel via the wireless carrier.

What has been described above includes examples of the various aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the various aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the subject specification intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects. In this regard it will also be recognized that the various aspects include a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. To the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems and methods may include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter have been described with reference to several flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described herein. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed herein are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Furthermore the one or more versions may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed aspects. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the disclosed aspects.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product. It should be appreciated that any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

