---

title: Guidance system with varying error correction gain
abstract: A guided missile or projectile and associated guidance control are provided to control a path to a point of intersection with a potentially moving target. A new path is repetitively recomputed and acceleration orthogonal to the path is applied to minimize heading error and thereby to converge on the target. The gain of the control function is partly proportional to heading error, but the gain is reduced approaching the point of convergence. In this way, the guidance control is more responsive to actual variance of the true heading error and is less responsive to random error in sensing the target heading, which random error would otherwise increase in its contribution to corrective guidance movements approaching the point of intersection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07795565&OS=07795565&RS=07795565
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07795565
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080103
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract Grant Aegis N00024 03 C 5115. The United States Government has a non exclusive non transferable paid up license in this invention.

The invention relates to the field of guidance control systems providing a method and apparatus for dynamically guiding a controlled item such as a guided missile or guided projectile toward intersection with the target at a location such as a point along a potentially changing trajectory of the target.

Various guidance systems are possible for directing a guided missile projectile or other moving item toward a destination by use of corrective lateral acceleration. In a case where the destination is a stationary point there may be uncertainty in fixing the location of the target which advantageously is decreased as the missile or projectile approaches the target. The trajectory of the guided item may be influenced by external factors requiring guidance corrections. Where the destination is a predicted point of intersection with the trajectory of a moving object the trajectory of the object may change as well requiring guidance corrections.

A guidance system typically is coupled to sensing inputs from which up to date data is obtained in one way or another regarding the location and motion of the target. The guidance system is configured to control variable output devices for establishing an appropriate trajectory of the guided item to intersect with the target. A controller determines the amplitude of acceleration to be applied by the output devices to achieve the desired result. For example a proportional control may apply lateral acceleration as a function of the error between the predicted positions of the guided missile and the target at a distance ahead and at a future point in time. In a weapons system for example the desired result may be the intersection of the trajectories of the guided item such as a guided missile with an independently guided target such as an aircraft. A self propelled guided missile is used as an example in this description. It should be appreciated that the missile could be an artillery round or an object falling from an aircraft.

A guidance controller determines the acceleration to be applied by the output devices using a guidance scheme or guidance law for example embodied in the programming of a processor or other circuitry associated with the controller. An advantageous guidance scheme is to apply acceleration in an amount that is related according to the guidance law to the error between the current trajectory and the trajectory that will cause the desired result such as intersection of the trajectory of the missile with the trajectory of the target at the earliest possible time.

As a non limiting example a two dimensional guidance rule might predict a point of intersection from the progress of a line of sight to the target versus continuation of the missile along its current heading. In another example a range to the target may be known such that plotting the trajectory of the missile and that of the target can be done in three dimensional space. Whether calculated in two dimensions or three guidance corrections to the trajectory of the missile may be advantageous such as lateral acceleration impulses in a direction that is perpendicular to the velocity vector of the missile or perpendicular to a line of sight toward one or more of the target and the predicted point of intersection. The missile is steered.

An error between the current missile trajectory versus a desired missile trajectory to intersect with the target is identified when the bearing to the target differs from the expected bearing to the target leading to a conclusion that the expected bearing to the point of intersection is not accurate. The guidance law re computes the point of intersection and applies lateral acceleration to alter the trajectory of the missile e.g. in a direction perpendicular to a line of sight from the missile to the expected new point of intersection. Lateral acceleration for a time adjusts the missile velocity vector toward crossing the target trajectory at the new point of intersection.

Different sorts of targets might be stationary or on a fixed velocity vector or actively accelerating decelerating and or steered laterally in one direction or another in this context lateral encompasses up down left or right . The trajectory of the target and or the guided item may be affected by outside influences such as windage gravitational acceleration on a parabolic path or similar factors. In any case the controller estimates the target trajectory and guides the missile trajectory to intersect the target.

Mathematical guidance laws have been developed to operate on inputs that contain knowledge of the states of the missile and the target. The success of a guidance law turns on the accuracy of knowledge of the states of the missile and the target. There is some inherent error or tolerance in the accuracy of such knowledge for example the relative bearing of the target or its range or velocity vector or the like. There also is some inherent error or tolerance in the guidance control outputs.

In a typical guidance system inherent input and output errors are taken in stride. Thus the mathematics of the guidance law are designed and optimized to achieve their best results if the input data is accurate respecting the missile and target states. The guidance law will produce erroneous control accelerations if the input data is not accurate.

As a general automatic control technique it is known to smooth variations in input data in an effort to counteract noisy or poor input data. This reduces the responsiveness of the control. Another technique could be to reject input values that are out of an expected range e.g. differing by too large a threshold from the values of the next previous values. If a large threshold is chosen input errors can be introduced. If the threshold is small valid input data might be discarded. There is little practical alternative other than to rely on the input data that is available.

Absolute input accuracy cannot be expected in the practical world. Some error in defining the missile and target states will be encountered and will affect the accuracy and success of the guidance law. The effect of an input error is that the guidance law seeks to adjust the missile flight path to intersect an erroneously predicted intercept point along the trajectory of the target. It would be advantageous if techniques could be employed to reduce adverse effects of input error.

If one assumes a guidance situation involving a constant target speed and target heading as well as accurate input information and precise output control a guided missile beginning on an arbitrary heading might be expected to require smaller and smaller lateral accelerations to make course corrections as the missile homes in more and more accurately on the correct point at which the missile trajectory will intersect the target trajectory. On the other hand the target may change speed or heading or the trajectory of the missile may be affected by external influences. If so corrections are necessary. Moreover as the missile nears the target and nears the point of intersection a given lateral displacement distance perpendicular to a line of sight from the missile to the intersection point subtends an angular displacement that becomes greater than the same lateral displacement did from farther away due to parallax.

Assuming that input errors may arise for example due to random noise in assessing the current target heading the guidance law responds nominally by applying acceleration in a direction perpendicular to a line of sight to the point of intersection to alter the trajectory. Noise may cause the guidance control to alter the trajectory in a given direction away from an accurate heading leading toward target interception. Assuming that the error was momentary subsequent control iterations mitigate the error as the guidance control alters the trajectory back in the other direction to more nearly accurate. Assuming that errors continue to arise randomly the result can be unnecessary steering movements. In a proportionate line of sight control based on angular heading error the amplitude of corrective steering accelerations and subsequent corrections may increase nearing the target. Unnecessary steering movements reduce the speed of the missile and detract from the mission.

It would be advantageous to provide a technique whereby a guidance system might distinguish between input data that is affected by noise and input data that is accurate without discarding potentially valid input data. However a variance in an input value due to noise may be difficult to distinguish from an effect to which the guidance system should respond such as evasive movements of an independently guided target.

Missile guidance engineers have sought to mitigate adverse effects of noise leading to erroneous input values in various ways. One technique is to limit the frequency of missile guidance updates which is a way to smooth the guidance data input. As discussed this reduces the responsiveness of the guidance system to changes in input conditions such as evasive movements of the target.

Fuzzy logic techniques have been applied to the problem as disclosed in Fuzzy Guidance in the Aerodynamic Homing Missiles Becan Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Intelligence 2004 PP. 266 269. Fuzzy logic controls generally reduce the incidence of wide control swings by imposing rules but in so doing also reduce the potential responsiveness of a control.

Another known technique is to designate a series of way points as intermediate destinations to intersect while approaching the target rather than to re compute the next destination at the same frequency as new and possibly noise affected input data points become available to define the current target location which would lead to frequent course corrections. This technique also renders the guidance system less accurate and responsive to the target because the next previously computed way point may not be an optimal way point in view of changed conditions. The target may have deviated from its speed or heading since the way points were computed.

What is needed is a way to distinguish valid course correction needs so as to ignore or at least damp the response to erroneous input data that would lead to unnecessary or counter productive course corrections. At the same time the control scheme needs to maintain a sensitive and highly responsive reaction to valid course corrections to achieve intersection with the target trajectory as quickly and directly as possible.

It is an object of the present disclosure to provide a guidance system and guidance control law that responds robustly to valid heading errors and less robustly or not at all to invalid heading errors that are the result of noisy or inaccurate input data. The guidance law re computes guidance data according to some schedule e.g. at each successive update of input values defining the current bearing of the target. The guidance law determines an output value that determines at least the direction and preferably both the direction and amplitude of lateral acceleration that will redirect the missile or other guided vehicle toward a state in which the missile will intersect the recomputed trajectory of the target.

A further object is to cause the guidance law to operate in manner that compensates for detected heading error that is dominated or affected by random input error as opposed to true heading bias that must be removed.

The disclosed controller and control method repetitively predict the trajectory of the target plot an intersecting missile trajectory to a point of intersection and apply acceleration as necessary in a direction perpendicular to a line of sight from the missile to the point of intersection. The amount of acceleration can be related to the extent of error by a proportional or other function for example damped to minimize overshoot. The acceleration can be applied using controlled outputs such as devices for redirecting thrust movable aerodynamic control surfaces or other steering arrangements lateral acceleration devices such as steering thrusters.

According to an advantageous aspect the corrective acceleration function is adjusted as interception approaches. This compensates for the increasing contribution of random noise in the assessment of heading error as point of interception approaches.

A novel technique for noise tolerant guidance as disclosed herein seeks to evaluate the commands that result from application of an applicable guidance law. The technique is applicable to various specific guidance laws and is discussed in the example of a feedback error control function.

A basic input to a guidance control system is provided by sensor data signal provided continuously or sampled successively and reported over time to a guidance controller such as a processor identifying the present position of a target to be intercepted. In one embodiment the position information is limited to identification of a line of sight to the target. Referring to a missile or projectile is assumed to be located at the origin of the orthogonal X Y Z axes shown axis Z being perpendicular to the X Y plane . In different embodiments the guided item might be a self propelled missile such as a rocket or the invention could be applied to control of a projectile such as an artillery shell falling in a line or parabolic arc. For purposes of discussion the guided item will be described in the non limiting example of a self propelled missile. The graphics are illustrated showing displacements in two dimensions but operation in three dimensions including displacement along the Z axis also should be inferred.

An exemplary target might be a moving aircraft a vehicle a projectile or the like. At a time to the target is disposed along a line of sight heading LOSand at a time t the target has advanced along its velocity vector Vto a new line of sight heading LOS. With knowledge of the range from the missile to the target and knowledge of the velocity vector of the missile it would be possible to plan an interception point at which the missile trajectory and the target trajectory cross at an acute angle. However without specific knowledge of the range to the target the missile trajectory also can be guided to converge with the target trajectory at a planned point of interception considering missile and target bearing. Assuming that the missile is at an arbitrary heading acceleration Acc. is applied in an amplitude and in one direction or another perpendicular to the line of sight toward the planned point of interception so as to move the velocity vector of the missile toward a vector Vand in due course to intersect the target at a planned point of interception PIP.

However in a subsequent guidance control iteration it may be sensed that the line of sight to the target is now along line of sight LOSand that the estimation of the planned interception point must be changed to from PIPto PIP. Accordingly the necessary acceleration Acc is applied in direction and amplitude to move the velocity vector of the missile toward vector V. As this process continues the missile trajectory arcs more or less steeply into alignment with the trajectory of target . Provided that the missile speed exceeds the target speed over a necessary range the trajectories intersect one another.

The control system repetitively posits a point of intersection with the target and compares the latest computed heading needed to reach the point of intersection against the previously computed heading. In the event of an error found between the current heading of the missile and the point of intersection as most recently computed acceleration is applied in relationship to the extent of error and in a direction that is perpendicular to the line of sight lateral up or down or a combination thereof from the missile to the point of trajectory intersection.

However in the foregoing description there are multiple components to the repetitive heading corrections. Correction of true heading error initially concerns bringing the velocity vector of the missile into line with the required vector Vto meet the point of interception. The true heading error can be expected to decrease leading up to the point of intersection.

Another component of the heading error is variance due to change in the expected and or sensed velocity vector of the target. The variance may result from changes in the velocity vector of the target for example because of target maneuvering. The variance also has a component of sensor error or tolerance.

During the trajectory leading up to the point of intersection the variance is generally relatively constant while the true heading error is reduced which is shown in the timing diagram of in which time progresses from right to left . When the point of interception is close the geometry may be such that relatively larger accelerations are needed because the range to the target is less for example the apparent size of a given displacement distance at the target increases as the range decreases . This is demonstrated in .

Comparing and and assuming that there is a given tolerance in the sensing of the angle of the line of sight to the target it can be seen that the true heading error the variance due to the geometry of decreasing range and also the variance due to sensor error e.g. noise in the sensor signal have different contributions in determining the acceleration Acc that must be applied by the guidance system to correct the heading of the missile as shown in .

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a statistical measure and or a computation can be used to assess the probability and or extent that the latest computed guidance command is likely to be a response to a needed course correction true heading error or a response to variance in the intercept point.

Guidance laws typically are based on the proposition that the control has a valid input representing the true target state and that there is no noise in the system. Insofar as there may be a tolerance in the accuracy with which the target heading range and speed are assessed a guidance system can be as accurate as the available input data defining the target state. However excessive reliance on the input data as being true can result in a system that is not optimal especially when extending the range of interceptors.

It is appropriate as discussed herein to make adjustments to the system that account for poor quality target tracking data. Specifically it is an object to produce guidance rules and techniques that are capable when target tracking data quality is poor and other things being equal to guide an interceptor farther than is possible with comparable standard guidance laws intercepting the target more quickly and typically intercepting the target with a higher intercept velocity than a conventional control. The solution is not simply damping or fuzzy logic instead being a guidance scheme that takes into account aspects of target interception geometry probability and feedback control theory.

Guidance laws are often conceived to operate accurately when input data provides perfect knowledge of missile and target states. It is unrealistic to expect perfect knowledge or absolutely accurate input data which is of course understood. However it is an aspect of the present disclosure that the guidance law should not respond blindly to input data leading to control reactions based on erroneous data characterizing the missile and target states.

The extent of error in the input data from which missile and target states are determined can greatly affect the performance of a guidance law that might be very effective if the error was eliminated. Responding to erroneous data can cause the missile to adjust its flight path to home toward an erroneous predicted intercept points. Assuming that the data error is intermittent and an erroneous adjustment is made the missile trajectory at least will be diverted from optimal to follow a longer slower and more undulating path than is desirable. If the data error is random the missile may proceed generally in the direction of the target but its path can be characterized by frequent or excessive steering operations that divert the missile from the optimal path and require corrections in further steering operations.

Accordingly a method is provided herein whereby the guidance law assesses the validity of the heading error at each update and adjusts the guidance law to compensate for a heading error that is affected by and perhaps dominated by random error as opposed to a true heading bias or error that the guidance law can operate to remove.

It is possible to employ different specific guidance laws for calculating the bearing of the expected interception point and for determining the amplitude of the lateral acceleration Acc. However it can be assumed that the amplitude of the lateral acceleration is at least partly proportional to the angular heading error. The determination of the heading error is based on knowledge of the current target state and possibly on additional knowledge or expectations. For example it may be expected that a powered target will continue along its current path or that an unpowered target will descend in a parabola from its current path due to gravity etc. To simplify the explanation such complications need not be addressed at this point.

Assuming a proportional navigation guidance scheme the commands during a missile s terminal homing phase can be based on the line of sight rate of the intercept point see equation 1 and commands to accelerate are applied perpendicular to the line of sight in an amplitude. dot over 1 

An equivalent relationship for acceleration commands during the missile s midcourse phase of flight is shown in equation 2. The guidance commands calculated are orthogonal to the missile velocity vector and can be expressed using the angle between the target velocity vector and the line of sight from the missile to the intercept point. This is defined as the heading error .

For a given intercept point one can assume there is a variance E in the predicted intercept point. This variance is assumed to be perpendicular to the direction defined by the line of sight from the missile to the intercept point. As the intercept point varies from update to update due to E the guidance law computes new acceleration commands based upon the heading error . This heading error contains components due to both true heading error and also heading error due to variations in the target state vector. One can describe the heading error in the following manner 3 Where 

The guidance control uses one or another of the possible algorithms to determine and more or less aggressively apply acceleration to bring the heading of the missile onto a heading along a line of sight to the point of interception. The guidance movements reduce the heading error in an error responsive feedback control arrangement. Therefore the true heading error becomes less over time as the missile responds to each guidance command and homes in on the intercept point. As the intercept point nears the missile also reduces the heading error due to the variation in the predicted intercept point possibly resulting from maneuvering accelerations by the target and possibly due to a noisy input signal characterizing the relative bearing of the target .

The two types of heading error and are inseparable contributors to the heading error that drives the guidance control and one cannot be sure whether one or the other is the major contributor in any particular guidance iteration. However according to the present disclosure the values and are recognized to be independent variables and this fact is exploited. Equation 3 shows how the guidance acceleration command is the product of the sum of two independent variables and .

As shown graphically in the mean value of true heading error reaches zero at T 0 namely at the point of interception. The variance value may become smaller approaching the point of interception but as the point of interception approaches and approaches zero the relative contribution of the noise to the heading error that drives the guidance system begins to dominate see Equation 3 above .

If the proportional guidance scheme is directly followed up to the time of interception the incidence of superfluous corrections in missile heading will increase as the missile approaches interception. is a timing plot showing the envelope of possible accelerations that characterize operation of a proportional control when the true and variance heading errors as shown in are applied to produce proportional lateral acceleration to reduce the heading error namely as in Equation 3. In this case the window of acceleration due to variance becomes exponential approaching interception and the geometry increases the apparent size of a given displacement near the point of interception.

Corrective accelerations may be necessary and desirable near the point of interception including at a relatively large amplitude if needed to make a correction in a short time. Nevertheless insofar as accelerations are made effectively to reduce those accelerations are not useful and can operate to retard the elimination of true heading error and or tend to slow the missile down by generating spurious guidance accelerations.

An guidance control as shown in in block diagram deals with true heading error corrections and variance corrections due to changes in target state and tolerance in sensor data schematically shown in . In this control arrangement the relationship of heading errors due to variance and true heading error are distinguished by the control. According to one embodiment the respective contributions of and to the acceleration control are assessed separately. According to another embodiment the probability that a given total heading error is due substantially to the variance assessed and used to limit the gain factor K applied to the acceleration control Eq. 3 approaching the point of intersection.

It is not prudent to assume that a given heading error must necessarily be due to variance and not true heading error that might result for example from evasive acceleration of the target. However it is an aspect of the disclosure that the acceleration equation is made less responsive when one can conclude that the probability is high that a substantial part of perceived heading error is likely to be contributed by noise.

Classic proportional navigation theories may rely on a predetermined navigation gain factor value for term K in the acceleration equation Eq. 3 . For example the navigation gain might be set to a constant value 3 for a guidance solution that seeks to minimize the total of missile acceleration squared. In a technique using trajectory shaping maximum and minimum gain factors K1 and K2 can be imposed in an effort to optimize gain e.g. with K1 6 and K2 2. Nevertheless when a noise variance is introduced as shown in even a gain optimization scheme results in increased acceleration demand approaching the point at which time to go equals zero i.e. the point of interception or at least the predicted interception point PIP . Therefore according to the present disclosure a different scheme is employed to limit acceleration demand approaching the predicted interception point. This preferably is accomplished using a statistical measure as oppose to a function based on the time to go to the predicted interception point.

As a means to counteract the influence of the navigation gain factor K is decreased in situations where becomes statistically relevant to the total heading error in order to cause the guidance control to respond to the true heading error present in the total heading error . A statistical measure based on the time to go is defined to estimate the probability that a given heading error results entirely from . The navigation factor K is adjusted according to this probability making the acceleration less responsive approaching the predicted interception point.

According to another aspect however the navigation guidance gain K is kept between upper and lower limits reaching the minimum value at a time to go of zero. In one embodiment a minimum limit value of K 2 ensures that the control is responsive to some extent to heading error even as the mean value of the heading error goes to zero at a time to go of zero. Preferably an upper bound of gain K is selected as a value that would be optimal if the system had little or no noise and the variance E was due to true changes in the heading of the target due to maneuvering or other causes. In one embodiment the maximum limit value is chosen as K 6.

Referring to a current value of K or K1 can be determined from a probability curve. The normalized gain modifier is used to scale the value of K from a maximum value that is optimal assuming no noise to a minimum value. This relationship is applicable to the curves of to provide for a reduced guidance gain approaching a time to go of zero.

For an embodiment using trajectory shaping two gains can be employed and according to one embodiment two decreasing gains can be provided with one value K2 provided from a scaled value of K1. It is not strictly necessary to tune the gains together however an optimal relationship is possible. The optimal relationship between trajectory shaping and proportional navigation is used in Equation 4 to determine the value of K2 from the scaled value if K1 as shown.

The foregoing disclosure of preferred arrangements and embodiments is intended as illustrating and not limiting the subject matter. Reference should be made to the appended claims to assess the scope of the invention in which exclusive rights are claimed.

