---

title: Microchannel laser having microplasma gain media
abstract: The invention provides microchannel lasers having a microplasma gain medium. Lasers of the invention can be formed in semiconductor materials, and can also be formed in polymer materials. In a microlaser of the invention, high density plasmas are produced in microchannels. The microplasma acts as a gain medium with the electrodes sustaining the plasma in the microchannel. Reflectors are used with the microchannel for obtaining optical feedback to obtain lasing in the microplasma gain medium in devices of the invention for a wide range of atomic and molecular species. Several atomic and molecular gain media will produce sufficiently high gain coefficients that reflectors (mirrors) are not necessary. Microlasers of the invention are based on microplasma generation in channels of various geometries. Preferred embodiment microlaser designs can be fabricated in semiconductor materials, such as Si wafers, by standard photolithographic techniques, or in polymers by replica molding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442091&OS=08442091&RS=08442091
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08442091
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081027
---
This application claims priority from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 000 400 which was filed on Oct. 25 2007.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA9550 07 1 0003 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Compact lasers that are commercially available are semiconductor lasers that rely upon photon generation in a solid in response to electrical current. These lasers come in various forms and find many applications although II VI compound semiconductors have also lased. They are generally fabricated in the Group III V materials systems. Although semiconductor lasers and laser bars are capable of generating continuous power outputs in the kW range and above the peak power output available with such lasers is generally low. In particular semiconductor lasers are not capable at present of providing pulsed visible or ultraviolet UV radiation at high peak power kW and above . Furthermore semiconductor lasers generally produce output beams of poor quality that are highly divergent and require external collimation. When higher power beams are required large and expensive gas chemical solid state non semiconductor or excimer lasers are typically used.

University of Illinois researchers have led the development of microcavity plasma devices. United States Published Application 2007 0200499 entitled Polymer Microcavity and Microchannel Devices and Fabrication Method and published Aug. 30 2007 discloses microcavity plasma device arrays formed in polymers and also discloses high aspect ratio microchannels in which plasma can be formed. Arrays disclosed in that application can have high aspect ratio microchannels that are disclosed as connecting microcavities and also as being formed into patterns having a wide variety of shapes e.g. straight zig zig and other shapes. Very long high aspect ratio channels are disclosed e.g. a one meter channel that is 100 m wide yielding an aspect ratio of 10 000 1.

Other work by University of Illinois researchers has provided microcavity plasma devices with tapered microcavities as disclosed in Eden et al. is U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 918 which issued Sep. 26 2006. The tapered microcavities could be formed by micromachining drilling and other semiconductor fabrication techniques in semiconductor materials. By a preferred wet chemical semiconductor etch the taper is caused by a difference in the etch rates of the etchant along the different crystalline planes of the semiconductor being etched. The shape of the cavities in the 918 patent when etching is used is also dependent on the semiconductor material used due to the disparity in the etch rates along the different crystalline planes in different material systems. Semiconductor photolithographic and etching processing techniques are disclosed as being a convenient and inexpensive way to form tapered microcavity plasma devices.

The invention provides microchannel lasers having a microplasma gain medium. Lasers of the invention can be formed in semiconductor materials and can also be formed in polymer materials. In a microlaser of the invention high density plasmas are produced in microchannels. The microplasma acts as a gain medium with electrodes sustaining a plasma in the microchannel. Reflectors are used with the microchannel for obtaining optical feedback to obtain lasing in the microplasma gain medium in devices of the invention for a wide range of atomic and molecular species. Several atomic and molecular gain media will produce sufficiently high gain coefficients that reflectors mirrors are not necessary. Microlasers of the invention are based on microplasma generation in channels of various geometries. Preferred embodiment microlaser designs can be fabricated in semiconductor materials such as Si wafers by standard photolithographic techniques or in polymers by replica molding.

The invention provides microchannel lasers having a microplasma gain medium. Lasers of the invention can be formed in semiconductor materials and can also be formed in polymer materials. In a microlaser of the invention high density plasmas are produced in microchannels which can be formed to have high aspect length to width ratios. The microplasma acts as a gain medium with electrodes sustaining plasma in the microchannel. Reflectors may be used in conjunction with the microchannel for obtaining optical feedback to obtain lasing in microplasma gain media in devices of the invention for a wide range of atomic or molecular species. However several atomic and molecular gain media will produce sufficiently high gain coefficients that optical feedback and therefore reflectors are not necessary.

Microlasers of the invention are based on microplasma generation in channels of various geometries. Preferred embodiment microlaser designs can be is fabricated in semiconductor materials such as Si wafers by standard photolithographic techniques or in polymers by replica molding. Preferred embodiment microlasers are inexpensive to fabricate so much so that the lasers could be considered to be disposable after limited usage. Inexpensive lasers can be beneficial for several applications including cell sorting and environmental applications. Both applications often require pulsed visible or ultraviolet UV radiation at high peak powers kW and above which are not generally available with semiconductor lasers. Because the gain medium in the present invention is a plasma rather than a semiconductor output wavelengths ranging from the deep UV to the mid infrared are available from a single device. Small low cost lasers provide the ability to produce field use instruments for environmental cell sorting and other applications.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

The width of the triangular microchannel at the surface is preferably in a range of about 20 100 m and its length can be at least several centimeters. As an example the microchannel can be about 3.5 cm in length. The aspect ratio for the microchannel in the example embodiment is on the order of 1000 1. The electrodes on either side of the triangular microchannel are electrically isolated and therefore can be driven at different voltages relative to the potential of the substrate . Driving of the electrodes is illustrated in where voltages Vand Vare applied separately to the electrodes. The electrodes drive and sustain plasma in the microchannel and the plasma acts as a gain medium.

In an experiment a microchannel device in accordance with having a channel width and length of 50 m and 3.8 cm respectively was operated in 500 Torr of Ne. The plasma that developed was uniform along the entire length of the cavity and was well confined to the trench. Such plasma provides an ideal medium for producing lasing from a variety of atomic and molecular species.

To establish lasing in the plasma gain media formed in the microchannel optical feedback is often required. However several atomic and molecular gain media will produce sufficiently high gain coefficients that optical feedback is not necessary. Where necessary optical feedback can be provided by a number of different strategies. In optical reflectors may be installed at both ends of the microplasma channel for the purpose of providing optical feedback for the microplasma gain medium generated in the microchannel when pumped by electrical excitation of the excitation electrodes . The optical feedback structure increases the effective length of the microchannel and can restrict the allowed spatial and spectral modes of operation.

Alternate optical feedback strategies can be used as well including external reflectors and gratings. are simplified diagrams showing side views of microlaser devices of the invention. The device uses external reflectors to provide optical feedback for a plasma generated in the device which is otherwise consistent with . As illustrated in the external mirrors may be mounted or affixed directly onto the silicon wafer from which the triangular cross section microchannel is fabricated. An alternative approach is to first fabricate a pre aligned resonator comprising a base and two optical mirrors one mounted on each side of the base. The mirror mountings will allow for adjustment of each mirror such that optical alignment of the two mirrors with respect to the optical axis between them is feasible. The final step is then to mount the microchannel device of onto the base and between the two mirrors and optically aligning the channel with respect to the optical axis of the two pre aligned mirrors.

The device uses a wavelength selective reflector such as a Bragg structure situated just above the plasma microchannel. Bragg reflectors offer many possibilities for the laser design presented here including mounting the Bragg reflector immediately on top of the completed device of . If a Bragg reflector is used to provide optical feedback then mirrors are no longer necessary on each end of the microchannel and windows fabricated from glass quartz sapphire ZnSe if infrared laser operation is anticipated etc. are simply affixed to each end of the device as shown. As is well known in the art the Bragg reflector can be made from inexpensive materials such as polymers. Also as mentioned above the device may use such windows in the case where the plasma medium provides sufficient gain to avoid the necessity of the mirrors that provide optical feedback. Optical output is from the windows or the reflectors along the direction of the primary axis of the microchannel .

Optical feedback for the microchannel device of when required can also be provided by an air Si Bragg structure a one dimensional photonic crystal such as that illustrated in . The device of integrates the microchannel in Si with a Bragg grating comprising alternating regions of Si and air. The grating includes a dielectric stack and an output coupler dielectric stack . Insulator surrounds the device to cut down on leakage and excess capacitive current and provides the alternate regions of dielectric in the Bragg grating structure. The device of shows a gas inlet outlet to permit the plasma medium to be changed. Laser output is from a cleaved facet at the output coupler . The structure of is useful only for laser wavelengths that correspond to photon energies less than the bandgap of Si 1.1 eV otherwise the optical losses will be unacceptably high. The specific dimensions shown in are those for Bragg structure having maximum reflectivity at an infrared wavelength of 1.73 m.

The structure of is fabricated by photolithography and conventional etching such that the Bragg reflector is aligned with the axis of the microplasma microchannel. An advantage of this arrangement is that the alignment of the Bragg reflector with the axis of the plasma microchannel can be extraordinarily accurate because of the precision of microfabrication in a semiconductor material such as silicon. Also after the structure is fabricated all is that remains is to fill the channel with the desired gas es and seal the top and ends of the channel with an inexpensive window material. An air Si Bragg structure is of greatest value for wavelengths longer than 1 m which corresponds to the bandgap for Si. At shorter wavelengths losses in Si can become unacceptably high. Several lasers of commercial value such as Xe at 1.73 m and COat 10.6 m meet this criterion.

The illustrated devices and other devices in the invention can be produced with other materials and fabrication processes. Replica molding for example can be used to inexpensively fabricate linear microchannels as well as the Bragg reflectors in polymers. United States Published Application 2007 0200499 entitled Polymer Microcavity and Microchannel Devices and Fabrication Method published Aug. 30 2007 discloses microcavity plasma device arrays formed in polymers and also discloses high aspect ratio microchannels in which plasma can be formed via the replica molding fabrication process. Such microchannels can provide the necessary gain medium for a laser of the invention.

A plurality of microchannels are formed in a polymer layer . The polymer layer is preferably an epoxy layer or an ultraviolet curable polymer both of which are useful in replica molding processes that can be used to form the microchannels . While the microchannels have a rectangular cross section in the microchannels can have other cross sectional shapes including the triangular shape of the embodiment. In fact the triangular channel device structure of can readily be modified to realize a linear array of triangular cross section microchannels that are side by side.

A dielectric coating preferably is used to protect and insulate the inner surfaces of the microcavities from plasma produced within the microcavities . The dielectric coating also provides a barrier that slows or blocks vapors outgassing from the polymer layer from reaching the microcavities . The dielectric coating can be a thin film for example a thin film of titanium dioxide TiO silicon oxide tantalum oxide magnesium oxide or silicon nitride.

The microcavities are sealed by a second polymer substrate . The substrate carries an upper electrode and is bonded to the polymer layer via a thin adhesive such as a thin layer of epoxy. In preferred embodiments the substrate is selected so as to be transparent in the wavelength region of interest for a specific laser ultraviolet visible or infrared . Very long high aspect ratio microchannels can be formed in polymer materials e.g. a one meter channel that is 20 m wide. In the embodiment optical feedback for each of the microchannels is provided by a wavelength selective grating such as separate distributed Bragg gratings . The other optical feedback structures discussed above can also be used to provide the necessary optical feedback for lasing. After the structure of has been fabricated it is evacuated by a vacuum system and backfilled with the desired gas or gases to a pressure of typically 300 1000 Torr. The microlaser system of will provide multiple laser outputs from the separate microchannels thereby permitting the realization of phased arrays.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

