---

title: Apparatus for making miniature explosive powder charges
abstract: An apparatus for compressing powders and the like including a head assembly with a distensible elastic platen mounted in a chambered header plate containing a pressurizing fluid. The elastic platen distends in response to the pressurizing fluid. Further, a base assembly includes a rigid platen mounted in a base plate. The rigid platen includes a face with at least one cavity, into which is added powder to be compressed. The elastic platen is aligned with the rigid platen, and during compression, the two platens may be held firmly in contact. The pressurizing fluid pumped into the head assembly causes the elastic platen to deform forming a single distention per cavity. The distensions compress the powder to an optimal density. The apparatus safely and easily compact multiple small samples of explosives and the like into miniature charges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08382921&OS=08382921&RS=08382921
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08382921
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080911
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to compaction presses and in particular to an apparatus for compacting explosive materials easily and safely to form miniature charges of optimized density.

With the miniaturization of munitions and their components there is a growing need for technology for reliably fabricating primary charges of increasingly smaller diameters. There exist several methods for example ink jet printing and femtosecond laser cutting by which explosive materials can be formed in small volumes however there are some drawbacks. Laser cutting methods cannot be used with most materials including primary explosives such as lead azide and lead styphnate which detonate if irradiated with a laser sufficient for ablating material. Roos E. Benterou J. Lee R. Roeske F. Stuart B. 2002 . Preprint UCRL JC 145670. pp. 11 Taos N M SPIE International Symposium High Power Laser Ablation . In addition ink jet and other methods leave a charge with less than optimal density.

Miniature rams have been used to compact charges in rigid cavities however as the dimensions of the cavity decrease the rams become more prone to breakage and variations in diameter and alignment become a greater concern. Also the technology is difficult to scale as multiple needle like rams across a broad area are susceptible to skew bending and breakage due to otherwise small variations in alignment flatness and load height of the explosive in the cavities. Tooling of the cavities and rams becomes more difficult and expensive.

A schematic of a prior art ram press is shown in . The press includes a rigid platen with a plurality of cavities . The cavities are filled with powdered charge material. The powdered charge material is compacted by a ram one ram per cavity where each ram is typically rigid and not deformable forming the charge . The schematic illustrates the position of the rams after compression and retraction of the ram. The multiple rams depend from the press head plate driven by cylinder .

In the related art miniature charges are now on the order of 1 millimeter in diameter and 0.5 millimeters thick. Therefore the rams used in the prior art apparatus are just under 1 millimeter in diameter and their margin of error e.g. tolerance must be correspondingly small.

Needed is an apparatus to compress small samples of powders such as primary explosives. The samples can be formed by ink jet printing and the like and then compacted easily and safely to form miniature charges of optimized density.

The invention is an apparatus for compressing powders and more particularly an apparatus for making miniature explosive powder charges. The apparatus comprises a head assembly with a distensible elastic platen mounted in a chambered header plate containing a pressurizing fluid. The elastic platen distends where possible in response to the pressure of the pressurizing fluid. Alternatively stated when there is an increase in the pressure in the chambered header plate the distensible elastic platen will deform under adequate pressure forming one or more distensions and as the elastic platen distends there will be an increase in volume of pressurizing fluid in the head assembly. Conversely when there is a reduction in the pressure the distension will retract and the volume in the chambered header plate decreases. Pressure is required to cause the distension. The apparatus has a base assembly with a rigid platen mounted in a base plate. The rigid platen has a face with at least one cavity. Each cavity has an opening that opens to the face of the rigid platen. The elastic platen is aligned with the rigid platen. Compression occurs when the platens are in contact. During compression the elastic platen deforms forming multiple distensions one distention per cavity that extends into the cavity. The elastic platen cannot distend against the face of the rigid platen as the platens are held firmly in contact. The shape of the cavity such as the diameter will largely determine the diameter of the distension. Operationally the distension acts as a ram having variable length and diameter. The length of the distension is a function of several factors amongst them are the depth of the cavity the amount of material in the cavity and the density of the material. In the case of a cavity filled with a fluffy loose powder having a low density the distension pushes the powder toward the bottom or the rear depending on the orientation of the cavity of the cavity to a point where the material is compacted to a density that resists further densification. Higher pressure may result in greater compaction and densification with coincident extension of the distension. If the starting powder is more granular then generally there will be less densification because the stating material is denser. The apparatus is especially suitable for safely and easily compacting a plurality of small samples of explosives and the like and in particular primary and high explosives therein forming miniature charges of optimized density. The small samples are generally created using ink jet technology and several of these small samples are combined to form miniature charges.

The elastic platen includes a non tacky polymer having substantially no adherence to the cavity or the various powders or plurality of small samples. The polymer is deformable when pressurized and retracts cleanly and readily when the pressure is released.

A cavity can have one or more air outlets that provide an expulsion route for air entrained in the cavity. Alternatively the cavity can be evacuated.

The naming convention employed in this disclosure utilizes the accepted notation that articles a and an can denote one or more and are not limited to a single number.

The apparatus is a means for compacting materials to a desired density and is particularly suitable for safely and easily compacting a plurality of small samples of explosives and the like and in particular primary and high explosives therein forming miniature charges of optimized density. The apparatus as shown in includes a head assembly and base assembly . The head assembly includes a distensible elastic platen mounted in a chambered header plate containing a pressurizing fluid that is conveyed through a fluid line . In the schematic illustration the exemplary chambered header plate has only one chamber but in other exemplary embodiments additional chambers may be employed if necessary. The arrows are representative of the pressurizing fluid which applies a uniform pressure to the back of the distensible elastic platen . The base assembly includes a rigid platen mounted in a base plate . The rigid platen has a face with at least one cavity each cavity has an opening that extends and opens to the face of the rigid platen . In an exemplary embodiment five cavities are illustrated in the schematic however the rigid platen could have many more cavities of various dimensions such that many powder samples could be simultaneously compressed to the same density.

Referring to a material such as loose powder and or inkjet samples are preloaded into the cavities and the distensible elastic platen is held firmly in contact with the surface of the rigid platen . Referring to pressurizing fluid is pumped into the chamber through fluid line . The uniform pressure causes the distensible elastic platen to expand. The base assembly and the head assembly are held firmly together such that the only available expansion is a deformation of the distensible elastic platen . The distensible elastic platen deforms producing a single distension per cavity. The distension extends through the opening compressing the loose powder and or small samples . The compression densifies the loose powder and or small samples forming miniature charges or miniature samples of optimized density.

The distensible elastic platen is composed of a non tacky elastomeric polymer having substantially no adherence to the cavity or the various powders. The polymer is deformable when pressurized and retracts cleanly and readily when the pressure is released. The elastomeric polymer is selected from the group consisting of a silicone rubber a polyurethane rubber a polyacrylate rubber a natural rubber and a combination thereof. Various grades of these polymers have excellent elongation and recovery retraction . To facilitate a clean release the distensible elastic platen can be coated with a release agent such as a silicone release a fluorinated compound or polyvinyl N octadecyl carbamate pvodc .

In an exemplary embodiment the elastomeric polymer is intrinsically of low tack or is compounded to have low tack and retracts cleanly and readily not adhering to the cavity or to the preloaded powder or the compressed powder. In an exemplary embodiment polydimethylsiloxane i.e. silicone rubber or PDMS has good release properties it is substantially inert and it has good recovery retraction . In an exemplary embodiment PDMS is used as the elastomeric polymer.

The apparatus may further include a means for expelling air entrained in the cavity or in the powder small samples being compressed. Air outlets in the cavity are a possibility but when compressing powders of primary explosive a major concern is where fractious particles of the explosive may stray. Therefore in an exemplary embodiment the apparatus employs an evacuation system as an evacuation system maintains a level of control over where the particles are collected and the vacuum facilitates the compression and the uniformity of the charge. The vacuum system may also cause out gassing and this situation is addressed. Referring to the cavities have an exhaust port at the rear of the cavity which is the deepest point in the cavity in relation to the face . The exhaust port leads to in an exemplary embodiment a micro channel a diffusion membrane and a vacuum line . The base assembly is fitted with seals to keep out the ambient air. The vacuum line generally leads to an additional trap selected from the group consisting of a filter a centrifugal filter a cryogenically cooled trap an absorbent and or dissolving liquid bath a semi permeable membrane a diffusion membrane or a combination thereof. The trap prevents vapors from reaching the vacuum pump. A cryogenically cooled trap removes both water vapor and organic vapors and both of these shorten the life and reduce the performance of the pump.

The exhaust port is sized small but sufficiently large that a vacuum is achieved. Entrapped air results in non uniform charges. Diffusion membrane prevents particles from the loose powder and or inkjet samples from being drawn into the vacuum line . The diffusion membrane may be contaminated to some degree after each pressing but the level of contamination is small enough to permit repeated use of the diffusion membrane . The diffusion membrane is ultimately replaced and disposed of after a significant number of cycles.

Another embodiment of the sealed apparatus employing a vacuum system is shown in . An etched silicon wafer is bonded to the back of the rigid platen . A photoresist layer of the silicon wafer is etched with micro channels that are in right angle fluid communication with the rigid platen micro channels . The orthogonal relationship reduces the escape of potentially explosive particles from the cavities . This exemplary embodiment lends itself to fabrication using the advantages of photolithography and the developed processes for MicroElectroMechanical Systems MEMS that exist for fabricating devices.

The exemplary embodiment of the apparatus illustrated in expands on the technology disclosed in . Referring to the base assembly has a rigid platen that is sealedly mounted in a base plate . The rigid platen is generally composed of a silicon on insulator SOI wafer. The rigid platen includes a face with at least one cavity etched in a first silicon layer where each cavity has an opening that opens to the face of the rigid platen . Further at least one cavity includes an exhaust port that is substantially near a deepest point of the cavity in relation to the face. The exhaust port is in fluid communication through a first micro channel located in the first silicon layer . The first micro channel is in fluid communication with a second micro channel etched in a first silicon oxide layer . The fluid communication extends through a third micro channel etched in a second silicon layer . The fluid communication further extending to the vacuum line connected to the base plate. In the illustration the channels in the oxide layer are exaggerated in scale. In practice they would only be 1 to 2 microns deep the thickness of a general oxide layer in SOI for MEMS . The micro channels are offset and have a circuitous route and this route reduces particulate explosive material from entering the vacuum pump or other areas of the base assembly .

The apparatus and methodology are particularly applicable to MEMS safety and arming devices for military ordnance including cheap and practical salvage fuzing or autodestruct features for submunitions. The apparatus could also have commercial applications in the manufacture of such devices as sophisticated automobile airbag inflation systems fire extinguisher cartridges and aircrew escape devices. Other applications in the security arena would include micro miniature and stealth destruct devices for microelectronics devices and systems and micro sized single shot power sources for surveillance systems.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

