---

title: Enterprise social networking software architecture
abstract: An enterprise-based social networking application. Events for individuals may be collected from various enterprise-based information systems automatically using adaptors that are specially tailored for particular types of information systems. Such events may then be used to populate event feeds regarding individuals in that enterprise. A filtering model for formulating event feeds identifies events by individual, event type, and event time. The filter also identifies which individuals are in which group of a participant, and identifies which groups correspond to which event types. Incoming events may then be filtered into the event feeds depending on the group to which the individual belongs. A user interface for a participant to view and edit group membership is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788942&OS=08788942&RS=08788942
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08788942
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080229
---
Computer networking technologies have enabled a wide variety of applications such as for example Web surfing e mail instant messaging and the like. One particularly promising and popular application is social networking. Social networking is conventionally internet based. Thus anyone in the public can typically have some access to the social networking application.

Social networking typically allows people to share information about themselves with others. In one implementation each social networking participant might have their own network site where they can post information about themselves. Some of this information might be available to anyone with access to the Internet based social networking application.

Social networking allows for the formulation of a tighter network of friends wherein each friend is permitted to have more information regarding the participant in the form of an event feed. Initially the participant does not have an electronic social network of friends. To establish a social friends network the participant must find other participants who are willing to become friends. The participant would then send an electronic invitation to an invitee to become the participant s friend. If the invitee accepts the invitation then the invitee would be added to the participant s network of friends.

Conventionally this friends network is reciprocal. For instance if participant B were to receive and accept a friendship invitation from participant A participant A would become part of participant B s friend network and participant B would become part of participant A s friend network.

Someone in a participant s friend network may receive more information regarding that participant in the form of news or event feeds regarding others in that network. The participant themselves generates the event feed by interfacing directly with the social networking application. For instance if the participant adds a new photograph that event might be entered into the event feed. If the participant enters a travel log entry that log entry might be entered into the event feed. There are a wide variety of other events that might be entered into the event feed but the population of the event feed is largely if now wholly in response to participant activity.

Thus social networking applications enable individuals to establish networks and keep others informed. Nevertheless effort and mutual collaboration is required in order to formulate networks. Furthermore a participant must attend to interfacing with the social networking application if the event feed regarding that participant is to be kept rich with information and up to date.

Some embodiments described herein relate to a mechanism for collecting events regarding individuals into an events pool so that the events pool may be used to formulate event feeds regarding those individuals. The event feeds may then be provided to participants in an enterprise based social networking application. The mechanism includes a collector module that uses configuration information to instantiate and support a number of adaptor modules. Each adaptor module is configured to collect events regarding individuals from a particular kind of information system. The adaptors add such events to the events pool. Accordingly at least some of the events in the events pools may be automatically populated by examining enterprise based information systems rather than by requiring that the individuals interface directly with the social networking application.

Some embodiments relate to the model for preparing to provide the event feed to a participant in the social networking application. The model involves tracking events as they are extracted from the events pool by identifying an individual an event type and a time for each event. An event feed construction module records a group membership for each of multiple groups of the participant. A filtering mechanism decides for each group which event types are to be fed to the participant when detecting events regarding individuals in that group.

Some embodiments described herein relate to a user interface for presenting the groups to the participant and allowing the participant to change group memberships. The user interface includes a representation for each group belonging to that individual. Individuals within the group are shown associated with e.g. within the representation of the corresponding group. The user interface also includes an input mechanism that permits the participant to edit the group membership.

This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with embodiments described herein an enterprise based social networking application is described. Events for individuals may be collected from various enterprise based information systems automatically using adaptors that are specially tailored for particular types of information systems. Such events may then be used to populate event feeds regarding individuals in that enterprise. A filtering model for formulating event feeds identifies events by individual event type and event time. The filter also identifies which individuals are in which group of a participant and identifies which groups correspond to which event types. Incoming events may then be filtered into the event feeds depending on the group to which the individual belongs. A user interface for a participant to view and edit group membership is also provided.

First a basic computing system will be described with respect to . Then various embodiments and uses of the enterprise based social networking application will be described with respect to .

Computing systems are now increasingly taking a wide variety of forms. Computing systems may for example be handheld devices appliances laptop computers desktop computers mainframes distributed computing systems or even devices that have not conventionally considered a computing system. In this description and in the claims the term computing system is defined broadly as including any device or system or combination thereof that includes at least one processor and a memory capable of having thereon computer executable instructions that may be executed by the processor. The memory may take any form and may depend on the nature and form of the computing system. A computing system may be distributed over a network environment and may include multiple constituent computing systems.

As illustrated in in its most basic configuration a computing system typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . The memory may be physical system memory which may be volatile non volatile or some combination of the two. The term memory may also be used herein to refer to non volatile mass storage such as physical storage media. If the computing system is distributed the processing memory and or storage capability may be distributed as well. As used herein the term module or component can refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads .

In the description that follows embodiments are described with reference to acts that are performed by one or more computing systems. If such acts are implemented in software one or more processors of the associated computing system that performs the act direct the operation of the computing system in response to having executed computer executable instructions. An example of such an operation involves the manipulation of data. The computer executable instructions and the manipulated data may be stored in the memory of the computing system .

Computing system may also contain communication channels that allow the computing system to communicate with other message processors over for example network . Communication channels are examples of communications media. Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as wired networks and direct wired connections and wireless media such as acoustic radio infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communications media.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise physical storage and or memory media such as RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described herein. Rather the specific features and acts described herein are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The enterprise includes individuals A through H that belong to the enterprise and engage in activities within the enterprise. There are 8 such individuals A through H shown although a typically enterprise might typically have many more individuals as represented by the ellipses . The individuals might collectively be referred to as individuals . As an example in a corporate environment the individuals may be employees of the corporation. As these individuals operate within the enterprise information regarding these individuals is accumulated by the enterprise. Such information is represented by individual information in .

The enterprise includes a social networking application . The social networking application may be run on a computing system as shown as described with respect to . Such a computing system may be a single computing system or may be distributed. One of the functions of the social networking application is to provide event feeds A through F to participants A through F. Although five participants A through E are shown in the ellipses F is used to represent that the social networking application may have any number one or more of participants receiving event feeds. The participants A through F might collectively be referred to as participants .

The social networking application may be somewhat asymmetric. In order to understand how this description will now describe some of the characteristics of the individuals as compared to the participants . The individuals are people operating either external to or within the context of the enterprise . The individuals may but need not interface and interact with the social networking application . For instance perhaps individuals C D and E are also participants but individuals A B F G and H are not. Regardless the enterprise accumulates information regarding the individuals .

In this description and in the claims the term topic individual will be used frequently. That term is used to describe an individual regarding which information or events may be regarding. Accordingly each event will have a topic individual that is the subject of the event. For instance the social networking application tracks events for various topic individuals . Such events might include anything that a participant might find interesting. Examples of events might be that the topic individual has added a picture to a profile a blog or travel entry for the topic individual that the topic individual has stepped out for lunch but will return at 1 00 pm that the topic individual has a birthday coming up that the topic individual has received a promotion and so forth.

The participants on the other hand do interface with the social networking application . The participants each register with the social networking application and receive an event feed regarding particular topic individuals. For instance participant A might receive event feeds for individuals A F and G participant B might receive event feeds for individuals B C and F and so forth. The social networking application keeps track of which topic individuals each participant is to receive an event feed for. In one embodiment for each participant the social networking application categorizes the topic individuals into groups where the event types for each group differs depending on the group in which a topic individual appears.

Although the individuals are each illustrated as being within the enterprise it is possible that one or more of the individuals may not be part of the enterprise at all. Nevertheless the information regarding the topic individuals may be much richer if the individual is a member of the enterprise and engage in enterprise processes. Furthermore although the participants are illustrated as being within the enterprise it is possible that one or more participants may be external to the enterprise . Nevertheless when all individuals and participants are within a common sphere of trust the conveyance of information regarding activities engaged in within that sphere of trust may be much richer and shared with greater confidence.

Accordingly the social networking application serves as an information broker that provides a centralized point where participants can obtain information regarding other individuals in the enterprise.

The illustrated data collection component will now be described in further detail The data collection component includes one or more collector modules. One collector module A is illustrated although there may be others as represented by the horizontal ellipses B. Each collector module serves as a container for one or more adaptors. In other words the container A serves as an execution environment for the adaptors providing information as needed to the various adaptors and controlling when the adaptors start and stop. In order improve timeliness in delivering fresh events regarding topic individuals each adaptor might run on a separate thread.

Each adaptor is configured to extract events regarding topic individuals from a distinct kind of information system also referred to herein as an information source . In a typical enterprise as an individual engages in normal enterprise activity various information may be accumulated regarding that individual s activity. Such information is rarely accumulated in any single information system of any single type. Rather more typically there may be information regarding topic individuals in various information systems. The use of adaptors permits for event extraction across various types of information systems where each adaptor is configured to extract events from a particular kind of information system.

For instance adaptor A is configured to extract events regarding topic individuals from information system A which is a particular type of information system. Adaptor B is configured to extract events regarding topic individuals from information system B and so forth for the remainder of adaptors C through E and information systems C through E. Likewise other adaptors represented by horizontal ellipses F may be used to extract events from yet other information systems F. Although the adaptors may each be different types of adaptors to extract events from different information systems that need not always be the case. For example two or more of the adaptors may be the same type of adaptor. Instantiating multiple adaptors for the same information system type might be helpful in order to obtain events in a timely manner and or perhaps to obtain events for distributed information systems.

The information systems A through F referred to collectively as information systems might include a wide variety of different types. The principles described herein are not limited to the type of information system. Nevertheless to illustrate a particular example various types will now be described.

One information system might be for example an administrative human resource system. That system might include when an individual was hired from which information an adaptor might determine whether or not a hiring anniversary is approaching. That system might also include a birthday for topic individuals when there is a status change e.g. promotion or other title change and may also include information regarding the placement of the topic individuals within the organizational context of the enterprise.

Another information system might be an enterprise directory and general attribute repository system such as for example ACTIVE DIRECTORY . Such a system might also include titles office numbers organization context and so forth of various topic individuals.

Yet another information system might be a user profile site into which the topic individual may enter information about himself or herself. In that profile site one might declare various attributes about oneself e.g. special interests share files upload photographs and so forth.

Another information system might be an instant messaging status which includes a status indicator that indicates information regarding the topic individuals and may include entries made by a topic individual regarding availability e.g. I will be at a client until 4 30 pm. then working from home thereafter .

Other information systems might include enterprise calendar systems such as Exchange document management systems financial systems and so forth. The types of information systems has no limit and may include information systems that are now existing or yet to be developed. Once a new information system is encountered the information system may be incorporated into the data collection module by authoring an appropriate adaptor.

To facilitate the effective authoring and generation of additional adaptors as new information systems come into being the adaptors may be constructed as a plug in component with a pre constructed framework for the adaptors already preexisting. For instance each adaptor includes common services that may be part of that adaptor framework. Then in order to introduce a proper adaptor for a particular information system only the custom functions used to interface with the information system would need to be authored.

Examples of common services include 1 the procedures for connecting with the events pool and placing an event into the events pool 2 the procedures for discovering the identity of the topic individuals for which events are desired 3 logging functionality 4 an Application Programming Interface API with the collector so that collector can start and stop the adaptor 5 state persistence 6 other system standard interactions with the system and the like. For instance each of the adaptors A through E might include this common functionality .

Each adaptor A through E also includes specific functions A through E. These specific functions include the logic used to determine the types of queries to be made to the information system and includes the knowledge of the appropriate Application Program Interface API to use to property interface with the corresponding information system.

In the collector module A contains five illustrated adaptors A through E amongst potentially and possible less as represented by the horizontal ellipses F. Although one collector module may suffice it may be advantageous in some circumstances to have more than one collector module. For instance multiple collector modules may be used in order to extract events from the various information systems in a more timely manner. Also multiple collector modules may be used to accommodate various network topology and expanded geographical distributions.

The configuration data directs the collector module A in operation. For instance the configuration data may define which adaptor modules e.g. adaptor modules A through F the collector module A is to instantiate and support. Each adaptor may be configured to respond to the collector s instruction to gather events. The configuration data may also define when the adaptors are to run. The collector module A may respond to this configuration data to cause the adaptors to be started and stopped at the appropriate moments. In one embodiment the adaptors are run on periodic time intervals where those time intervals may differ depending on the information system.

Once the adaptors retrieve events those events are provided into an events pool . In one embodiment the events pool is a database. The events pool of is illustrated as including six events A through G. In actual implementation the events pool may include thousands and even millions of events. In a large enterprise the events pool might even include billions of events. Nevertheless in order to avoid unnecessarily complicating the example only six events A through G are illustrated.

The events may be of different types. To symbolize this principle each event illustrated within the events pool is shown as being a shape. For instance event A is shown as a triangle to illustrate that this event is of one particular type. Event B is shown as a square to illustrate that this event is of another particular type which happens to be the same type as event D which is also illustrated as a square. Event C is shown as a circle to illustrate that this event is of yet another particular type which happens to be the same type as event E which is also illustrated as a circle. The event F is illustrated as a parallelogram to illustrate that this event may be of yet another type.

The topic individual field identifies the topic individual for the event. For instance in the environment of the topic individual field might identify which topic individual the event is about.

The event time field identifies a time that the event occurred. The event time field may be used for sorting the order of the event in the event feed.

The event is also shown as including custom fields A B amongst potentially others as represented by the ellipses C. Such custom fields may include any information that is appropriate given the specific type of events. For instance for a manager change event a custom field might include the name of the manager another might be the title of the manager and so forth. For a document change event the custom field might identify the document and its location and perhaps describe the nature of the change.

In one embodiment the events pool may be configured to perhaps discard events after a certain time in order to balance event storage capability with the security of keeping events. For instance the events pool might keep events for 30 days or some other configurable time period. An events garbage collector might operate in the background to discard older events as they exceed the recycle time. In one embodiment certain types of events may be kept for different periods of time. For example birthday event types might be discarded after a shorter lifetime than document change notifications. Accordingly the event retention policy may be configured as deemed appropriate.

As will be described in greater detail below the event feed presentation component extracts events from the events pool in order to present an event feed regarding particular topic individuals to the appropriate participant. The event feed presentation component uses the events pool in order to populate the event feed. Accordingly if the topic individuals were to change for a particular participant and or if the type of event to be included in the event feed were to change that change would be very quickly reflected in the event feed. After all all of the events regarding all possible topic individuals may be included within the events pool . Thus there would be little lag in repopulating the events pool. Rather the only lag in presenting the new event feed to the participant would be in extracting the correct events from the events pool. Accordingly participants may quickly see how a filtering change would change the event feed and may thus quickly refine the filtering configuration that the participant would like to see.

The event feed generation and presentation component includes an event feeder component and a user interface . The event feeder component determines for any given participant which topic individuals the participant is interested in and which event types the participant is interested in for each topic individual. The event feeder component then generates the appropriate event feed and provides the event feed to the user interface for presentation to the participant. The event feeder component may be performing this function for a larger number of participants each participant having there own user interface .

The event feeder component includes an event filtering and rule management component and a user relation management component . The user relation management component designates which topic individuals are in which group for any given participant. illustrates an example of a user relation between a single participant three groups and topic individuals contained within each group.

In the example of user management data regarding participant is shown. The user relation management component may include such user relation data for each participant in the social networking application. However to keep the example straightforward only user relation data for one participant is shown. The participant is shown as including three groupings of topic individuals and . Group includes topic individuals and . As an example perhaps group includes the participant s designated friends at work. Group includes topic individuals and . As an example perhaps group includes the participant s designated co workers. Note that topic individuals may appear in more than one group. For instance topic individual appears in both groups and . Group includes topic individuals and . Once again a topic individual appears in two groups and . As an example the group may represent other individuals of interest.

The horizontal ellipses represents that there may be more or less that the three illustrated groups. For example there may be another group that includes topic individuals that report directly to the participant . In one embodiment the event feed rules for each topic individuals in any given group are the same. In other words it is the group into which the topic individual is represented that governs the types of events that are to be included in the event feed regarding that topic individual that is reported to the participant .

The user relation management component may optionally construct a default user relation for a given participant. This may be accomplished by consulting the same information systems that the adaptors extract events from. illustrates a flowchart of a method for formulating a default membership in the group of a participant.

First the user relation management component accesses directly or indirectly one or more enterprise information systems act . Then one or more individuals are selected to be included within a particular group based on the accessed information act . Finally the default grouping for the participant is formulated that includes the selected topic individuals act .

As an example the user relation management component may evaluate one or more information systems to identify an organizational context for the participant. The user relation management may then automatically add any individuals that work in the same technical group as the participant to the participant s co workers group. The user relation management component may also examine the communication history e mail and instant messaging perhaps to see who the participant has been communicating with in the past. The user relation management component may then automatically add those individuals to the participant s friends at work group.

This formulation of a default network differs substantially from the current model in social networking that requires mutual collaboration in order for any topic individual to be added to a participant s network. Conventionally in order to add an individual to a friends network an invitation is first sent by the participant and the recipient then accepts the invitation. They are then both mutually added to each other s network. This model also differs in at least two other significant ways. First a topic individual can be added to a participant s network without the participant being added to the topic individual s network. Second the participant has the option of categorizing topic individuals in more than one group.

The user relation management component may also adjust this user relation for a participant when a participant removes or adds a topic individual to a particular group. Once again this may be performed unilaterally by the participant without the topic individual accepting an invitation to join the group. The participant may be able to view their current user relations and also make adjustments through the user interface .

In one embodiment the user relation management component may suggest changes in the user relations for a particular participant. For instance upon detecting that a participant is communicating much more with a particular individual the system may suggest adding that individual to a friends at work group. Upon detecting a title change the system might suggest adding others within a new organizational context to a co workers group.

In one embodiment the user relation management component may impose policy rules regarding user relations. For instance perhaps a request to add a particular topic individual to a particular group may be rejected as improper. For instance perhaps a particular participant has expressed an interest in keeping his birthday a completely private matter and not to be shared. The user relation management component may make adjustments to the event types reported regarding that topic individual.

The event filtering and rules management defines which event types are to be included in event feeds for topic individuals in which groups for any given participant. For instance referring to for topic individuals and included within group perhaps only a certain event type is reported in the event feed e.g. birthday events hiring anniversary events or the like . For any topic individuals within group perhaps a different subset of event types may be reported for those individuals. Finally for any individual within groups perhaps a yet different subset of event types are reported in event feeds for those individuals in that group.

In one embodiment if a topic individual is in more than one group the superset of all the event types for any group that the topic individual is in may be reported in the event feed. For instance suppose group corresponds to event types A B and C and group corresponds to event types C D and E. The participant would be reported regarding event types A B C D and E for topic individual who appears in both groups and .

Events are tracked regarding a particular topic individual by identifying a topic individual an event type and a time for each event act . For instance the event feeder component may monitor the various events within the events pool for those events that correspond to a topic individual and event type for which the event feeder is to provide in an event feed.

In addition group memberships for multiple groups for the participant are monitored act . As mentioned previously this monitoring may be accomplished by the user relation management component and was described using the user relation of as an example. The acts and are shown in parallel to emphasize that there is no timing relationship between these two acts. The event feeder component then decides for each of the groups which event types are to be fed to the participant act . The method may be performed for each possible participant in the social networking application.

Specifically for any given participant it is then determined whether the topic individual is within a given group for a particular participant decision block . In making this determination the specific groups of the participant are identified and it is determined which groups if any the topic individual belongs to for that participant. If the topic individual is not in any of the groups No in decision block the event will not be included within the event feed for that participant act .

If the topic individual is in at least one of the groups of the participant Yes in decision block it is then determined whether the event type of the event corresponds to the group into which the topic individual is placed decision block . For instance referring to suppose that group corresponds to event types A B and C. If the event is regarding topic individual but is of event type D the event will not be included in the event feed regarding topic individual provided to participant . On the other hand if the event is of event type C the event will be included in the event feed regarding topic individual provided to participant .

If the event type is not the type to be reported No in decision block the event is not included in the event feed act . If the event type is of the type to be reported Yes in decision block the event is provided in the event feed act . There may be a particular format in which to present the event in the event feed. The event feeder component extracts a copy of the event from the events pool and presents the event in the correct format in the event feed provided to the participant.

Accordingly a mechanism for extracting events from an events pool and providing an associated event feed to a participant is described. Referring to the last remaining component to describe is the user interface . In one example embodiment the user interface is provided as a Web interface.

The example user interface shows pictures of each of the topic individuals categorized by group. In this example the groups are Friends at Work Co workers and Other People of Interest. The pictures or other representations of Friends at Work are illustrated in section of the user interface and are relatively large. The pictures of Co workers are moderately sized and included in section of the user interface . The pictures of Other People of Interest are smallest of all and included in section of the user interface . The differing size of the pictures for different groups is to 1 distinguish one group from another and 2 emphasize an estimation of the importance of event feeds for topic individuals in that group.

In order to change a topic individual from one group to another the picture or other representation for that individual may simply be dragged and dropped into another group. Upon selection of the Done control the user relations management component of may be updated thereby causing a quick change in the event feed provided to the participant.

The remove control may be used to remove a topic individual from a group. A picture of a topic individual might be for example dragged and dropped onto the remove control . The add a person control permits the user to select an individual from a group of available individuals. The add a person control might also allow the participant to view suggested additions to one or more of the participant s groups.

In this example the identity of which events types drop off as the slider is moved down may be the result of expectation regarding what event types are important for topic individuals in that category. For instance birthdays may be a very important event type for Friends at Work but less so for Co workers and perhaps not important at all for Other People of Interest. Accordingly as the slider is moved down the Birthday event type would disappear sooner for the Co worker group as compared to the Friends at Work group.

The portion of the Other People of Interest shows another way of specifying event types for a particular group. Each event type now corresponds to a checkbox. In this example a Title Change event corresponds to check box a Communicator note change event corresponds to check box a SharePoint document add even corresponds to check box a SharePoint Wiki change event corresponds to check box a Birthday event corresponds to check box a Manager change event corresponds to check box a SharePoint blog post corresponds to check box a SharePoint document change event corresponds to check box a Service anniversary event corresponds to check box . A Status change event corresponds to check box . This allows the participant to select specifically what event types are to be received for event feeds for topic individuals in a particular group. The status indicator allows the participant to enter a status of the participant.

Accordingly the principles described herein provide for a powerful mechanism for social networking in which event feeds regarding topic individuals may be extracted from disparate locations for consolidated and convenient presentation to the user.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

