---

title: Method for chromatographic finger printing and standardization of single medicines and formulations
abstract: The present invention provides a method for the chromatographic fingerprinting, chemical and therapeutic standardization, bar-coding of the fingerprints and preparation of a data base for Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) machines and applications of medicines in general and traditional medicines in particular; this invention includes a software based instrumental method and a novel method of fingerprinting and standardization is proposed for the above purpose and the said method for the chromatographic finger printing which facilitates to correlate the traditional therapeutic standardization methods with the chemical properties of the medicines and humors and provides a rational basis to understand the methods used for the said purpose.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07662638&OS=07662638&RS=07662638
owner: Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
number: 07662638
owner_city: New Delhi
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20081117
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. non provisional application Ser. No. 11 217 025 filed Aug. 31 2005 now abandoned which is a divisional of and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. non provisional application Ser. No. 09 779 377 filed Feb. 8 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 144 740.

The present invention relates to a novel method of chromatographic finger printing useful for chemical and therapeutic standardization. More particularly the present invention relates to chromatographic fingerprinting of organic and organo metallic molecules which have UV Visible radiation absorptive property present in a plant animal or any other source capable of being used as a single or formulated medicine. The invention facilitates bar coding of one or many constituents present in the finger print images. It also facilitate commercial utilization of the fingerprint database having all the information about the medicines development and using ERP Enterprise Resource Planning and CRM Customer Relationship Management net work applications like vending machines etc.

The present invention employs a novel method of the utilization of the Contour and 3D chromatograms of an herbal medicine and formulation developed under standardized experimental chemical and instrumental conditions proposed as a chromatographic finger print of the medicines.

In addition the present invention relates to a computer based method for the analysis of such chromatograms. This novel method is very much used for an authentic identification of the chemical constituents of the single medicines and formulations.

The ancient man after many years of evolution started thinking about him and tried to understand the nature. He started living under a cover the caves and in groups. The process of thought has encouraged him to understand the nature and its inter action with the living beings. He started using the naturally available flora and fauna for his daily needs in which he used the plant and animal material for his dietary and health needs.

Under this process he explored the properties of various components in the world like geological astral and medicinal properties of various biological and plant materials. This started happening from the Stone Age on words. He went on discovering standardizing and using naturally available materials for his day to day living.

This took place in many places of the earth parallel in different parts of the world and it developed more in places where civilization has developed more based on the intellectuality. Therefore the history of medicine has a direct relation with the history of civilization.

The evidences of an well organized system of medicine in India were traced in Harappa and Mohanzadaro History of Medicine in India Dr Priya Vrit Sharma Indian National Science Academy New Delhi . In the Indus valley civilization a system of medicine has prevailed in which drugs of vegetable animal and mineral origin were used. The Osadhisukta of the Rigveda is the oldest document of the knowledge about plants and herbal medicines. Medicine in India owes much to the traditional knowledge of Atharvaveda of which Ayurveda is said as an Upaveda. A large number of disease syndrome relationships were defined and described by Charaka and Susruta in their medical treatises The Samhitas . The treatment was also prescribed in a systematic manner and on rational basis.

On the other hand it was realized that the biological phenomena could not be universally explained by mechanical means as each individual varies in his basic constitution i.e. Prakruthi that must be kept in mind while prescribing diet or drug to the patient. The binary concept like Prakriti Purusha Yin Yang Normal Abnormal was seen in almost all philosophies.

Diseases are manifestations of humoral imbalance which have to be tackled comprehensively on the psychosomatic basis. Health accordingly is equilibrium maintained on physical mental and spiritual levels. Thus the Tri dimensional definition of health as propounded by Susrtuta is the ideal one which has been reflected in the definition adopted by WHO in modern times.

After going through the ancient literature it was found that the medicines were standardized using their physico chemical properties of the materials. The color texture odor and taste were used as a measure of the efficacy of any medicine. Even the shape of the medicines was used to understand the medicinal properties of the medicines. A summary of different philosophies and various factors used in the therapy is given in Tables 1 6 which are appearing in the later part of the description. accompanying the specification gives a detailed information on the individual philosophies and concepts of Indian Ayurveda and Chinese Traditional medicines Medicine in China by H. M. Sais and A hand book of Chinese Healing Herbs by Daniel Reid Simon Schuster in particular and other philosophies in general. The therapeutic efficacy of a medicine ultimately depends on the chemical constituents present in the medicines under use and it is the chemical properties of the constituents that are going to bring a required change in the chemical constitution of the living animal.

Many Ayurvedic one kind of Indian system of medicine scholars have defined and classified the medicines based on color and their therapeutic efficacy. A brief summary is given in Table 7 which appears in the later part of the description. Thus the physico chemical properties of the materials and man is taken in to consideration to understand the properties of them and use for the therapy to achieve required therapeutic results. Tables 8 9 which are appearing in the later part of the description gives the information about how the physical properties color and chemical properties taste are used for understanding the therapeutic efficacy of medicines and their influence on the physiology of the human body. One part of the present work also uses the same methodology but with instruments.

In general the constituent molecules present in the drugs and foods can be broadly classified in to three categories as polar medium polar and the non polar molecules. The total polarity of the molecule depends on the total Electrophilic and Nucleophilic moieties attached to the molecule along with the unsaturation of the molecules by their conjugation. The living human body animal body and plants will also contain the same type of molecules wherein different polar molecules will carry out different functions. Diseases were cured using the medicines of same polarity as that of the disease causing chemical constituents i.e. the medicines which can create the disorder can cure the same disorder as said by Dr Hanemann.

WHO has defined herbal medicine as a Finished labeled medicinal products that contain as active ingredients aerial or underground parts of plants or other plant material or combinations thereof whether in the crude state or as plant preparations. Plant material includes juices gums fatty oils essential oils and any other substances of this nature. Herbal medicines may contain excipients in addition to the active ingredients. Medicines containing plant material combined with chemically defined active substances including chemically defined isolated constituents of plants is not considered to be herbal medicines. Exceptionally in some countries herbal medicines may also contain by tradition natural organic or inorganic active ingredients which are not of plant origin .

The objective of these guidelines therefore is to define basic criteria for the evaluation of quality safety and efficacy of herbal medicines and thereby to assist national regulatory authorities scientific organizations and manufacturers to undertake an assessment of the documentation submission dossiers in respect of such products . As a general rule in this assessment traditional experience means that long term use as well as the medical historical and ethnological background of those products shall be taken into account. The definition of long term use may vary according to the country but should be at least several decades. Therefore the assessment should take into account a description in the medical pharmaceutical literature or similar sources or a documentation of knowledge on the application of an herbal medicine without a clearly defined time limitation. Marketing authorizations of similar products should also be taken into account. As per the report the assessment of quality should be done for the following parameters.

WHO guidelines were given for the finished product for which the assessment of efficacy activity evidence required to support indications and combination products. Many herbal remedies consist of a combination of several active ingredients and as experience of the use of traditional remedies is often based on combination products assessment should differentiate between old and new combination products. Identical requirements for the assessment of old and new combinations would result in inappropriate assessment of certain traditional medicines. In the case of traditionally used combination products the documentation of traditional uses such as classical texts of Ayurveda Traditional Chinese medicine Unani and Siddha and experience may serve as evidence of efficacy.

An explanation of new combination of well known substances including effective dose ranges and compatibility should be required in addition to the documentation of traditional knowledge of each single ingredient. Each active ingredient must contribute to the efficacy of the medicine. Clinical studies may be required to justify the efficacy of a new ingredient and its positive effect on the total combination.

In the report it was also mentioned that the manufacturing procedure and formula including the amount of excipients should be described in detail. A finished product specification should be defined. A method of identification and where possible quantification of the plant material in the finished product should also be defined. If the identification of an active principle is not possible it should be sufficient to identify a characteristic substance or mixture of substances e.g. chromatographic fingerprint to ensure consistent quality of the product. The finished product should comply with general requirements for particular dosage forms.

For imported finished products confirmation of the regulatory status in the country of origin should be provided. The WHO Certification Scheme on the quality of pharmaceutical products moving in international commerce should be applied. More details about stability assessment of safety and utilization were given in the said WHO report.

The effective regulation of the quality of herbal medicines moving in international commerce also requires close liaison between national institutions that are able to keep under regular review all aspects of production and use of herbal medicines. Also to conduct or sponsor evaluative studies of their efficacy toxicity safety acceptability cost and relative value are compared with other drugs used in modern medicine.

Hence as mentioned above there is a need for an authentic method of quality control as proposed in this work. It is clearly mentioned that there is a need of a method for all the above purposes. The proposed analytical will give answers for almost all of the needs described above.

Before explaining the method of the invention of standardization the existing methods of standardization chemical and therapeutic and chromatographic finger printing are discussed below.

The great sage Charaka explained in his Charaka Samhita that The understanding of the totality of an entity does not arise from a fragmentary knowledge of it Charaka Samhita VI. 4.5 . This makes it clear that standardization and therapeutic efficacy of any medicine for which all the constituents are not taken into consideration is futile.

The qualitative and quantitative profile of a herbal medicine will vary due to many geological ecological factors time of collection place of collection age of collection and weather conditions at the time of collection and so on.

Traditional herbalists used to select a medicine based on the organoleptic methods available at that time like color texture smell and taste by which they used to assess the chemical and therapeutic efficacy of a medicine.

These methods involve intrinsic knowledge and understanding of the inter and intra therapeutic interactions of the medicines and body constituents to cure diseases. This knowledge varies from individual to individual and depends on the individual skill and ability. Practically it will be difficult to provide a rational justification for any mechanism to explain using this method. Hence modern science uses instruments for various purposes which eliminates the individual factors and facilitates reproducibility in data and information.

The therapeutic property of any food or drug will depend on its chemical and physical status. Thus understanding the chemical constituents using their physico chemical properties will help to understand the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine.

The physico chemical properties of the medicines play a major role on the therapeutic activity of the medicine. These properties of molecules can be studied using two parameters the polarity and conjugative properties. Polarity is a resultant electrochemical property due to different electron donating nucleophilic and electron accepting electrophilic moieties attached to the molecules along with the unsaturated double and triple bonds present in it. They will influence the rate of activity or reactivity of a molecule in chemical and biochemical reactions. A thorough estimation of the total polarity of the molecule will give the efficacy of a single or group of molecules as to how active they are chemically and therapeutically. Hence any standardization which assesses the above properties will be useful to know their activity.

Along with the polarity which relates mostly to the Electro chemical property of the molecules the physical structure of the molecule also play an important role in the reactivity of the molecules. The more the number of active sites attached to the molecules the more reactive they will be. The more the molecule is conjugated having alternative double bond and triple bonds the more it will be reactive chemically and so therapeutically.

The second parameter that influences the activity of the molecule is the spatial arrangement of atoms in the same molecule which differs structurally. Due to this reason the isomeric geometric and chiral molecules play an important role in the biological activity. This stereo selective nature makes the molecules highly selective in their activity in the body where in a large number of biochemical pathways will be working parallel without cross interactions and interference s. Hence the chemistry of chiral drugs has become very important. In other terms no key chiral molecule will open a different lock receptor .

Plants usually prepare a plurality combinatorial library of molecules having the same basic mother structures and varying in the functional groups attached to it. For example flavones aurones and chalcones of flavoniods as they exist in nature and a single plant having such set of molecules will act like a multi drug.

Usually molecules having unsaturation and more conjugation absorbs the electromagnetic radiation in the UV Visible radiation 200 800 nm . When the compounds interact with radiation they absorb at a specific wavelength absorbance maxima based on their chemical conjugative and structural properties. It is called the characteristic wavelength. A molecule can have more than one absorbance maxima based on its structural and functional properties. When a compound absorbs a particular color from the wholesome of the white light it will express the resultant color of the other colors unabsorbed. Thus the materials will express different colors based on their chemical constituents absorbing various colors from white light and showing that their color is due to the various functional groups attached to it. Table No 10 which appears later part of the description explains the same . The same is taken as a measure of the chemical and physical properties of the molecules in spectrophotometry.

For example the red colored medicines absorbs at 500 600 nm range. Thus all the red colored medicines will have a peak in this wavelength range having specific structure and activity. Hence the color of the medicines is being used as a measure of its therapeutic and chemical efficacy of the medicines. In ancient times medicines were classified therapeutically based on the color. The present method proves the same. The which accompanying the specification depicts relation of colors with humors shows the effect of different colors on different diseases.

In the modern chemical analysis methods determination of the percentage of active principles viz. alkaloids flavonoids enzymes vitamins essential oils fats carbohydrates proteins ash acid insoluble ash and crude fiber is done by various analytical instruments. Some examples shown below explain how standardization is done in modern science.

It is reported WWW Shilajit Fulvic acid etc .html that one of the very important medicines used in Indian System of medicine Shilajit is reported to have many compounds along with fulvic acids and is claimed to be active principle. As this medicine from bituminous source is collected from earth stored for many years it can be seen that the more it is in stored in the earth the more it will be therapeutically active. Nevertheless in the entire globe the geological variations may not produce same molecules in all samples collected from different parts of the world. Another factor that influences the chemistry of these drugs is the purification process which also needs to be standardized.

It is reported WWW Herbology.html that mostly standardization is done for the individual key components which have been empirically and scientifically proven to be most advantageous for the human system. So usually standardization is done for certain molecules out of all present which are found to have activity. However the synergistic effect of other compounds present in the medicine making the total profile of the medicine should be taken into consideration for its efficacy.

It is reported WWW Tribulus Terrestrius puncture vine.html that the alcoholic extract of the fruits of Tribulus Terrestrius shows antiurolithiatic activity. In addition to this the extract also shows a significant diuretic activity. The alkaloid Harman has been reported from the herb and Harmine from the seeds. The plant contains saponins which on hydrolysis yield steriodal sapogenins. Many molecules of flavonoid in nature are reported in which the active principle is found saponins. The analytical report is given for the heavy metal analysis and total saponins content 20 w w 

It is reported WWW Charak com. Quality control page html that Human life is a synergy of Mental Physical and Spiritual components which are related to the Indian Philosophy of Ayurveda where Pitta Kapha and Vata are considered as the basis for the total health of human beings. More details of standardization are given in the description of traditional methods of therapeutic standardization.

It is reported WWW Standardized Herbal Extracts A herbalists Perspective s Dr. Micheal Tierra L. Ac.O.M.D html that due to European Guaranteed Potency Law it becomes compulsory to standardize herbal medicines. The meaning of herbal standardization is defined as quantification of an active constituent or marker extract where in the activity is attributed to be the most.

It is explained Frank R Stermitz et al PAINS Feb. 15 200 Vol 97 No 4 pp 1433 1437 that in the plant the antimicrobial property of the extract is due to the presence of 5 Hydroxy Hydnocarpin the berberin acting as anti microbial and without which it will not. Hence the synergistic effect of the entire constituents should be taken into consideration while dealing with an herbal medicine but not only an active constituent. WHO in its Regional Publication Dr Ranjit Roy Choudary Herbal Medicine for Human Health Searo no 20 clearly mentioned what standardization is and what the member countries should do for the better use of its medicines by the people.

The role of acidity and alkalinity can be understood by carefully understanding the extraction process of constituents from the medicines at different pH values of the extraction solvents. This helps to understand the drug release mechanism in the intestine from the medicine consumed by the persons having different intestinal pH. The role of acidity and alkalinity was studied and understood carefully in understanding the therapeutic efficacy of a medicines. Acidity and alkalinity of organic and inorganic molecules are studied thoroughly to know their properties as shown in Table 11 which appear later part of the specification. Of acidity and alkalinity shows the role of acidity and alkalinity on health Health in Hands by Devendra Vora Navaneet publications India Ltd .

It is reported WWW Chewing.Html that in a study it was observed that people with acidic systems absorb more pollution than people who had established proper blood alkalinity. Acid alkaline pH balance is important for normal cell function. More details were given in the article. Hence the study of the acidity or alkalinity organic or inorganic in terms of polarity will give the information of the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines. Hence the present method which can do this job will be of much use to know the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines. Using this proposed method the acidity and alkalinity can be established for the therapeutic standardization of medicines.

References made above will explain the conventional and reported methods of standardization wherein the individual constituents are isolated at a preparative scale and compared qualitatively and quantitatively with the same compound present in the sample medicine under study.

In one of the reports Pharmaceutical grade Saw Palmetto Khwaja et al U.S. Pat. No. 6 039 950 it was reported that the different individual fractions of ethanolic extract of Saw Palmetto were studied for their bioactivity by measuring the determination of IC 50 in an androgen receptor binding inhibition assay. Measurement of total fatty acid assay of whole extract and individual fractions were discussed. The fractions containing linolic acid ethyl ester and lauric acid ethyl ester were identified. The activity was calculated for each of the fraction for which androgen receptor binding inhibition has been assayed compared to the total bioactivitty of the sample. The molecular weight and amount of the individual fatty acids were identified and incorporated in to the calculation of bioactivity. The total bioactivity of the extract was calculated comparing to the total percent activity of linolic and lauric acid ethyl ester fractions.

In the traditional medicine standardization the total profile should be taken into consideration for the therapeutic efficacy of the herbal medicine. Hence in the present computer based instrumental method the total properties of all the constituents are taken into consideration as suggested in traditional concepts world over. The fingerprints of the medicines were proposed as a visual tool and proof for many purposes of dealing with medicines particularly traditional. Before discussing the method of the invention the existing method of analytical method is given below.

Improvement and use of modern analytical methods and instrumentation have definitely led to excellence in quality control methods of medicines. Improvement in analysis has led to more precise harvesting of many herbs as explained above and helped to prepare standardized extracts.

Although there are traditional methods of identification of medicinal plants like organoleptic microscopic and physical none of them gives an authentic identification as given by a fingerprint of the plant material as far as the chemical profile is concerned.

Hence it is proposed that the Chromatographic Fingerprint is much useful for quality control of medicinal plants instead of other organoleptic and microscopic studies. Since ultimately it is the chemical constituents that are largely going to participate in the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine along with other properties of the herbal medicines the analytical data of the chemical constituents should be able to provide the authentic efficacy of the medicine. It is like fingerprint of an individual gives the identity of him.

Till now Thin Layer Chromatography TLC High Performance Thin Layer Chromatography HPTLC and High Pressure Performance Liquid Chromatography are the methods commonly used for the analysis of any organic or organometallic compounds and finger printing. But all the methods have some merits and demerits for an authentic analysis of medicines. The enclosed Table 12 appearing later part of the description compare various commonly existing methods of analysis provide a general idea of the merits and demerits of them.

The commercial use of a Chromatographic fingerprint on the label of a commercial product is known such as the Daily Health Capsules distributed by the Himalaya Drug Co. of Bangalore India. Except for setting forth the assay of the constituents no more information is given on the product label as to the finger print.

After observing the above Table it is found that the most suitable technique available for the analysis of a mixture of compounds is Chromatography which gives the profile of the mixture after the separation and identification with a suitable detector.

Out of the different types of chromatographic techniques available the best suitable is High pressure liquid chromatography HPLC . Although thin layer chromatography was used till recent times advancements brought out in the equipment and separation columns of HPLC has revolutionized the analytical field of chromatography.

Most of the pharmaceutical analysis was reported in the form of a chromatogram with the peaks due to molecules eluted by a mobile phase mostly reported in the official methods and pharmacopoeias. The constituents are analyzed after eluting on a HPLC separation column detected by using any suitable detectors for analysis.

Usually the chromatographic analysis is done using a reference standard internal or external . Without a standard reference material the analysis has no meaning because the peak of the chromatogram does not provide any kind of chemical properties of the compound eluted. Hence the confirmation of the qualitative and quantitative properties spectral or chemical of the components are unclear.

In the qualitative and quantitative analysis of medicines drugs Single or Formulation the emphasis is given mainly on the spectral and chemical properties of the components eluted after analyzing the sample. The analysis is done based on the influence of Electro magnetic radiation on the analytes say the UV Visible radiation and their response to it. In the existing method of chromatography the analytical report i.e. the chromatogram is not giving any of the chemical properties like polarity and UV Visible absorptive properties of the constituents. The chromatogram is not able to show the presence of the molecules which does not absorb at that wave length or have a different Absorbance maxima other than the set wavelength say 225 or 254 nm . If the sample is 100 pure and if it is a known molecule then the analysis at a fixed wavelength is acceptable but it is highly impractical in the case of medicines where in more than one active molecule are present. Some examples shown at single wavelength are given in where in the chromatograms at various wavelengths are given. None of the single chromatogram is able to provide complete information about the chemical properties of the constituents present in the medicine particularly in traditional medicines where more than one active principle may be existing. When the chromatograms and the fingerprints are compared the utility of the fingerprints can be under stood.

Hence any chromatogram presented at a specific wavelength is not able to provide the complete chemical profile of the ingredients present in a single medicine and a formulation. So the chromatogram is partial in its report and is not acceptable. Any analytical method which is not giving complete information of the analysis is not scientifically acceptable.

In the analysis of herbal medicines where different types of molecules are present having different spectral properties The absorbance maxima the chromatogram at a fixed single wavelength will not be a meaningful analytical report or the chromatogram.

In the use of herbal medicines the medicine as a whole is used with some standard therapeutic conditions prescribed in the ancient literature and scripts. Hence the concept of searching for an active ingredient is said to be incomplete because it is the total profile that is responsible for the medicinal property of the medicine. So any analytical method which does not speak about the complete chemical properties of all of the constituents present in the medicine under study will not be useful.

Also the qualitative and quantitative profile of an herbal medicine vary due to many ecological factors like time of collection place of collection age of collection and monsoon conditions at the part of collection and soon.

It is already mentioned Frank R Stermirtz et al that the synergy of the other constituents present along with the major constituent is equally important because the first will not be able to do its function without the other constituents present in the extract as explained in the beginning.

The great Indian Medical sages have understood and defined the concept of Indian medicine by clearly defining the properties constituents and humors of the living beings. They also understood the inter and intra relations amongst them. In almost all the traditional philosophies the basic concepts include the nature and its role on the humors of the human beings. It is said that the human body is made of seven types of constituents Saptadhatus . The normal disorders Tridosha are of three types. The materialistic properties of any material in the universe are due to five elements Pancha bhutas . The interactions of different permutation and combination of these elements will influence the health. Hence the understanding of these properties will help to understand their physical and chemical properties and so there by their therapeutic efficacy. The philosophers in different parts of world have also developed such concepts suitable for their tradition and society.

In ancient times pre Samhitic and pre Susrutic period in India the physicians used Nadisastra Science of reading pulse to know the status of the Tridosha Vata Kapha and Pitta at the time of diagnosis to know the health status of the patient. The specific type of pulse not the heart pulse is studied to explain the type of disorder pre dominant in the patient History of Medicine in India by Dr Priya Vrat Sharma Indian National Science Academy .

It is used to understand the type of dosha s predominant in the patient at the time of diagnosis and the respective dosha s to be vitiated to cure the disorder. But this art of reading Nadi Pulse was confined to some people of high caliber personal skill and ability with lot of discipline. Hence every traditional practitioner was not able to practice it.

To over come this the art of understanding the physico chemical properties of the medicines and the humors of the human being had been developed and standardized. The inter and intra relations of these properties with nature which influences health had been studied and standardized thus the art of pharmacology and pharmaco therapeutics was developed by the physicians.

The therapeutic efficacy of a drug is defined with use of a substance that is capable of bringing about an pharmacological action in the human body Kriyagunavat and due to the collective functioning of many factors samavayikaranam just as a piece of cloth results because from its many component threads acting together.

In the world there are two main types of living things the plants and animals. It is also said that this world is made of five great elements i.e. Earth Water Air Fire and Space as said Panchabhutas in Ayurveda . The basic properties of these materials are of two types namely Strong Powerful and Mild Soft . If we accede to this highly tenable logic we can say that in this world all actions are due to different permutation and combination series of the above properties giving a wide range of properties and materials varying in their intensity.

In the philosophy of most of the traditional medicine world over the co inherence of the nature of the five constituents is taken into consideration by which the body is made. They will help in understanding the disease or disorder of the patient. This coherence is called Purusha in Ayurveda Yin and Yang in Chinese medicine. Table 6 appearing later part of the description gives how the Chinese system has used the above two factors how they were classified and defined to standardize the therapy and diseases.

Chinese medicine classifies the status of the human body as Yin and Yang representing sorrow and happiness as mentioned above. These factors are attributed for various properties of the medicines and living beings. The maintenance of these factors is done holistically by taking the role of chemical physiological and social factors in to consideration. Most of the time the Chinese medicine has a direct or indirect relation with various bio energy centers located in the body. The art of acupuncture uses the same. The other factors that reported in other philosophies have resemblance with Chinese medicine. After the panchabhautic concept the concept of Tridosha Pitta Kapha and Vata plays a major role in the Indian traditional medicine and the seven constituents Saptadhatus by which the body is made up of Ayurveda believes in the holistic philosophy of life and emphasis is given for the prevention of diseases rather than curing of diseases.

The holistic approach of ayurveda advocates that the soul mind and the body are the three integral parts of life and when these are in dynamic equilibrium and harmony the state is called good health Arogya . When they are in inequilibrium and disharmony the state is called disease. Vaishamya .

According to Ayurveda Tridosha maintains the physiological features of various systems in dynamic equilibrium status. In other words harmony of tridoshas bestows good health disharmony results to disease. Hence most of the time the tridoshas are dealt with in curing any disease. The selection of drug is made for the disease that should be dealt with.

A disease is defined as Any thing that brings a sadness and grief to this person Purusha is a disease. They are of four types 1. The accidental agantavaha 2. The body born Sarirah 3. The Mind born Manasah and 4. The natural Swabhavikah . It is for this reason most of the traditional concepts deal with both psychosomatic factors to cure the disease along with a disciplined and standardized method of life.

The diseases were classified into three classes generally. 1. The curable Sadhya 2. The Mitigateable or manageable Yapya and 3. The incurable Asadhya . As said above it is mostly considered as those bodily diseases having their source arise by the incompatibilities of the thridoshas viz. Vata Kapha and Pitta and blood individually or in combination with one another. But the diseases that arise not due to the above reason like psychological are dealt in a different way. That is why any traditional concept is used to take all the psychosomatic factors in to consideration to deal with a disease. The individual properties of the doshas are explained as given below.

Broadly it is outlined that the Vata or vayu dosha deals with endocrinological neuromuscular and nervous activities all those that cause the major or the gross dynamics of the life the foods that cause gas formation can be classified in this category. Pitta dosha refers to digestion and chemical functions or rasa kriya in general and Kapha dosha includes factors providing form stability and cohesion and lubrication factors. As the first dosha Vata is considered to influence the other two it is considered as the key factor for any disease. An elaborate description of these humors is given in elsewhere in the body of the text.

The decrease of vata leads to general dullness in activity. Hence the drugs which decrease this dullness will be of Vata Hara. The decrease of digestive capacity is called as pitta dosha. A medicine which increase the digestive capacity or activate bile mechanism will be of Pitta Hara in nature. The decrease of liquidity or mucous will lead to roughness an internal burning an emptiness in stomach a looseness in the joints thirst weakness and a continuos insomnia. These are the basic symptoms of kapha disorder. Any medicine that vitiates this disorder will be of Kapha Hara in nature.

A detailed description of all the factors is given for various philosophies in order to under stand more generally about different traditional medicines world over. Table No 1 and Table No 2 which are appearing in the later part of the description gives an elaborate description of the Indian Ayurvedic philosophy and various components in it.

Hence to understand the therapeutic efficacy of a medicine or food one needs to understand their physical and chemical properties. In the ancient times people use to understand these properties using the organoleptic methods like the taste the smell and the color of the materials. The basic properties classified were 1. Taste Rasa 2. Quality Guna 3. Potency Virya 4. Post assimilative status and effect of the constituents Vipaka and 5. Special action prabhava geometrical and optical isomer molecules 

It is these three factors namely the Doshas Disorders the Dhatus constituents and the Malas excreta that are mainly to be dealt for curing a disease or a disorder. If the above mentioned properties of the medicines tally with the dosha it will be vitiated or neutralized thus the disease is cured.

The classification and differentiation of drugs according to Ayurvedic pharmacodynamic and genetic principles vary from one situation to another according to doshic predominance of the patient. In other words there is a relation between the dravya gunas medicinal properties and doshas disorders . Addition or deletion of one or more drugs may be necessitated to treat an identical disease with the patients with different individual doshas or combination of doshas. Hence Ayurvedic pharmacotherapy is more individualistic according to dosha predominance of the patient and not generalized as in the case of modern medical pharmacotherapy. Identification of properties Rasa Guna Veerya Vipaka and Prabhava compatible to doshas is unique and more reliable in Ayurvedic pharmacotherapy.

The existing pharmacotherapy has not taken the above mentioned concepts into consideration. Phytochemists are interested only in isolation purification and structural elucidation of the active principles isolated from the plants and they passed on them to pharmacologists to study their biological activity. The pharmacologists in turn screen the molecule s for pharmacological activity establish its mechanism s of action and substantially rate its efficacy in comparison with the existing standard drugs used in modern medicine.

This concept is in no way going to help the traditional medical practitioners since the isolation of the active principle s drastically change the holistic character of the medicines and their therapeutic efficacy.

Instead of assaying the solvent extraction fractions active principles etc. obtained from the individual plants the analysis of total extract from a medicine using a solvent compatible to the human cells and cell membranes of the body will be of much use to evaluate the pharmacological activity of such medicines.

In the modern clinical trials conducted for the therapeutic standardization they are done in three phases four in the case of international utility involving large number of people. The information regarding a new medicine to be submitted to Drug Controller generally consists of 

The Phase one study is mainly concerned with assessing the drug s safety to know how the medicine is absorbed metabolized in the human body and excreted also it envisages to estimate the side effects and the dosage.

The phase two studies are dedicated to test the efficacy in a randomized way. One group of patients will be given the actual medicine and the second with placebo.

In the phase three study a large scale testing will be taken up to study the effectiveness benefits and the range of possible adverse reactions of the drug. After successful completion of this step the industry will go for marketing the drug.

In late phase III and IV studies pharmaceutical companies will have several objectives. Studies will help to know the efficacy of the new drug compared to an existing drug. The long term effectiveness and impact on a patient s quality of life due to the new drug will be known. The cost effectiveness of the drug therapy relative to other traditional and new therapies will be known.

But all the above studies are costly and time consuming. They will not be taking into account of the role of the ecological factors the genetical discipline as practiced in the Indian family and marriage relations the psychological the social and other variable parameters of the patient in to consideration. This will make the effectiveness of the drug limited to a particular group or genetic type of people.

C. Prior Art of Barcoding and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP Customer Relationship Management Applications 

The modern method of making any commercial goods proprietary is Bar coding. For all commercial transactions the barcode is widely used in many ways. To make the medicines identified as proprietary goods a novel method of bar coding is proposed in this invention.

It is reported Peernet bar code store Java Active X servlet e business that 1800 character and 2700 digits Even 9 99 999 numbers can be fed to a commercially available bar coding software to generate a barcode of any item. When a digital value and or numerical number is given to the bar coding software it generates a specific barcode pattern by the logic specified in the software proprietary for a user.

The barcode thus generated will present and display the attached display window file information having all details of the product label when a barcode readable vending machine sees through electronic eye or sensor the barcode on the product. The barcode can be read from any ERP and CRM applications world wide through network. Presently the catalogue numbers are being used for bar coding the medicines and related products which does not specifically contain any chemical property of the product as proposed in the method.

The main objective of the invention is to propose a novel method of chromatographic finger printing chemical and therapeutic standardization and bar coding of organic and organo metallic molecules from a plant animal or a naturally available or man made materials used as medicines.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide a novel chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines and formulations which obviates the drawbacks detailed above.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide a complete chemical analysis of the constituents present in the medicine under study and their conjugative properties indicating the therapeutic efficacy as per the traditional concepts of the medicine using new software developed.

Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a novel method for chromatographic fingerprinting of herbal medicines useful for the quick identification of the actual profile of the compounds present in the medicine under use along with their therapeutic efficacy of the constituents.

In yet another objective of the present method is to provide a novel chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines and formulations using the contour and 3 D chromatograms of the herbal medicines and formulations.

In yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a novel method for chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines useful to check the adulteration of the compounds present in the medicine under use.

Yet another objective of the present investigation is to prepare a standard analytical parameters like extraction with same solvent ethyl alcohol same run time 0 60 min same mobile phase acetonitrile along with phosphate buffer having a pH in the range of 5.5 7.5 and a same UV Visible Range of 200 800 nm.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to categorize and quantify the constituents of a medicine based on polarity and conjugation from 3 D and contour chromatograms and assess the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine on which humors it is going to act vitiate .

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a barcode for the selected peak of a molecule given in the image.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to prepare a database of barcodes for the fingerprints developed useful for all types of database applications.

Yet another objective of the present investigation is to generate display windows for all the samples of the fingerprints having the details of the samples like 3 D and Contour fingerprints the barcode details of the origin Industry or Country manufacturing date date of expiry reported dosha individual constituents used their assay batch number lot number M.R.P maximum retail price etc.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to attach the display windows with the respective barcodes facilitating to deal with display windows in all applications whenever they are used as a source of data and information.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to prepare a database of display windows thus generated and attached to the respective barcodes to use in the Enterprise Resource Planning ERP and Customer Relationship Management CRM applications for all commercial networking transactions of the medicines and samples.

Yet another objective of the present investigation is to prepare a database of barcode and display windows and any information specially required for the regulatory authorities to control the movement of the medicines in and out of the country.

Yet another objective of the present invention the UV Visible spectra of the compounds will provide the conjugative properties of the molecules and the concentration of the individual concentrations of the molecules along with the polarity of the molecules.

Yet another objective of the present invention the use of finger print of contour and 3 D chromatograms will be the basis for the identification of chemical constituents to limit the scope of the invention.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the adulterated food and drug samples substituted and contradictual food and drug samples and commercial samples of food and drug samples and to identify the pure and adulterated.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the organic and organo metallic constituents in any type samples to identify the chemical constituents present in it for various purposes of quality control and process standardization.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the Allopathic Ayurvedic Homoeo Siddha Unani Chinese Tibetan and Kampo Japanese medicine samples for the quality control and chemical and therapeutic standardization

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in naturally occurring or synthetically prepared samples and to identify and standardize the chemical constituents in them.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in naturally occurring or synthetically prepared samples and to identify and standardize the variation in chemical constituents in them due to Geological Ecological Genotypic and Phenotypic variation factors.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the study of chemical constituents in herbal products of single and formulated medicine samples and to identify the chemical constituents in them for chemical and therapeutic standardization.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to develop a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in biological samples and to identify and standardize the chemical constituents in them.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to prepare a large database which will give many generalizations of the therapeutic efficacy of a particular group of plants classified as a group for a particular disease or therapeutic classification.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a method which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties of the medicines like color used in traditional method of therapeutic standardization using conjugative and polarity properties of the individual constituents and the whole medicine.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a method which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties of the medicines like Taste Rasa namely Sour Salty Pungent Bitter and Astringent Amla Lavana Katu Tikta and Kashaya as said in Ayurveda respectively used in traditional method of therapeutic standardization using conjugative and polarity properties of the individual constituents and the whole medicine.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a method which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties of the medicines like Quality Potency Metabolite after assimilation or such modifications and Specific properties like Chirality of the molecules Guna Veerya Vipaka and Prabhava respectively as said in Ayurveda 

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a method which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties of the medicines like Heavy Light Cold Hot Soft Lubricated Supple Dry Slow Sharp Guru Laghu Sheeta Ushna Snigdha Manda Teekshna respectively as said in Ayurveda used in traditional method of therapeutic standardization using conjugative and polarity properties of the individual constituents and the whole medicine.

This invention relates to a method for detection and identification of principles from extracts of plants or animal natural or synthetic sources using chromatographic finger printing techniques said method comprising the steps of

Accordingly the novel basis of the present method is presenting the spectral properties of the chemical constituents displayed in 3 D and contour chromatograms as a novel method of fingerprinting. The chromatogram generated by this method provides the conjugative and polarity properties of the individual molecules present in the medicines giving the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine.

In a molecule the UV Visible absorbance capacity of the molecules depends on the structure of the molecules. When the double bonds or triple bonds are present in the molecules alternatively in the structure it is called as conjugated. The more the molecule is conjugated the more it will be chemically and biologically active. Hence the more the molecule is conjugated the more it will be therapeutically active. Thus the measurement of conjugative properties will give the therapeutic efficacy of a medicine. Hence the use of conjugate property for the therapeutic standardization is the novelty of the present invention.

A novel method is proposed for the quality control of herbal medicines and formulations mostly useful for the fingerprinting and standardization chemical and therapeutic of Traditional Medicines unlike a method being used for analyzing only active ingredient which is not known in many herbal medicines for the analysis of medicines at a single wavelength. It gives the total profile of the chemical constituents present in the traditional medicines along with physical and chemical properties of the compounds Say UV Visible absorptive property and polarity property . In the first part of the method an image of the fingerprint of the medicine will be generated. But as image cannot becomes analytical data a computer based method is developed to give the qualitative and quantitative data of the ingredients in the form of an analytical chromatographic report. The same is proposed as a novelty of the method of the invention.

The reactivity of any molecule will depend upon the number of double and triple bonds existing in the molecules along with the electrophilic and nucleophilic sites on the molecule. The moieties donating electron and accepting electron will create difference in the total electrical charge of the molecule. This makes the molecule polar. Hence polarity of the molecules will provide information about the capability of a molecule to donate or accept the electron with another molecule. This will control the activity of a molecule. Thus the information of the polarity of a molecule will speak about the reactivity of the molecule. In the present method the chromatogram provided by the method will give the conjugative and polarity properties of the constituents present in a medicine in the finger print. Thus this method is used for the standardization of the medicines to know the therapeutic efficacy of a medicine using their conjugative and polarity properties of the medicines. This is the novelty of the proposed method.

As said above the UV Visible spectra and polarity of the compounds will indicate the conjugative and polarity properties of the compounds and thus indicating the chemical medicinal property of the medicines. This profile of spectra of all the constituents in a single picture the finger print as proposed now will become the blue print of the constituents present in herbal medicines and formulations. This becomes a superior method of identification and standardization of herbal medicines than the existing as the peaks will express the UV VIS. Properties or conjugative and polarity properties of the constituents unlike in a conventional chromatogram taken at a single wavelength along with the quantification of the constituents.

As described in the traditional standardization methods the colors of the medicines were used to know and standardize their therapeutic efficacy. The colors of the molecules are understood by their absorptive properties of the radiation of the UV Visible range of radiation. Based on the structure functional groups conjugation and the extent of unsaturation the absorbance of a particular wavelength depends. The more the molecule is conjugated the longer the wavelength of absorption will be. Hence the UV Visible absorbance of any molecule is widely used in the qualitative and quantitative properties of the constituents. The colors and the therapeutic efficacy of various medicines were given in the ancient literature.

Ultimately the colors of the molecules are due to a specific chemical nature of the molecule. When the same is studied the chemical property can also be understood. In ancient times the colors of the flames were used for the quality control of metals and related products this involves the basic spectrophotometric principles. Thus study and understanding of the interaction of the electromagnetic radiation will be useful to study the chemical nature and thus the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines. The same principle has been used in the present spectrophotometric method of fingerprinting and standardization. The main novelty of the present method involves in the division of the fingerprint into different therapeutic zones based on the scales of wavelength Conjugation and retention time Polarity to understand the therapeutic efficacy in traditional terms of a single or a formulated medicine using an instrumental and software based program.

Using the computer based software developed a barcode is generated for a selected peak of a molecule given in the image. Where X is the Retention Time Y is the Wave length in contour chromatograms and absorbance in 3 D chromatograms R the red color indicating the highest concentration of the constituent G the green color indicating the lesser concentration of the constituent and B Blue color indicating still lesser concentration of the constituent are the coordinates provided by the present software is feed in any commercially available re salable bar coding software added in the present software generates a barcode for a single constituent or for many constituents. The Image of the fingerprint is viewed on a display window attached to it. This will be displayed whenever the electronic eye of the vending machine reads the barcode. This makes the image Finger print and barcode proprietary for a product of an industry or a country. This is claimed as another novelty of the method of the invention.

When the polarity of the column is fixed and the polarity of mobile phase is varied constantly in an increased or decreased order on a reverse phase column the constituents present in the sample will elute in the order of high polar constituents eluting first the medium polar constituents next followed by non polar constituents. Care is taken in eluting the constituents in the order of increased or decreased order of polarity such that no constituent of any polarity will be left un eluted from the column achieving total elution. The order and properties of polarity and elution in the case of normal phase columns are applicable same as in the case of reverse phase column but in reverse. In a normal phase column the non polar constituents will elute first and followed by polar constituents based on order of polarity of the mobile phase used for elution.

Thus a fingerprint developed having the chemical constituents arranged in the increased or decreased order of polarity will help to bring therapeutic generalizations about the medicines. This is another novelty of the proposed method.

The image of contour chromatogram developed after the analysis is divided in to three zones on X and Y axis. The conjugative property Absorption of a particular wavelength of radiation is taken on Y axis and polarity is taken on the X axis as the elution of the constituents is controlled using the polarity of the mobile phase composition. Now as reported in literature the Y axis is scaled as per the therapeutic efficacy based on wavelength color . The entire image is divided in to six chambers wherein the chemical constituents have specific conjugative and polarity properties. This in turn is proportional to the therapeutic efficacy of the constituents in the chamber. Thus when a medicine is fingerprinted based on the color represented for the absorption of a specific wavelength and having a specific polarity the total colors in that zone is calculated and interpreted for the therapeutic efficacy of the constituents present in it. Thus the holistic therapeutic standardization and chemical standardization is achieved using this method.

Mostly the elution of the samples were done from high polarity mobile phase to low polarity mobile phase. Thus in the finger prints the constituents present in the first zone Zone 1 will be of high polar in nature. The same pattern applies to the other zones the medium polar constituents eluted in the medium polar zone Zone 2 and the low or non polar constituents eluted in the non polar zone Zone 3 . This pattern reverse when a normal phase column is used due to its elution property as described above.

Most of the high polar molecules are highly reactive chemically thus biologically. When they enter the first part of the digestive system mouth they will immediately start acting on the biological system and the enzymes present there. Then the constituents will enter the stomach and intestine where they will under go different changes Post assimilation effects Vipaka in Ayurveda due to the digestive juices and their enzymes present in the part. In the process of absorption the moment the molecules of high activity high polar immediately start interacting with the biological system and show their therapeutic properties. This is compared that in Ayurveda the intestinal part of the human body is classified as Pitta zone where the high polar molecules are playing a major role. The heat causing mechanism will play an important role in the diseases and biological mechanisms related to. It indirectly indicates the molecules of high reactive the high polar molecules. After the absorption the blood with all the absorbed constituents will carry them to heart and the parts related to it. Then the blood will be sent to different parts of the body. In Ayurveda the upper portion of the human body is defined as the Kapha zone where the cold mechanism will be playing an important role. Thus the molecules of medium polar molecules will play an important role in the mechanisms related to this zone.

The low polar and non polar constituents will be able to enter to the human body only through blood transfer Thus the body organs where the mechanism of availability of the chemical constituents is only by blood will be coming in the last category of the polarity. The non polar oils fats and other such molecules and mechanisms in the human body are classified as Vata disorders and all such disorders are cure using the same type of materials.

The low and non polar constituents will be eluting in the last zone of the fingerprint. Thus this zone zone 3 is considered as Vata zone. Thus the basic humors of the molecules can be identified based on their polarity which facilitates to know on what disorder dosha it is going to act upon. Thus the present method is useful for the therapeutic standardization of the medicines.

Thus the total constituents present in the Zone 1 Pitta zone Zone 2 Kapha zone Zone 3 Vata zone are present in the form of a pie diagram which represents the ratio of the efficacy of the medicine on each of the disorder. Thus medicines having constituents in the order of 50 20 30 will be medicines of tridoshahara of the order of 50 20 30 . Thus the therapeutic efficacy is standardized quantitatively. The increase or decrease of any one or two of the other doshas is done by formulating medicine by adding other medicines and prepare a suitable formulation needed to cure a specific individual.

Thus a fingerprint having the scales of conjugation absorbance and polarity the 3 D chromatogram will give information about the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine. Analyzing it using all its three dimensional properties of the said image will do quantification of 3 D chromatograms of the medicine. For example if the 3 D chromatogram is considered as a cap with a hood the matching of the entire cap 3 dimensionally with another sample of different qualitative and quantitative properties the extent it matched will be presented as an analytical report qualitatively and quantitatively. Here the hood of the Cap is compared to the peak of the molecule at a particular wavelength. A sample with more number will like a cap with many hoods. Thus the matching of the three dimensional coordinates will provide a foolproof method of comparison and analysis. The coordinate it matched will give qualitative and the extent it matched will give the quantitative data of the sample understudy. This is made possible by special software prepared for this purpose. This becomes an ultimate method of quality control. This is another novelty of the method of the invention.

The invention also relates to a software based data processor of 3 D chromatograms and color contour image of an ingredient said processor comprising computing means and capable of 

One of the present embodiments of the present invention relates to a method for chromatographic finger printing chemical and therapeutic standardization and bar coding of organic and organo metallic molecules from a plant animal or a naturally available or man made materials.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a novel method for chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines and formulations which obviates the drawbacks detailed above.

Still another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for a complete chemical analysis of the constituents present in the medicine under study and their conjugative properties indicating the therapeutic efficacy as per the traditional concepts of the medicine using new software developed.

Still another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of novel chromatographic finger printing of medicines that is useful for the quick identification of the actual profile of the compounds present in the medicine under use along with their therapeutic efficacy of the constituents.

In yet another embodiment of the invention an embodiment of a novel concept of chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines and formulations using the contour and 3 D chromatograms of the herbal medicines and formulations is proposed. They were developed on a Photo Diode Array detector PDA of a High Pressure Liquid Chromatograph. This delineates the data of the spectral properties of the constituents present in the herbal medicines eluted under experimental analytical conditions.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for the chromatographic finger printing of extract from a medicine of any nature containing molecules that absorb Ultraviolet and Visible range of radiation 200 800 or of any range of electromagnetic radiation.

In another embodiment of the present invention the UV Visible spectra of the compounds provide the conjugative properties of the molecules and the concentration of the individual concentrations of the molecules.

In another embodiment of the present invention the fingerprints developed for a same medicine extracted under different pH values are helpful to understand the drug release in the intestine system at different pH values of an individual.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the UV VIS spectra of all the constituents are shown in a single image The Chromatographic Fingerprint 

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the finger print becomes the blue print of the constituents present in a herbal medicine or formulation for an assay and quick identification of the medicine understudy.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the fingerprint using the contour and 3 D chromatogram is the basis for the identification of chemical constituents existing and or formed new.

In yet another embodiment the UV Vis spectra and polarity of the compounds indicates the conjugative and polarity properties of the compounds and thus indicating the chemical medicinal property of the medicines. This profile of spectra of all the constituents in a single picture The Finger Print as proposed now becomes the blue print of the constituents present in herbal medicines and formulations. This becomes a superior method of identification and standardization of herbal medicines than the existing as the peaks express the UV VIS. Properties or conjugative and polarity properties of the constituents unlike in a conventional chromatogram taken at a single wavelength along with the quantification of the constituents.

In yet another embodiment of the present method the division of the fingerprint into different therapeutic zones based on the scales of wavelength Conjugation and retention time Polarity to understand the therapeutic efficacy in traditional terms of a single or a formulated medicine is done by using an instrumental and software based program.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention from a large database prepared using this method it gives many generalizations of the therapeutic efficacy of a particular group of plants therapeutically classified as a group for a particular disease.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention using the X Y R G B as coordinates of a selected peak in the fingerprint a barcode is generated using a bar coding software which makes the medicine proprietary for an industry.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention 3 D chromatogram of the medicine is analyzed using all its 3 dimensional properties of the said image. If the 3 D chromatogram is considered as a cap with a hood the matching of the entire cap 3 dimensionally with another sample of different qualitative and quantitative properties the extent it matched is presented as an analytical report qualitatively and quantitatively. Here the hood of the Cap is compared to the peak of the molecule at a particular wavelength. A sample with more number will like a cap with many hoods. Thus the matching of the three dimensional coordinates will provide a foolproof method of comparison and analysis. The coordinate it matched will give qualitative and the extent it matched will give the quantitative data of the sample understudy. This is made possible by special software prepared for this purpose. This becomes an ultimate method of quality control.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to provide a novel chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines and formulations using the contour and 3 D chromatograms of the herbal medicines and formulations is proposed. They are developed on a Photo Diode Array detector PDA of a High Pressure Liquid Chromatograph. This delineates the data of the spectral properties of the constituents present in the herbal medicines presented in a specific order of polarity under experimental analytical conditions.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a to use UV Visible spectra of the compounds which provides the conjugative properties of the molecules and the concentration of the individual concentrations of the molecules along with the polarity of the molecules.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to provide the UV VIS spectra of all the constituents shown in a single image The Chromatographic Fingerprint . The fingerprint thus becomes the blue print of the constituents present in a single medicine or formulation for an assay and quick identification of the medicine understudy.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to use of fingerprint of contour and 3 D chromatograms as a basis for the identification of chemical constituents to limit the scope of the invention.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to the method having standard analytical parameters like Extraction with ethyl alcohol maintaining same run time 0 60 min using same mobile phase acetonitrile along with phosphate buffer having a pH in the range of 5.5 7.5 and a same UV Visible Range of 200 800 nm.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a method uses a standard analytical parameter like Extraction with same solvent ethyl alcohol for all samples for the finger printing of a particular therapeutic group of samples to make therapeutic generalizations.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the adulterated food drug and chemical samples and to identify the pure and adulterated.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the substituted food drug and chemical samples and to identify the pure and the substituted.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the contradictual food drug and chemical samples and to identify the pure and the substituted.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the commercial samples of food and drug and to identify the pure and the substituted.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the organic and organo metallic constituents in any type samples to identify the chemical constituents present in it for various purposes of quality control and process standardization.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the Allopathic Ayurvedic Homoeo Siddha Unani Chinese medicine Tibetan and Kampo Japanese medicine samples for the quality control and chemical and therapeutic standardization

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in Naturally occurring samples and to identify and standardize the chemical constituents in them.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in Naturally occurring samples and to identify and standardize the variation in chemical constituents in them due to geological and Ecological factors.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in Naturally occurring samples and to identify and standardize the variation in chemical constituents in them due to Genotypic and Phenotypic variation factors.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of chemical constituents in Synthetically prepared samples and to identify and standardize the chemical constituents in them for chemical and therapeutic standardization which ever is applicable.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of chemical constituents in herbal products of single and formulated medicine samples and to identify the chemical constituents in them for chemical and therapeutic standardization.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in biological samples and to identify and standardize the chemical constituents in them.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of fingerprinting for the study of variation of chemical constituents in different brands of products of single and formulated food and medicine samples and to identify the chemical constituents in them for chemical and therapeutic standardization.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of preparing a database giving many generalizations of the therapeutic efficacy of a particular group of plants classified as a group for a particular disease or therapeutic classification.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to develop fingerprinting and to categorize and quantify the constituents of a medicine based on polarity and conjugation from 3 D and contour chromatograms.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method which provides a barcode for the selected peak of a molecule given in the image wherein X the retention time Y the wavelength R the number of red pixels G the number of green pixels and B the number of blue pixels are the coordinates provided by the present computer based Microchip Dongle switch hardware and software locked software and is feed to any commercially available re salable bar coding software resident in the proposed software generates a barcode. Some examples of images displaying the X retention time Y wavelength R number of red pixels G number of green pixels and B number of blue pixels the coordinates of a particular peak s which is specific to the product and the barcodes thus generated are enclosed.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to prepare a database of barcodes for the fingerprints developed useful for all types of database applications.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to generate display windows for all the samples the fingerprints are developed. In the display window all details of the samples like both 3 D and Contour fingerprints the barcode details of the origin Industry or Country manufacturing date date of expiry reported dosha individual constituents used their assay batch number lot number M.R.P and other information on the label are displayed. When the barcode on the label is shown to the vending machine it will display the attached display window. This helps to know the chemical and therapeutic authenticity of the medicine being sold purchased in all types of regulatory and commercial applications.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to attach the display windows with the respective barcodes facilitating to deal with display windows in all applications whenever they are used as a source of data and information.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to prepare a database of display windows thus generated and attached to the respective barcodes to use in the ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING ERP and CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT CRM applications for all commercial networking transactions of the medicines and samples for which the database was prepared.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to prepare a database of barcodes and display windows and any information specially required for the regulatory authorities to control the movement of the medicines in and out of the country.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for chromatographic fingerprinting which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties of the medicines like color for the therapeutic standardization of the medicines and humors.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for chromatographic fingerprinting which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties like Taste Rasa like Sour Amla Salty Lavana Pungent Katu Bitter Tikta Astringent Kashaya of the medicines for the therapeutic standardization of the medicines and humors.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for chromatographic fingerprinting which enables to understand and standardize the Chemical properties of the medicines like Cold Hot Slow in action Sharp in action Heavy Light Soft Lubricated Supple Dry Guna s like Sheeta Ushna Manda Teekshna Guru Laghu Snigdha and Rooksha as described in Ayurveda of the medicines for the therapeutic standardization of the medicines.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for chromatographic fingerprinting which enables to understand and standardize the Physico Chemical properties of the medicines like Potency Metabolite formation after assimilation and Specific properties like Charlotte of the molecules Described as Veerya Vipaka and Prabhava for the therapeutic standardization of the medicines and humors.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention provides a software based data processor of 3 D chromatograms and contour image of an ingredient.

The method of the invention is described in steps with reference to the accompanying tables drawings flow charts and examples which are provided to illustrate some of the embodiments of the invention and the same should not be construed as limitations on the inventive concept embodied herein.

The following examples are given by way of illustrations and these should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention.

The invention is described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings flow charts and examples which are provided to illustrate some of the embodiments of the invention and the same should not be construed as limitations on the inventive concept embodied herein.

Hence unlike a method currently under use where in a chromatogram is given at a single wavelength a novel method of chromatographic standardization finger printing and bar coding is proposed using contour and 3 D chromatograms. It provides the total chemical profile properties like polarity and conjugation there in of the chemical constituents present in complex medicines like herbal medicines and formulations or any medicine. Further bar coding the finger prints thus generated will provide many commercial features in dealing such medicines using the ERP and CRM applications.

The existing method of TLC fingerprinting being used as a chromatographic fingerprint is illustrated in a composition sold by the Himalaya Drug Co. Makali Bangalore a portion of the label of the composition being shown in . This composition includes only an assay of the constituents present in it but does not provide any chemical property like conjugation or polarity. Another method of fingerprinting by HPLC shows a chromatogram at a single wavelength presented as a Chromatographic Finger Print of this medicine. In this a selected peak is identified chemically what it is by structure using various other analytical techniques like NMR LC MS and JR for structural elucidation. So the single chromatogram by itself is not able to say what the efficacy of the medicine is without the support of other costlier analytical instruments. It will be highly impractical to use such costly techniques for a complex herbal medicine and formulations prepared by formulating various organic and inorganic medicines for a particular therapeutic purpose.

The quality of any formulated medicine will depend on the process with which it was made. This will be different for each pharmacy or pharmacist. What actually needed for the quality control of herbal medicines and formulations is a simple analytical method that can give the number of constituents qualitative and quantitative present in a single medicine or formulation and the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine under study. Hence any method which does not provide the above information is incomplete.

In the method of chemical standardization of the present invention the constituents were first extracted in to a suitable solvent. The extract was subjected to separation into individual constituents on a High Pressure Liquid Chromatograph under standardized analytical conditions. The 3 D and contour chromatograms given by the instrument were converted in to chromatographic fingerprint images. The images were analyzed using image analysis software specially prepared for this work. The out put data is interpreted for the said standardization. Detailed description of the method is given in experimental description of the method.

The traditional therapeutic standardization is highly individualistic by ability and perception of the doctor. A general availability of such method will be practically difficult. But the existing scientific scenario emphasizes that any method or mechanism needs to be standardized and reproducible. Hence in the present method of chemical and therapeutic standardization an instrumental method is proposed which brings down the human factor. This is made possible by an instrumental analytical technique which explains about the chemical and therapeutic efficacy of the medicines under study in a simple way. In a most scientific and organized society of modern science the knowledge of assessing the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines should be explained with rational justification rather than individual skills and abilities as they will differ from individual to individual and are non reproducible. The method of the invention envisages the same without deviating from the traditional concepts.

As explained above if one can assess the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine by the physico chemical properties Polarity and conjugation the activity of the medicines is understood thus achieving the therapeutic standardization. In the present method the conjugative and polarity properties are taken in consideration to assess the therapeutic efficacy of a medicine.

In the ancient literature a clear classification of soils and plants were given based on their physico chemical nature and therapeutic efficacy. The selection of medicines for a particular disease was done based on the guidelines like color texture odor and physical appearance. Table 8 of the effect of different colors on different body parts shows how color was used for this purpose. The soil types and the diversity of the drug action were also mentioned while selecting a medicine. The effect of climate and its effect in the efficacy on the drug plants were also clearly mentioned. Because the chemical constituents present in the plant depends on these geological and ecological variable factors guide lines were laid down for the place of collection time seasonal and daily of collection part of plant for collection and age of plant for collection required for a specific therapeutic action.

Based on the generalia of the plants used for a common type of diseases the plants were classified into 37 groups Wealth of Susrutha K. H. Krishnamurthy Indian Institute of Ayurveda Coimbatore India originally from Susruta Samhita suprasthana 38 . Thus these plants should contain the chemical constituents having similar therapeutic efficacy on the reported disease.

When the fingerprints of the different classes were studied some common features are found about the therapeutic efficacies of the medicines. The same efficacy was reported in the traditional literature also. In other words i.e. the experimental and reported results are equal. Hence studying different medicines having different therapeutic efficacy validated the method.

The shows all medicines which are yellow in color. In the ancient literature of Ayurveda all these medicines were classified as Haridra class all the medicines being yellow in color like Haridra Turmeric . When the fingerprints are studied it is found that all these medicines are reported to be used as Kapha Hara vitiation of disorders related to mucogeneous constituents of the body. Hence it is understood that the color of the medicines has a direct relation with their therapeutic efficacy. Rationally it is also true that the color and the efficacy of the medicines are due to chemical constituents and their physico chemical properties.

The fingerprints of single medicines like Picrorrhiza Kurro and Formulations like Arogya Vardhini and Avipattakara Churna are presented in . The molecules eluted in Zone 1 indicates the presence of Polar constituents based on the elution pattern due the set analytical conditions. A general tendency of this elution pattern for the medicines reported to be Pitta Hara confirms that high polar constituents act mainly as Pitta Hara.

The fingerprints of single medicines like Processed and Shilajit are reported to be Kapha Hara. The molecules eluted in Zone 2 indicate the presence of Medium Polar constituents. A general tendency of this elution pattern for the medicines reported to be Kapha Hara confirms that medium polar constituents act mainly as Kapha Hara as shown in .

The fingerprints of single medicines like and Formulations like Suvarna yogaraja Guggulu Brihatvata chintamani with swarnamakshkam Huthasana and Mahayogaraja Guggulu are presented in this Figure. The molecules eluted in Zone 3 indicate the presence of very low or non polar constituents mostly oily in nature based on the elution pattern due the set analytical conditions. It is observed that any medicine used for this disorder contain or mixed with oils. Along with oily type of constituents the herbo mineral organo metallic molecules eluting in this zone are also found Vata Hara. A general tendency of this elution pattern for the medicines reported to be Vata Hara confirms that low or non polar constituents act mainly as Vata Hara as shown in .

The fingerprints of single medicines like Hollarrheana Antidyssentrica and are presented in this Figure. The molecules eluted in Zone 1 and 2 indicate the presence of high polar and medium polar constituents. Thus these medicines having the medium polar constituents are found to be Pitta Kapha Hara. This confirms that the efficacies of the medicines are under stood by the polarity of the constituents present in it as shown in .

The finger prints of the single medicines like Tribulus Terrestrius Moring a Olifera Piper Beetle and formulations like Trikatu indicate the presence of constituents in the Zone 2 and Zone 3 indicating the efficacy as Kapha Vata Hara in nature explain the same.

The fingerprints of the single medicines like monneri and formulations like Kanchanara Guggulu indicate the presence of constituents in the Zone 1 and Zone 3 indicating the efficacy as Pitta Vata Hara in nature. In a formulation called Anadabhairavi even though the efficacy reported is Pitta Vata Hara it is found Kapha Vata Hara by finger printing. This indicates the artificial preparation of the medicine was not successful to prepare a medicine of the required efficacy. Hence this method is useful in the process standardization of the preparation of complicated formulations mentioned above. indicate the same.

The finger prints of the single medicines like Red Seeds Embalika Officinalis and formulation like Mahalakshmi vilas ras indicate the presence of constituents in all the three Zones of 1 2 and 3 indicating the presence of molecules of the entire range of polarity. This indicates that they will be of Tri Dosha Hara by efficacy. In the finger print of Mahalakshmi vilas ras the presence of two similar type of molecules can be seen like isomeric in nature. The Prabhava effect is understood in these type of medicines when such type of isomeric Geometrical and Chiral constituents are present. shows the fingerprints of all medicines of Tri Dosha Hara.

The fingerprints of Kalimusali and Safedmusali indicate how two plants of different family s were classified under same therapeutic group. The fingerprints show similar constituents in all the three zones with little difference in assay indicating the tri doshahara property as indicated in .

With reference to the fingerprints of a single medicine of two different sources like used in both Ayurveda and Homoeo are given. The fingerprints contain constituents of three polarities but mostly high polar molecules are greater in number. On careful observation of the fingerprints it is observed that the presence and absence of molecules at 12 minutes is the only difference between both the images. The taste of the first medicine was very bitter the medicine identified as being good by efficacy when compared to the second one the medicine identified as being poor by efficacy . Thus using the taster as a measure of the efficacy of the medicines is also proposed this was mostly used in the ancient literature as shown in .

The fingerprints of Hollarrena Antidysentrica a medicine collected from two different parts of the country has shown much difference in their chemical profile. This indicates the influence of geological ecological genotype and phenotypic and other variable factors on the chemical constituents of the herbal medicines this is illustrated by .

A vast difference was seen in two samples of beetle leaves one from Andhra Pradesh and another from Calcutta of India . This confirms the role of ecological genotypic and phenotypic variations in the chemical constituents of plant parts.

In the the Eco regions precipitation Temperature and Climate of India were shown to understand the role of seasons on the ecology of the flora and fauna of it. The variations in the seasons will have an impact on the chemical constituents of the herbal plants and thereby medicines produced from them. This applies to the entire world whenever an herbal plant is collected from different parts of the world.

Referring to the fingerprints of two formulations used as cosmetics like Herbal head Bath powders are given. As illustrated the fingerprint of the pure herbal material is totally different from the adulterated one. The artificial detergents and foaming agents eluted at 25 to 40 minutes are clearly seen in the adulterated sample these components being highly basic and soapy in nature. This supports that the method of the invention is useful for the regulatory authorities to monitor various commercial herbal products and thus check the pilferage of traditional medicines with adulterations and substitutions as illustrated in .

The fingerprints of a formulation namely Trikatu of two different brands shows difference in its assay. This may be due to usage of single medicine s were used to prepare the formulations from different sources. The present method shows the extent they are different qualitatively and quantitatively facilitating to prepare standardized medicines and extracts of herbal medicines as shown in .

The fingerprints of a single medicine of three different brands of the same food material like turmeric is given in . In the finger print of the natural turmeric it is observed that the yellow curcumin molecules eluted at 20 minutes. The same molecules are seen in all the brands commonly. The difference in the profile is the commercial samples are because they were prepared processed Boiled turmeric rhizomes and the natural is from unprocessed Un boiled rhizomes.

This confirms that this method is useful in many purposes of dealing the traditional medicines. It is useful for modern medicines also to understand their therapeutic efficacy in traditional terms.

Method of Bar Coding Enterprise Resource Planning ERP and Customer Relationship Management Application CRM Application

In the present method the software analyzes the image and can display the coordinates X retention time Y wavelength R number of red pixels G number of green pixels and B number of blue pixels by the present computer based Microchip Dongle switch hardware and software locked software for a contour chromatogram for a particular peak which is specific to the product. When this data is transferred feed to a resident in built re salable bar coding software automatically an optional pixel value of a peak in the image it generates the barcode having attached the display window with all details of the product under study.

The method of the invention facilitates to barcode any number of constituents present in a chromatographic finger print of a herbal medicine using the X retention time Y wavelength R number of red pixels G number of green pixels and B number of blue pixels as the coordinates provided by the present computer based Microchip Dongle switch hardware and software locked software and the values of each of the constituents provided by the present software. These factors will be representing the chemical and therapeutic efficacies of the constituents. Hence instead of a mere catalogue number presently used for the bar coding a novel method of bar coding is proposed where in the coordinate values of the constituent will be displayed along with other details. Thus the barcode and the coordinates will speak about the chemical and therapeutic properties of the product.

It becomes a tool for the regulatory authorities like Drug Controller Public analysts Food adulteration enforcement authorities Forensic and Customs and Central excise departments for the regulation of the herbal Products. The fingerprint of the medicines should be printed on the label and should be tallied when it is checked. This also helps to monitor the various other brands of a same medicine for an industry to monitor. shows how the software gives the coordinates for a selected peak of the image. These values will be given for a barcode to be generated. are the barcodes thus generated. show how a display window will be for an herbal medicine with all label details. The barcode will be able to show when the display windows when they are attached to the barcodes of the respective products. When a large database is prepared for the products and made available in the network any ERP and CRM application can use for any required purpose by network. shows how the network woks in an ERP and CRM applications networked.

In the present method of analysis a Validated High Pressure Liquid Chromatograph equipped with a Binary Gradient system of pumps a Photo Diode Array Detector PDA and a Software based data processor for presentation of the chromatograms was used. After the complete elution of all ingredients the 3D and contour chromatograms having the information of the UV Visible Spectra absorbance and retention times of all the constituents present in a single medicine or formulation were converted into an image and proposed as a finger print. This enjoys the merit of not requiring any internal or external standard sample for an authentic qualitative and quantitative analysis of all the ingredients present in a medicine unlike in the present method of analysis of medicines.

The proposed method is described in 4 steps with reference to the accompanying drawings flow charts and examples which are provided to illustrate some of the embodiments of the invention and the same should not be construed as limitations on the inventive concept embodied herein.

Constituents are extracted from the medicines using ethyl alcohol selected based on the chemical nature polarity of the sample. When the pH of the aqueous alcohol extract is varied the extraction of constituents also has varied. The basic pH has extracted more number of constituents than acidic pH. Suitable pH was selected for extraction of different medicines and the same was maintained using buffers. The role of acidity and alkalinity was taken into consideration while selecting the pH for extraction.

The extract was subjected to separation analysis using High Pressure Liquid Chromatographic HPLC instrument. In the present method of analysis a Validated High Pressure Liquid Chromatograph equipped with a Binary Gradient system of pumps a Photo Diode Array Detector PDA and a Software based data processor for the preparation of the chromatograms were used. A known amount of the sample say 20 ul of extract is injected into rheodyne injector fitted with 20 ul loop . Elution of the sample was performed with suitable time programmed gradient system of mobile phase at a fixed flow 1 ml min . Care is taken that no part of the sample is left in the column un eluted. The following analytical conditions set for the analysis.

The instrument was triggered for the analysis after injecting the sample into the injector. The run was stopped whenever the analysis is completed or the instrument will stop the run automatically after the entire time program is completed.

In the three types of display of data the chromatograms one window displays chromatogram at a selected wavelength in another it displays the contour chromatogram which displayed the retention time run time of the analysis on X axis and the wavelength range on Y axis. In another window it displayed the 3 D chromatogram of the sample where in it displayed the retention time run time of the analysis on X axis the concentration range on Y axis and the wavelength range on Z axis. The 3 D and contour chromatogram thus developed by the system was converted into an image.

The images thus generated were analyzed by the proposed software which provides a novel chromatogram and the qualitative and quantitative analytical data of the in gradients present in the medicines. The pixel values represented by different colors from Violet Indigo Blue Green Yellow Orange and Red attributed as a measure of the concentration quantitative of the constituents proportional to the color. Extracting the individual colors mentioned above and shows in separate windows for each color. This is the basis of chemical standardization. Some chromatograms thus generated are shown in .

The chromatogram thus provided by the software gives the information of conjugative shown by the UV VIS absorbance and polarity properties of the individual constituents together. The image is divided into three zones representing Zone 1 High polar zone Zone 2 medium polar zone and Zone 3 low or non polar zone scaled by retention times based on the elution pattern depending on the column used and the mobile phase. Reversing the analytical conditions can reverse the elution pattern.

The 3 D chromatograms of the medicine are analyzed using all its three dimensional properties of the said image. If the 3 D chromatogram is considered as a cap with a hood the matching of the entire cap 3 dimensionally with another sample of different qualitative and quantitative properties the extent it matched will be presented as an analytical report qualitatively and quantitatively. Here the hood of the cap is compared to the peak of the molecule at a particular wavelength. A sample with more number looks like a cap with many hoods. Thus the matching of the three dimensional coordinates provides a foolproof method of comparison and analysis. The coordinate it matched gives qualitative and the extent it matched gives the quantitative data of the sample understudy. This is made possible by special software prepared for this purpose. This becomes an ultimate method of quality control.

The interaction of the polarity of the molecules being separated the polarity of the stationary phase used and the polarity of the mobile phase used for the elution of the sample controls the elution pattern of the molecules. The resultant inter action of all the three and other related parameters like temperature etc. decides the elution pattern and order of elution of the constituents based on their polarity. Thus in a medicine all the polar molecules will elute in first Zone 1 Polar zone of the image all the medium polar molecules will elute in Zone 2 Medium polar zone of the image and all the low polar or non polar molecules will elute in Zone 3 Non polar zone of the image . When the molecules eluted in these three zones of many fingerprints many generalizations were made regarding the chemical and therapeutic efficacy of the medicines. This is another basis of therapeutic standardization. The zones are shown marked in the . Thus the chromatogram gives the information how it is going to act chemically and so therapeutically. When the individual constituents present in each zone and represented graphically or by any means of data presentation the total constituents of the respective zone gives the percentage it is going to act on the particular dosha. Thus the data explains how it medicine is going to act therapeutically on the vitiation of each dosha collectively based on the qualitative and quantitative properties of the constituents present in the medicine. For example if the medicines has 30 constituents in high polar zone the pixel quantities of various colors like green yellow orange and red of a specific zone as quantities 70 in medium polar zone it can be represented as a medicine acts 30 on pitta and 70 on kapha as the colors represent different concentrations in the fingerprints. Hence a medicine can be assessed as of Pitta Kapha Hara 30 70 . Thus the vitiation of doshas is quantified. This helps the doctor to under stand the efficacy of the medicines and decide his dosage. Some example Pie diagrams are given in the .

3 D and contour Spectra of the reported herbal medicines were developed using the reported analytical conditions. The thumb nail view of the medicines shows how the finger prints can be handled by a software as it is done in the software used in handling the human fingerprints. All the features like searching the similar and compare the similar fingerprints etc. can be done by inserting the necessary software features. In the thumbnails of the fingerprints for various medicines are given. The lists of medicines shown as fingerprints were shown in table 15.

After the complete elution of all ingredients the 3D and contour chromatograms were converted into images and proposed as fingerprints. This enjoys the merit of not requiring any internal or external standard sample for an authentic qualitative and quantitative analysis of all the ingredients present in a herbal medicine unlike in the analysis of a synthetic medicines.

After developing the image of the 3 D and contour chromatograms of the medicine under study Hence forth called as Chromatographic finger print it is analyzed by the soft ware proposed for the analysis of various colors representing the Qualitative and Quantitative properties of the constituents present in it.

Scientifically an image cannot become an analytical data hence a computer based image analysis software software and hard ware protected has been developed to analyze the image and give proportional concentrations of the ingredients of the medicine under study. Based on the colors of the constituents present in various retention times and pixel values of the image.

Now the images of the fingerprints were given to Image Analysis software as said above. The analysis of various colors was done by which the constituents will be represented as peaks of the chromatogram and thus providing a novel presentation of chromatogram in the form of a colored bar chart. It shows the number of compounds and their conjugative properties UV VIS absorptive property of all of the constituents eluted. The detailed description of the process involved in the analysis of the image is discussed in the technical features of the software.

The bar chart type of chromatogram thus developed gives a chromatogram having a scale of Retention time 0 60 on the X axis and wavelength in the range of 200 800 nm on the Y axis. It gives the number of pixels occupied by each of the colors of each ingredient in the image facilitating the qualitative and quantitative analysis of the individual constituents present in it. Thus the chromatogram generated is presenting the number of constituents present in a medicine and their UV absorption range with quantity of pixels proportional to the concentration of the molecules.

When the image is divided into three zones based on the elution pattern of the molecules and the changing polarity of the mobile phase. The Zone 1 is polar zone as the column used is a reverse phase column the Zone 2 is medium polar zone where in the medium polar molecules are eluted and finally the Zone 3 is low or non polar zone as the non polar and very low polar molecules will elute in this zone. Thus the molecules eluted in zone 1 will be polar the molecules eluted in the zone 2 will be of medium polar in nature and the molecules eluted in the zone 3 will be of very low or non polar in nature. Hence the three zones of the images will give the polarity of all the constituents eluted.

Based on the polarity of the molecules eluted the medicines are classified according to traditional system of therapeutic efficacy where in the polar compounds are found to be Pitta Hara the medium polar compounds are Kapha Hara and the low or non polar compounds are Vata Hara. This is the basis of therapeutic standardization of the medicines. The polarity of the constituents is compared to a continuous spectrum of radiation where in the dosha is classified as acute to chronic of each dosha. The starting of the zone will be acute and the end of the zone will represent the chronic. Thus the compounds present in the said zone will act on the said intensity of the disease.

Table 16 shows division of the fingerprint in to different therapeutic zone based on the color of absorption and polarity. The scale on X axis shows the scale of polarity of the molecules based on the polarity of the mobile phase and Y axis shows the range of wavelength 200 800 nm absorbed. Based on the reported therapeutic efficacy in the literature based on the physico chemical properties Color and Chemical properties and the experimental the therapeutic efficacy of various medicines was standardized. Some deviations were found which could be due to the effect of variable environmental factors influencing the chemical constituents of the medicines.

Thus the method will help to know the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines under study. Hence the proposed method will become a novel visual proof for the understanding the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine reported or new single or formulated.

The analysis of the images was done using software developed for this purpose. The details of the software is given in the release notes and

The fingerprints generated are analyzed for their chemical and therapeutic properties. The basic features in a fingerprint are found to be

The polarity of the column is fixed. It is a normal phase or a reversed phase stationary phase. In the normal phase column stationary phase will be polar and in a reverse phase column the stationary phase will be non polar. The extent of polarity of the stationary phase varies from brand to brand even in same type of reverse phase or normal phase column. The polarity of the stationary phase will be controlled using the polarity of the mobile phase additives like buffers and pH. When the polarity of the mobile phase is varied constantly in the increased or decreased order on a reverse phase column the constituents present in the sample will elute in the same order i.e. the high polar constituents will be eluted by the high polar mobile phase the medium phase mobile phase will elute the medium polar constituents and the non polar constituents will be eluted by the non polar or low polar mobile phase. The most preferred pattern is to change the polarity of the mobile phase either increased or decreased order of polarity such that no constituent of any polarity will be left un eluted from the column thus achieving total elution. Thus by controlling the polarity of the stationary phase polarity of the mobile phase will be managed to bring a required effect on the polarity of the constituents to achieve separation of required order of elution.

The order and properties of polarity and elution in the case of normal phase columns are applicable as in the case of reverse phase column but reverse to the reverse phase column. The non polar constituents will elute first followed by polar constituents based on the order of polarity of the mobile phase used for elution.

Thus in the present elution also the elution of the constituents is controlled and driven in the required pattern by controlling the polarity of the mobile phase and the order of changing it in an orderly way.

Mostly the elution of the samples were done from high polarity mobile phase to low polarity mobile phase. Thus in the finger prints the constituents present in the first zone Zone 1 will be of high polar in nature. The same pattern applies to the other zones the medium polar constituents eluted in the medium polar zone Zone 2 and the low or non polar constituents eluted in the non polar zone Zone 3 . This pattern reverse when a normal phase column is used due to its elution property as described above.

Most of the high polar molecules will be highly reactive chemically thus biologically. When they enter the first part of the digestive system mouth they will immediately start acting on the biological system and the enzymes present there. Then the constituents will enter the stomach and intestine where they will under go different changes Post assimilation effects Vipaka in Ayurveda due to the digestive juices and their enzymes present in the part. In the process of absorption the moment the molecules of high activity high polar will immediately start interacting with the biological system and show their therapeutic properties. This can be compared that in Ayurveda the intestinal part of the human body is classified as Pitta zone where the high polar molecules are playing a major role. The heat causing mechanism will play an important role in the diseases and biological mechanisms related to. It indirectly indicates the molecules of high reactive the high polar molecules.

After the absorption the blood with all the absorbed constituents will carry them to heart and the parts related to it. Then the blood will be sent to different parts of the body. In Ayurveda the upper portion of the human body is defined as the Kapha zone where the cold mechanism will be playing an important role. Thus the molecules of medium polar molecules will play an important role in the mechanisms related to this zone.

The low polar and non polar constituents will be able to enter to the human body only through blood transfer Thus the body organs where the mechanism of availability of the chemical constituents is only by blood will be coming in the last category of the polarity. The non polar oils fats and other such molecules and mechanisms in the human body are classified as Vata disorders and all such disorders are cure using the same type of materials.

The low and non polar constituents will be eluting in the last zone of the fingerprint. Thus this zone ZONE 3 is considered as Vata zone. Thus the basic humors of the molecules are able to be identified as per their polarity which facilitates to know on what disorder dosha it is going to act upon. Thus the present method is useful for the therapeutic standardization of the medicines.

The image was divided in to three zones on X and Y axis. The conjugative property Absorption of a particular wavelength of radiation is taken on Y axis and polarity is taken on the X axis as the elution of the constituents is controlled using the polarity of the mobile phase composition. Now as reported in literature the Y axis is scaled as per the therapeutic efficacy based on wavelength color . The entire image is divided in to six chambers where in the chemical constituents have a specific conjugative and polarity property. This in turn is proportional to the therapeutic efficacy of the constituents in the chamber. Thus when a medicine is fingerprinted based on the color represented for the absorption of a specific wavelength and having a specific polarity the total colors in that zone is calculated and interpreted for the therapeutic efficacy of the constituents present in it. Thus the holistic therapeutic standardization and chemical standardization is achieved using this method. A schematic representation is given in table 15 showing the relation of conjugation and polarity to therapeutic efficacy of the different constituents present in a medicine.

When the 3 D chromatograms of the medicine will be analyzed using all its 3 dimensional properties of the said image If the 3 D chromatogram is considered as a cap with a hood the matching of the entire cap 3 dimensionally with another sample of different qualitative and quantitative properties the extent it matched will be presented as an analytical report qualitatively and quantitatively. Here the hood of the Cap is compared to the peak of the molecule at a particular wavelength. A sample with more number will like a cap with many hoods. Thus the matching of the three dimensional coordinates will provide a foolproof method of comparison and analysis. The coordinate it matched will give qualitative and the extent it matched will give the quantitative data of the sample understudy. This is made possible by special software prepared for this purpose. This becomes an ultimate method of quality control.

But any method without quantification will be of no use. Hence the total colors of the constituents in the image of a particular zone are considered as a representation of the amount of the polar constituents present in the medicine. Thus the total constituents present in the Zone 1 Pitta zone Zone 2 Kapha zone Zone 3 Vata zone are present in the form of a Pie diagram which represents the ratio of the efficacy of the medicine on each of the disorder. Thus medicines having constituents in the order of 50 20 30 will be medicines of Tridoshahara of the order of 50 20 30 . This was done using the software developed. Thus the therapeutic efficacy is standardized quantitatively. The increase or decrease of any one or two of the other doshas can be done by formulating medicine by adding other medicines and prepare a suitable formulation needed to cure a specific individual.

The chemical standardization was done using the software by quantifying the individual constituents based on the colors denoting the concentrations of the ingredients. The range of the wavelength that a molecule absorbed denotes the conjugative properties.

As described in the traditional standardization methods the colors of the medicines were standardized based on their colors and their therapeutic efficacy. It applies even in the case of any molecules. The Table 8 of colors and their efficacy will explain how colors were used to standardize the efficacy of the medicines. The colors of the molecules can be understood by their absorptive properties of the radiation of the Uv Vis range of radiation. In the Table 10 of colors and the relation with wavelengths the colors of the medicines and their characteristic wavelengths are given. Based on the structure functional groups conjugation and the extent of unsaturation will influence the wavelength of absorption absorbance maxima of the molecule. The more the molecule is conjugated the longer the wavelength of absorption will be. Hence the UV VIS absorbance of any molecule is widely used in the qualitative and quantitative properties of the constituents.

The colors and the therapeutic efficacious of various medicines were given in the ancient literature. The colors of the molecules are due to a specific chemical nature of the molecule. The colors of the flames were used for the quality control of metals and related products which involves the basic spectrophotometric principles. Thus study and understanding of the interaction of the electromagnetic radiation will be useful to study the chemical nature and thus the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines. The same principle has been used in the present spectrophotometric method of fingerprinting and standardization. In other terms an existing concept has been presented in the form of a novel analytical method removing the error of human factor. All the medicines for which fingerprints developed were given in table of therapeutic efficacy of the medicines were given in table 14. The technical details of the software are given in the release notes of the software.

The various operational mechanisms are described below operational sequences with various functionality are shown in .

Any color is not absolute. It is mixture of the following shades of the colors present before and after it they vary between a range of values. The range for the colors used to identify as the colors given above the respective values are taken from the international standard 256 color scale. The values used in the present software are 

Similarly other colors were taken as standards for the extraction of colors. These standards are exclusive for the present software requirements and are modifiable if required 

While image is analyzed the software reads the image pixel by pixel and reads and extracts the color according to the color standards designated stores and transfers them for further display as bar graphs.

It is useful for any country for fingerprinting and patenting the traditional medicines of that country. Because the finger print of a single medicinal plant is not similar to a finger print of the same plant in another place or country due to the variations in its chemical profile. The variations in chemical profile is due to the influence of Ecological factors like the tropical region variations soil water quality and the genotypic and phenotypic variations factors on the chemistry of the plant.

This method helps the country to fulfill one of the regulations made by WHO for the member countries to standardize methods for the utility and quality control of herbal medicines and their regulation.

This is useful as a tool to prevent international piracy of traditional medicines by Passing a Law that the The Medicinal plants for which the finger prints are developed are national property . If a medicine is applied for any type of patent in any place of the world and if the finger print tallies with the finger print of the medicine available in the challenging country the patent could be objected.

Bar coding the fingerprints of the medicines helps in the authentic regulation and protection of the medicinal plants.

By converting the barcode of the fingerprint of a medicinal plant into a machine readable language commercial and regulatory work becomes easy.

Fingerprints of the medicines helps the Food and Drug controllers Customs and Central Excise departments to regulate check the use misuse and pilferage of the herbal medicines inside the country and while allowing importing of such medicines.

A fingerprint developed for a medicine or a formulation helps the industry to protect their process technology by comparing the fingerprint of the same medicine of other brands. Thus it helps to implement the patent law more efficiently.

The fingerprint helps to monitor how the medicines are changing its medicinal properties by the addition of another medicine at different stages of process of preparing a formulation.

Industry can use the database of fingerprints developed for all the native plants available in the country for their selection of the place of collection of a medicine. It helps the industry which part of the country and in which season is suitable for the collection of herbal medicines as the ecological factor changes the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines.

This method helps the researchers to understand the traditional formulations prepared. It also helps to monitor a new formulation under preparation.

It helps to know how new molecules are formed when a complicated traditional formulation is prepared.

The fingerprints developed for a same medicine extracted under different pH value helps to understand the drug release in the intestine system at different pH values of an individual.

The contour chromatogram of the medicine becomes a Fingerprint of it. Because it contains the UV Vis spectrum band with concentration of the ingredients along with the polarity of the molecule.

The spectral bands of all the constituents are given in a single picture assess the medicine about its therapeutic properties and nature very easily.

The 3 D Chromatogram becomes a photo of all the UV spectra of all wavelengths of each constituent in a single picture indicating the chemical conjugative and polarity property of the molecule eluted

The database also gives information about the medicinal value of the various medicinal plants of the country therapeutically classified in the country and the role of the ecological factors on the chemical constituents of the same plant available in various tropical Zones of the country. This facilitates to select a plant for collection of the herbal medicines suitable to be used for the therapeutic usage for a medical professional or an herbal trader.

The therapeutic and ethano botanical classification of the fingerprints helps to bring some generalizations useful for the doctors and researchers for complete understanding of the traditional medicines by analyzing the fingerprints.

The present method facilitates to prepare chromatographic finger printing of herbal medicines and formulations which is useful for many quality control and regulation purposes.

The present method facilitates chemical standardization qualitative and quantitative of the said medicines by providing the conjugative and polarity properties of the individual molecules present in the medicines or any organic or organo metallic compound which has UV VIS absorptive property. This kind of analysis is of much use in the chromatographic analysis of Herbal medicines of Single and Formulations where the use of external or internal standards are practically not possible.

The invention facilitates to study understand and monitor the therapeutic efficacy of the said medicine under study. It helps to understand the therapeutic actions and properties of traditional medicines reported in the ancient literature and confirm the same in the form of a reproducible analytical data. Thus it provides therapeutic standardization of the medicines under study. It shows the polarity zones like Polar Medium polar and Non polar molecules present in the sample thus facilitating to understand the efficacy of the medicine as a whole.

This method facilitates to re standardize the reported medicines to the present therapeutic needs. It helps to monitor and study formation of new organic and organo metallic molecules which has UV VIS absorptive property in the process of preparing a reported or a new formulation. This also helps to standardize the process technology of preparing a reported or new formulation by monitoring the constituents and their changing chemical and therapeutic properties.

It facilitates to generate a barcode by an in built bar coding software wherein the X retention time Y wavelength R number of red pixels G number of green pixels and B number of blue pixels are the coordinates given by the present software. Some examples of the barcode for chromatograms are given. The invention also facilitates bar coding one or more of the constituents present in the fingerprint thus facilitating the commercial transactions easy by ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING ERP and CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT CRM applications. A database thus prepared helps the regulatory authorities to monitor the movement of the said medicines inside or from outside the country from production to the consumer. The database of the barcodes thus prepared becomes the resource for the ERP vending machines or of any of such kind. The machine will display all details of the medicines like company its chemical fingerprint and the therapeutic efficacy of the medicines the said medicine. This makes the identification of the medicines more authentic than the present.

A data base of the fingerprints thus generated using this method helps to bring many generalizations of the therapeutic efficacy of a particular therapeutic class of plants. Thus one can under stand why a particular plant is added in that class. This is explained in the Table 14 enclosed.

The fingerprints printed on the label of the medicine helps the doctors to understand the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine just before use and confirm the quality control of the medicines for every batch.

The Image analysis of Chromatographic Finger Print Images Contour Chromatograms of various Medicines of any philosophies Single and Formulations developed are useful for many purposes as described in various steps of this application.

This is useful to know for a consumer the therapeutic efficacy of medicines single or formulated claimed on the label and confirms to contain the same.

This helps the consumer act to monitor the quality control of herbal medicines sold in the market and protect the interests of the consumer.

The Image analysis of Chromatographic Finger Print Images Contour Chromatograms of various Medicines of any philosophies Single and Formulations developed is useful for detection of any adulteration of the medicines.

Based on the color reported the entire image is divided in to 3 Zones on X axis and 3 Zones on Y axis. X axis shows the POLARITY SCALE due to the mobile phase composition. Y axis shows CONJUGATION due to UV VIS absorbance. When the molecule is more conjugated it absorbs at higher wavelengths 800 nm . Thus constituents present in the respective zones will act as shown in the figure in the respective therapeutic zones will be providing respective therapeutic efficacy. Quantification of these constituents was done using the UV VIS absorptive property which is directly proportional to the quantity of the constituent.

