---

title: User translated sites after provisioning
abstract: The display language of a site may be changed to another alternate language by users of a site at any time. For example, a first user may access the same site in its default language (i.e. English) and a second user may access the site using their preferred language (i.e. French) even though the default language of the site is different from their preferred language. The language of the site may be changed from one language to another language at any time a user is accessing the site. Application content changes are identified by the site helping to ensure consistency between the default language and the alternate languages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515729&OS=08515729&RS=08515729
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08515729
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
Businesses often create sites to allow collaboration of team members working on various projects. These sites provide the team members a collaborative place to share ideas and work on projects together. Using these sites team members typically share information and documents generate ideas respond to other team member s ideas and track the progress of the projects. While the team members may be more comfortable using their native languages the sites are provisioned with a default language with which they use to communicate on the site.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The display language of a site may be changed to alternate languages by users of a site at any time. For example a first user may access the site in its default language i.e. English and a second user may access the same site using their preferred language i.e. French even though the default language of the site is different from their preferred language. The language of the site may be changed from one language to another language at any time while a user is accessing the site. Application content changes are identified by the site helping to ensure consistency between the default language and the translations to the alternate languages.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements various embodiments will be described. In particular and the corresponding discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which embodiments may be implemented.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Other computer system configurations may also be used including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Distributed computing environments may also be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative computer architecture for a computer utilized in the various embodiments will be described. While computer is generally illustrated as a client computing device computer may be configured as a client a server mobile device or any other computing device that is used to provide and or interact with a web site. Computer includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which will be described in greater detail below.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive the computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the Internet. The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . The network connection may be wireless and or wired. The network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display screen that includes a user interface a printer or other type of output device. Computer may also be coupled to data source s not shown through a network connection and or some other connection.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked personal computer such as the WINDOWS VISTA operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store one or more application programs such as a web browser application . For example browser program may be the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER application.

Server is configured to provide site services for computer . As illustrated server includes site software that is configured to provide a site that is accessed through browser application on client . According to one embodiment the site software such as MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT SERVICES may be used to provide collaboration tools document storage tools and workflow tools that are associated with a site. For example a site may be created that provides users team members with ways to share documents share calendar or event information generate and discuss ideas about a project and adding assigning and tracking tasks concerning a project. The site may be configured as an Internet Site Extranet Site and or an Intranet site or any other site that is accessible to users. Site software is configured to provide the same site to users using different supported languages . According to one embodiment the supported languages are provided in language packs that allow a user to view the site in different languages. When a language is selected by a user for the display of the site the navigation and pages for that site are displayed to that user in the selected language. In this way one user of the site may view the site using a first language a second user may view the same site using a second language a third user may view the same site using a third language and the like.

User interface UI is designed to provide a user with a visual way to view the site and to select a language of the site in which to view the site. For example UI may be used to select a language from one of the available supported languages in language packs . According to one embodiment once a user selects a language to view the site that language will remain selected for that user until changed. In this way different team members may view the site in their preferred language. The language of the site may be changed at any time. For example a user may change the site from a default language to an alternate language and back to the default language during one visit to the site. UI may also be used to make modifications additions to the content of the site. Site software includes tools to help maintain the consistency of the site s languages when changes are made in one language that may affect the other languages see below .

For illustration purposes and not intended to be limiting an example of providing a display of the same site in different languages to different users will be described. Suppose that user and user both work at the same company and routinely collaborate on projects and interact with one another. For a project suppose that user creates a site that will be worked on by a group of users including User User through User N. User initially provisions the default language of the site to be English. Some of the users have a different preferred language as compared to the default language. User could have initially provisioned the site using any of the supported languages . The language that is initially chosen for provisioning the site is considered the default language for the site and all of the other supported languages for the site are considered alternate languages. Generally the language specified when a site is created controls the language used in the site itself. For example if the site was provisioned in French all of the toolbars navigation bars list and form pages and so on appear in French. If the site was created in Arabic the text is in Arabic and the default left to right orientation of the site is changed to right to left to properly display Arabic text.

Continuing with the example User uploads documents to the Documents Library creates a number of tasks in the Task List and sets up a recurring meeting with the users using the Team Site Calendar using site tools . User performs these operations using the default language of English. User however would prefer to view site in their native language of French. Since French is one of the supported languages on this site he goes ahead and changes the language of the site to French using a user interface that is provided by the site in browser of User s display. According to one embodiment the language of the site may be automatically changed to another language based on a language setting. For example the language selected may be based on the user s browser s settings or some other setting that indicates a language preference. In the current example once French is selected the application content for site is now displayed in French. Application content includes but is not limited to help items menu bars links titles descriptions and the like. Generally application content is content that describes the user interface UI for the site. According to one embodiment the application content is the strings that represent the UI controls help items titles and descriptions relating to the site. Content that is not translated after provisioning the site is considered user content. This user content may include items such as documents in document library titles and properties of documents list items or other content that is loaded onto the site by a user. User content is displayed in the language in which it is uploaded. For example the documents uploaded to the document library in the example would be displayed in the default language of English to User even though the rest of the site is displayed in the alternate selected language of French.

Suppose now that User decides to add a new Document Library to keep track of expense reports associated with the project. User creates the new Document Library on the site using the UI. Since User is working in the default language English UI the Title and Description of the Document Library are made in English. When User adds the new content the title and description strings entered for the new document library are automatically marked by the site as un translated for the other supported alternate languages in this case the title and the description strings in French are marked as un translated in content table . Each piece of application content e.g. column name list title etc. includes an identifier in content table that indicates whether that piece of application content has been translated between the default language and a particular alternate language. This identifier is set and reset automatically by site when a user adds or modifies application content in either the default or alternate languages.

A user may decide to add other new application content to the site at any time. For example the user may add a new list or add a new column to an existing list. The user can make such an addition to the site using the default language or add the new application content in one of the alternate languages. When a user adds new application content in the default language the content in the alternate language s is added in the default language. In this case the application content for all alternate languages is marked as un translated internally. When a user adds new application content in the alternate language the content in the default language is also added. All other alternate languages will be missing translations and thus fallback to the strings just added in the default language. According to one embodiment when a user attempts to add content using an alternate language a warning is displayed stating that the content should be added using the default language and then translated into the supported alternate languages.

Instead of adding content to site a user may decide to modify the content of a site. For example the user may change the title or description of a list the title or description of a site the name or description of a column and the like. The content may be modified using the default language or using one of the other supported alternate language s . According to one embodiment a modification of the content using the default language is treated as changing the content whereas a modification using one of the alternate languages is treated as translating the content. According to one embodiment the modification is treated as a translation of the content since there is no easy way to determine the nature of the change.

A translation setting in site determines how modifications to content using the default language are treated by the supported alternate languages. This translation setting may be predefined when the site is initially provisioned and or changed at a later time through the user interface. Depending on the state of the translation setting the alternate language content string is replaced by the new default language string or the alternate language application content string remains unchanged. In both of these cases the content for all alternate languages is internally marked as un translated within content table . According to one embodiment each independent string in the application content includes an identifier that indicates whether the string is translated or un translated.

Marking the content as un translated makes it easy for a user to locate the un translated content such that translations may be provided for the modified content. According to one embodiment the user may access all of the un translated strings and provide a translation of the content in the supported alternate languages. This may be done in many different ways. For example each supported language may have a separate file that is modified and then imported into the site or all of the strings for each of the languages may be included in a single file.

When a user modifies the content using one of the alternate languages the content in the default language and any other alternate languages is unchanged. This type of change by a user is treated as a translation and thus is limited to the alternate language the user is working in. The default language values and the other alternate language values are not changed. When the change is made using one of the alternate languages the modified content is marked as translated within the strings for the alternate language.

Returning to the example when User using the alternate language French UI navigates to the newly created Document Library created by User he sees the Title and Description of the Document Library are in English. User decides to translate the Title and Description right away by navigating to the List Settings page and changing the English string values for the Title and Description fields to French. The English strings for these fields which User sees are not affected by User s change. Once User makes these changes the strings User modified are marked as translated indicating that the default language string s have been translated to this supported language.

In addition to translating the title and description strings User also wants to change the name of an existing column on the newly created Document Library. Again because User is viewing the site using the French UI he edits the column name and changes the French string value to a new French string value. Should User want User or other users to view the name change in other languages that string has to be translated for the other languages. One way to make these changes is for User to change the language of the site from French to the default language of English and make the corresponding change in the English UI. The name of the column is now the same between the two languages. User could also perform this operation for the other supported alternate languages.

While translations may be done one at a time a user may also query the site using an Application Programming Interface API the UI or access a file that includes the strings to determine the changes made that require a translation. For example suppose that User completes a number of customizations over some period of time to the existing site using the default language English . This could include the creation of new lists additions of new columns modification of list titles modification of column names etc. Since these changes will cause the alternate languages to contain a mixture of the default language and the alternate language translations should be provided to make navigation in the alternate language easier. Rather than having User manually select each change in the French UI and make the corresponding translations any user can export the strings needing translation. Alternatively a predefined user could have access to the strings needing translation. According to one embodiment the un translated strings are exported to an XML file. Alternatively all of the strings could be exported to the file. According to one embodiment the strings that need translating are identifiable since the strings are marked as un translated. A user could then send the strings off to be localized for their language or make the translations themselves and import the changed file.

The user also is provided the option of importing all the strings associated with any modified or new application content for any of the alternate languages available on the site. This importing and exporting may be accomplished many different ways. For example an Application Programming Interface API may be used and or the UI of the site may be used. In this way the functionality may be accessed programmatically and or manually through a user interface.

When reading the discussion of the routines presented herein it should be appreciated that the logical operations of various embodiments are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system implementing the invention. Accordingly the logical operations illustrated and making up the embodiments described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

After a start operation the process flows to operation where a user accesses a site. For example the user may navigate to a site that provides collaboration tools for team members working on a project. The site may be accessed by the user in a default language or in any of the other supported alternate languages.

Moving to operation the user decides to modify content that is associated with the site. For example the user may decide to add new application content to the site or modify existing application content of the site. For example the user may decide to modify a description of a title of a column a title of a documents folder a description of a button and or add a column list document folder and the like that is associated with the site.

Flowing to decision operation a determination is made as to whether the user is making the change using the default language of the site or if the user is using an alternate language that is supported by the site to make the modification. Generally any modification that is made in the default language is considered a change to the site that affects the translation of the corresponding strings in the alternate supported languages whereas any modification in one of the alternate languages is considered a translation of the string.

When the user is making the change s using the default language then the process flows to operation where any strings that are associated with the content change are marked as un translated. For example if a user makes a change to a title in the default language then the alternate language strings representing the translation of the title are marked as un translated indicating that those strings need to be translated into the alternate language.

When the user makes the change to the content using one of the alternate languages then the changed string is marked as translated indicating that the string has been translated for the alternate language. In this case the strings representing the underlying default language string remain un translated.

After a start operation process flows to operation where the strings marked as translated un translated are obtained. The strings may be obtained programmatically using an API and or obtained manually. For example a user may access a file containing the strings and or query the site to obtain a list of the strings. Other methods may also be used.

Moving to operation translations of the strings are provided. The translations may be obtained many different ways. For example the strings could be sent to a translation service to be localized to the supported alternate languages or the user could provide the translations by changing the strings within the export file.

Flowing to operation the user imports the translated strings into the site. As with the exporting of the strings the importing may be performed manually or programmatically. For example the user could replace the appropriate file s or the user could use an API to insert the translations into the correct location for the site.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

