---

title: Active access monitoring for safer computing environments and systems
abstract: Techniques for controlling access are disclosed. The techniques can be used for reference monitoring in various computing systems (e.g., computing device) including those that may be relatively more susceptible to threats (e.g., mobile phones). Allowed access can be disallowed. In other words, permission to access a component can be effectively withdrawn even though access may be on-going. After permission to access a component has been allowed, one or more disallow access conditions or events can be effectively monitored in order to determine whether to withdraw the permission to access the component. As a result, allowed access to the component can be disallowed. Access can be disallowed by effectively considering the behavior of a component in the aggregate and/or over a determined amount of time. By way of example, a messaging application can be disallowed access to a communication port if the messaging application sends more messages than an acceptable limit during a session or in 4 hours. Disallow-access policies, rules and/or conditions can be defined and modified, for example, by end-users and system administrators, allowing a customizable and flexible security environment that is more adaptable to change.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08631468&OS=08631468&RS=08631468
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08631468
owner_city: Suwon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081110
---
Conceptually a computing system e.g. a computing device a personal computer a laptop a Smartphone a mobile phone can accept information content or data and manipulate it to obtain or determine a result based on a sequence of instructions or a computer program that effectively describes how to process the information. Typically the information is stored in a computer readable medium in a digital or binary form. More complex computing systems can store content including the computer program itself. A computer program may be invariable and or built into for example a computer or computing device as logic circuitry provided on microprocessors or computer chips. Today general purpose computers can have both kinds of programming. A computing system can also have a support system which among other things manages various resources e.g. memory peripheral devices and services e.g. basic functions such as opening files and allows the resources to be shared among multiple programs. One such support system is generally known and an Operating System OS which provides programmers with an interface used to access these resources and services.

Today numerous types of computing devices are available. These computing devices widely range with respect to size cost amount of storage and processing power. The computing devices that are available today include expensive and powerful servers relatively cheaper Personal Computers PC s and laptops and yet less expensive microprocessors or computer chips provided in storage devices automobiles and household electronic appliances.

In recent years computing systems have become more portable and mobile. As a result various mobile and handheld devices have been made available. By way of example wireless phones media players Personal Digital Assistants PDA s are widely used today. Generally a mobile or a handheld device also known as handheld computer or simply handheld can be a pocket sized computing device typically utilizing a small visual display screen for user output and a miniaturized keyboard for user input. In the case of a Personal Digital Assistant PDA the input and output can be combined into a touch screen interface.

In particular mobile communication devices e.g. mobile phones have become extremely popular. Some mobile communication devices e.g. Smartphones offer computing environments that are similar to that provided by a Personal Computer PC . As such a Smartphone can effectively provide a complete operating system as a standardized interface and platform for application developers. Given the popularity of mobile communication devices telecommunication is discussed in greater detail below.

Generally telecommunication refers to assisted transmission of signals over a distance for the purpose of communication. In earlier times this may have involved the use of smoke signals drums semaphore or heliograph. In modern times telecommunication typically involves the use of electronic transmitters such as the telephone television radio or computer. Early inventors in the field of telecommunication include Alexander Graham Bell Guglielmo Marconi and John Logie Baird. Telecommunication is an important part of the world economy and the telecommunication industry s revenue is placed at just under 3 percent of the gross world product.

Conventional telephones have been in use for many years. The first telephones had no network but were in private use wired together in pairs. Users who wanted to talk to different people had as many telephones as necessary for the purpose. Typically a person who wished to speak whistled into the transmitter until the other party heard. Shortly thereafter a bell was added for signaling and then a switch hook and telephones took advantage of the exchange principle already employed in telegraph networks. Each telephone was wired to a local telephone exchange and the exchanges were wired together with trunks. Networks were connected together in a hierarchical manner until they spanned cities countries continents and oceans. This can be considered the beginning of the public switched telephone network PSTN though the term was unknown for many decades.

Public switched telephone network PSTN is the network of the world s public circuit switched telephone networks in much the same way that the Internet is the network of the world s public IP based packet switched networks. Originally a network of fixed line analog telephone systems the PSTN is now almost entirely digital and now includes mobile as well as fixed telephones. The PSTN is largely governed by technical standards created by the ITU T and uses E.163 E.164 addresses known more commonly as telephone numbers for addressing.

More recently wireless networks have been developed. While the term wireless network may technically be used to refer to any type of network that is wireless the term is often commonly used to refer to a telecommunications network whose interconnections between nodes is implemented without the use of wires such as a computer network which is a type of communications network . Wireless telecommunications networks can for example be implemented with some type of remote information transmission system that uses electromagnetic waves such as radio waves for the carrier and this implementation usually takes place at the physical level or layer of the network e.g. the Physical Layer of the OSI Model . One type of wireless network is a WLAN or Wireless Local Area Network. Similar to other wireless devices it uses radio instead of wires to transmit data back and forth between computers on the same network. Wi Fi is a commonly used wireless network in computer systems which enable connection to the internet or other machines that have Wi Fi functionalities. Wi Fi networks broadcast radio waves that can be picked up by Wi Fi receivers that are attached to different computers or mobile phones. Fixed wireless data is a type of wireless data network that can be used to connect two or more buildings together in order to extend or share the network bandwidth without physically wiring the buildings together. Wireless MAN is another type of wireless network that connects several Wireless LANs.

Today several mobile networks are in use. One example is the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM which is divided into three major systems which are the switching system the base station system and the operation and support system Global System for Mobile Communication GSM . A cell phone can connect to the base system station which then connects to the operation and support station it can then connect to the switching station where the call is transferred where it needs to go Global System for Mobile Communication GSM . This is used for cellular phones and common standard for a majority of cellular providers. Personal Communications Service PCS PCS is a radio band that can be used by mobile phones in North America. Sprint happened to be the first service to set up a PCS. Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service D AMPS is an upgraded version of AMPS but it may be phased out as the newer GSM networks are replacing the older system.

Yet another example is the General Packet Radio Service GPRS which is a Mobile Data Service available to users of Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and IS 136 mobile phones. GPRS data transfer is typically charged per kilobyte of transferred data while data communication via traditional circuit switching is billed per minute of connection time independent of whether the user has actually transferred data or has been in an idle state. GPRS can be used for services such as Wireless Application Protocol WAP access Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS and for Internet communication services such as email and World Wide Web access. 2G cellular systems combined with GPRS is often described as 2.5G that is a technology between the second 2G and third 3G generations of mobile telephony. It provides moderate speed data transfer by using unused Time Division Multiple Access TDMA channels in for example the GSM system. Originally there was some thought to extend GPRS to cover other standards but instead those networks are being converted to use the GSM standard so that GSM is the only kind of network where GPRS is in use. GPRS is integrated into GSM Release 97 and newer releases. It was originally standardized by European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI but now by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . W CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access is a type of 3G cellular network. W CDMA is the higher speed transmission protocol used in the Japanese FOMA system and in the UMTS system a third generation follow on to the 2G GSM networks deployed worldwide. More technically W CDMA is a wideband spread spectrum mobile air interface that utilizes the direct sequence Code Division Multiple Access signaling method or CDMA to achieve higher speeds and support more users compared to the implementation of time division multiplexing TDMA used by 2G GSM networks. It should be noted that SMS can be supported by GSM and MMS can be supported by 2.5G 3G networks.

Generally a mobile phone or cell phone can be a long range portable electronic device used for mobile communication. In addition to the standard voice function of a telephone current mobile phones can support many additional services such as SMS for text messaging email packet switching for access to the Internet and MMS for sending and receiving photos and video. Most current mobile phones connect to a cellular network of base stations cell sites which is in turn interconnected to the public switched telephone network PSTN one exception is satellite phones .

The Short Message Service SMS often called text messaging is a means of sending short messages to and from mobile phones. SMS was originally defined as part of the GSM series of standards in 1985 as a means of sending messages of up to 160 characters to and from Global System for Mobile communications GSM mobile handsets. Since then support for the service has expanded to include alternative mobile standards such as ANSI CDMA networks and Digital AMPS satellite and landline networks. Most SMS messages are mobile to mobile text messages though the standard supports other types of broadcast messaging as well. The term SMS is frequently used in a non technical sense to refer to the text messages themselves particularly in non English speaking European countries where the GSM system is well established.

Multimedia Messaging Service MMS is a relatively more modern standard for telephony messaging systems that allows sending messages that include multimedia objects images audio video rich text and not just text as in Short Message Service SMS . It can be deployed in cellular networks along with other messaging systems like SMS Mobile Instant Messaging and Mobile E mal. Its main standardization effort is done by 3GPP 3GPP2 and Ope Mobile Alliance OMA .

The popularity of computing systems especially mobile communication devices is evidenced by their ever increasing use in everyday life. Accordingly techniques the can improve the safety of computing systems especially mobile communication devices would be very useful.

Broadly speaking the invention relates to computing environments and or computing systems. More particularly the invention pertains to improved techniques for controlling access in computing environments and or computing systems.

It will be appreciated that the techniques among other things can be used for reference monitoring in various computing systems e.g. computing device including those that may be relatively more susceptible to threats e.g. mobile phones .

In accordance with one aspect of the invention it can be determined to disallow access that has been allowed allowed access . Consequently allowed access can be disallowed. In other words permission to access a component can be effectively withdrawn even though access may be on going. This means that a granted access privilege of a first component e.g. an application program to a second accessible component e.g. a system resource may be effectively terminated. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention one or more disallow access conditions or criteria can be considered in determining whether to disallow allowed access. Generally a disallow access condition rule and or policy can be an access condition or criteria or defined based on an access condition. It will be appreciated that a disallow access condition can be explicitly defined and or can be different that an allow access condition used to determine whether to grant permission to access. However a set of general access condition can effectively serve as both allow access and disallow access where for example violation of an allow access condition can result in disallowance of access. In another embodiment after permission to access a component has been allowed one or more disallow access conditions or events can be effectively monitored in order to determine whether to withdraw the permission to access the component. As a result allowed access to the component can be disallowed.

In accordance with a related aspect of the invention allowed access to a component of a computing environment and or computing system can be disallowed based on one or more states. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a state can for example be associated with a computing environment and or computing system e.g. a system state an application state and can include contextual information e.g. system internal and or external context . As such one or more states can effectively define a situation in which a computing device is used and or a situation in which access occurs e.g. time of the day a particular geographical location number of connections used by an application . One or more states can be effectively used as a condition rule or policy to disallow access e.g. disallow access in the mornings outside of a particular building disallow access to more than one connection if network traffic is heavy .

In accordance with another aspect of the invention access can be allowed by effectively considering the behavior of a component in the aggregate and or over a determined amount of time. In other words access decisions especially with respect to disallowing access need not be made as atomic decision solely based on a factor at a given time. Rather access decisions can effectively be made based on measurements of one or more factors including one or more states over a determined amount of time e.g. an application session . This allows defining and enforcing useful and meaningful access policies and to some extent more useful and meaningful access rules and or conditions. By way of example a messaging application can be disallowed access to a communication port if the messaging application sends more messages than an acceptable limit during a session or in 4 hours. Generally access can be disallowed based on one or more criteria or factors that may be measured or captured over a period of time.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention disallow access policies rules and or conditions can be defined and modified. It will be appreciated that the disallow access policies rules and or conditions can for example be defined and modified for example by end users and system administrators allowing a customizable and flexible security environment that is more adaptable to change.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including for example a method an apparatus a computer readable and or storable medium and a computing system e.g. a computing device . A computer readable medium can for example include at least executable computer program code stored in a tangible form. Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

As noted in the background section mobile devices are becoming increasingly more popular. Today wireless networks and mobile communication devices e.g. Smartphones cell phones Personal Digital Assistants are especially popular. Unfortunately however partly because of this popularity more and more malicious attacks are being directed to wireless networks and mobile communication devices. In addition recent developments including relatively new services e.g. email file transfer and messaging and use of common software platforms e.g. Symbian Embedded Linux and Windows CE operating systems has made mobile communication devices relatively more exposed to malicious attacks. The exposure to malicious attacks could worsen as the wireless networks and mobile communication devices continue to evolve rapidly. Today wireless and or portable communication devices e.g. cell phones Smartphones can offer similar functionality as that more traditionally offered by Personal Computers PCs . As a result wireless and or portable communication devices are likely to face similar security problems e.g. worms viruses as those encountered in more traditional computing environments.

Examples of the most notorious threats to cell phones include the Skull Cabir and Mabir worms which have targeted the Symbian operating systems. Generally an MMS based worm can start attacking initial targets hit list from the network. Each infected phone can scan its contact list and randomly pick up members to deliver a malicious attack in the form of a message. A person can trust an incoming message due to its attractive title or seemingly familiar source and activate the attached file and unwittingly get a phone infected. The infected phone can in turn get other phones infected and so on. In contrast a Blue tooth based worm can take control of a victim phone s Blue tooth interface and continuously scan for other Blue tooth enabled phones within its range. Once a new target has been detected the worm can effectively connect to other devices and transfers a malicious message to them and so on.

Taking the cell phone as an example an active cell phone typically has two security states susceptible and infected. A susceptible cell phone is not completely protected against worms and may get infected when exposed to a specific worm e.g. CommWarrior . An infected cell phone can return back to the susceptible state when the user launches a protection e.g. the CommWarrior patch from F Secure or Symantec partly because the cell phone is susceptible to other worm threats. Malware has many other undesirable affects including compromising the privacy of the users.

Generally safety is a major concern of most modern computing environments including mobile computing environments. As such controlling access to various components e.g. resources executable code of a computing environment is crucial. However conventional access monitoring techniques including the prevalent reference monitoring techniques do not generally consider the state of the computing environment or the state associated with access and as such do not provide access control based on the situation or context in which access is requested. Moreover conventional reference monitoring techniques do not provide a mechanism to effectively control access to a resource after access has been granted access is either allowed or granted or denied. It should also be noted that flexible and customizable security environments that allow customization and are readily adaptable to change are not currently available.

In view of the foregoing improved techniques for controlling access in a computing environment would be useful.

It will be appreciated that the invention pertains to improved techniques for controlling access in a computing environment and or computing system. The techniques among other things can be used for reference monitoring in various computing systems e.g. computing device including those that may be relatively more susceptible to threats e.g. mobile phones .

In accordance with one aspect of the invention it can be determined to disallow access that has been allowed allowed access . Consequently allowed access can be disallowed. In other words permission to access a component can be effectively withdrawn even though access may be on going. This means that a granted access privilege of a first component e.g. an application program to a second accessible component e.g. a system resource may be effectively terminated. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention one or more disallow access conditions or criteria can be considered in determining whether to disallow allowed access. Generally a disallow access condition rule and or policy can be an access condition or criteria or defined based on an access condition. It will be appreciated that a disallow access condition can be explicitly defined and or can be different that an allow access condition used to determine whether to grant permission to access. However a set of general access condition can effectively serve as both allow access and disallow access where for example violation of an allow access condition can result in disallowance of access. In another embodiment after permission to access a component has been allowed one or more disallow access conditions or events can be effectively monitored in order to determine whether to withdraw the permission to access the component. As a result allowed access to the component can be disallowed.

In accordance with a related aspect of the invention allowed access to a component of a computing environment and or computing system can be disallowed based on one or more states. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a state can for example be associated with a computing environment and or computing system e.g. a system state an application state and can include contextual information e.g. system internal and or external context . As such one or more states can effectively define a situation in which a computing device is used and or a situation in which access occurs e.g. time of the day a particular geographical location number of connections used by an application . One or more states can be effectively used as a condition rule or policy to disallow access e.g. disallow access in the mornings outside of a particular building disallow access to more than one connection if network traffic is heavy .

In accordance with another aspect of the invention access can be allowed by effectively considering the behavior of a component in the aggregate and or over a determined amount of time. In other words access decisions especially with respect to disallowing access need not be made as atomic decision solely based on a factor at a given time. Rather access decisions can effectively be made based on measurements of one or more factors including one or more states over a determined amount of time e.g. an application session . This allows defining and enforcing useful and meaningful access policies and to some extent more useful and meaningful access rules and or conditions. By way of example a messaging application can be disallowed access to a communication port if the messaging application sends more messages than an acceptable limit during a session or in 4 hours. Generally access can be disallowed based on one or more criteria or factors that may be measured or captured over a period of time.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention disallow access policies rules and or conditions can be defined and modified. It will be appreciated that the disallow access policies rules and or conditions can for example by end users and system administrators allowing a customizable and flexible security environment that is more adaptable to change.

Embodiments of these aspects of the invention are discussed below with reference to . However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments.

It should be noted that the active access control system can for example be provided as a component of a computing system e.g. a computing device . As such the active access control system can for example be provided for a Personal Computer PC a mobile device a cell phone . As will be described below and appreciated by those skilled in the art the active access control system can for example be provided as a reference monitoring system or a reference monitor for a computing system and or computing environment.

As noted above the active access control system can be operable to control access to an accessible component . More particularly the active access control system can effectively provide an active access monitor e.g. a reference monitor or reference monitoring system or component that is operable to disallow access to the accessible component . The active access monitor can be operable to determine whether one or more disallow access conditions are met after access to the accessible component has been allowed. In other words the active access monitor can be operable to effectively withdraw permission to access the accessible component which may have been granted to the first component by the active access monitor and or another system or component not shown .

Typically the active access monitor can also be operable to effectively determine whether to allow the first component to access the accessible component . In other words the active access monitor can be operable to first determine whether to allow the first component to access the accessible component based on one or more allow access conditions that can for example be provided as allow access data as well as being operable to withdraw the permission to access the accessible component .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that an allow access and a disallow access condition can be effectively the same condition policy rules event and so on. In other words an allow access condition can for example be defined as allow access if condition X is met . In this example a disallow access condition can be implicitly defined as disallow access if condition X is not true any more . However generally disallow access conditions can be independent and or independently defined from allow access conditions. As such a disallow access condition can for example be defined as disallow access if condition Y is met or if condition X and Y or X and or Y are met . Therefore a disallow access condition can for example be met when one or more access conditions policies and or rules are effectively violated. More generally a disallow access condition can be defined based on one or more allow access conditions policies and or rules for allowing access to the accessible component .

However a disallow access condition can be different than one or more allow access conditions defined for the same accessible component . More generally a disallow access condition can be explicitly defined for disallowing access to accessible components including the accessible component individually in groups or as a whole.

The active access monitor can be operable to effectively monitor one or more access conditions e.g. allow access condition disallow access condition in order to determine whether to effectively withdraw the grant of permission to access the one or more accessible components. For clarity such access conditions are referred to as disallow access conditions . But it should be apparent that they can be an access condition. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that a disallow access condition can for example be defined based on one or more variables associated with the computing environment . Moreover a variable can include a state variable associated with a state of the computing environment as will be described in greater detail below. Furthermore it will be appreciated that the active access control system can receive input for defining access conditions including disallow access conditions. The input can explicitly and or implicitly define a disallow access condition.

The active access monitor can for example be operable to effectively detect a change in the value of one or more variables used to define an access condition e.g. a disallow access condition after access to the accessible component has been allowed. By way of example if an access condition is defined to allow access if a variable X e.g. a current location is within a determined range e.g. within one mile radius of a determined geographical location after access to accessible component has been granted the active access monitor can detect a change in variable X e.g. a change in current location and consequently evaluate or reevaluate the access condition in order to determine whether to effectively withdraw the permission to access the accessible component . In this example a disallow access condition may for example be defined to disallow access after 5 pm. Consequently permission to access may be disallowed even if the current location has not changed and it still acceptable.

The active access monitor can be operable to compare the current values of one or more variables including state variables of the computing environment to a set of acceptable and or unacceptable values in order to allow and or disallow access to the accessible component .

In general the active access monitor can actively monitor and maintain active access data in order to determine whether to effectively withdraw permission to access the accessible component . It should be noted that the first and second components and can be operating on the same device and or operating in the same device as the active access control system . However the active access control system can operate on or as a different system or device to effectively control access to an accessible component provided for another system or device. As such the first component may be operating on a different system or device than the systems or devices where the active access control system and or the accessible component operate.

After current access data has been determined it is determined whether access to the component has been disallowed or ended. Referring back to access can end for example as a result of the accessing component and or the accessible component being no longer operable and or active e.g. not executing . If it is determined access to the component has been disallowed or ended the method ends. However if it is determined that access to the component has not been disallowed and has not ended the method proceeds to determine current access data for the component. In effect the method can keep monitoring and or updating access data including disallow access data so long as access has not ended or has not been disallowed thereby effectively monitoring access to the component actively or continually after access has been allowed. Moreover the current access data can be used to determine whether to disallow access that has been allowed to a component thereby allowing access to the component to be actively or continually controlled.

To further elaborate depicts a method for actively controlling access to a component accessible component of a computing system and or computing environment. The method can for example be performed by the active access monitor depicted in . Referring to initially current access data for a component that can be accessed accessible component is obtained after access to the accessible component has been allowed. It should be noted that the current access data can effectively indicate to disallow or whether to disallow access that has been allowed or granted to the component. The current access data can for example be maintained in an active manner after access has been allowed to the component in a similar manner as the method depicted in . Referring back to after the current access data has been obtained allowed access can be disallowed as effectively indicated by the current access data. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that methods and respectively depicted in can be combined and or effectively performed by a single component or system e.g. active access monitor depicted in .

On the other hand if it is determined that a disallow access condition has not been met it is determined whether to effectively end the monitoring of the disallow access condition s . By way of example it can be determined whether the component that has been allowed access or accessing component is no longer active and thus incapable of accessing the accessible component and or whether the accessible component is on longer active and or inaccessible. If it is determined to end monitoring of the one or more conditions for disallowing access disallow access condition the method ends. However if it is determined not to end monitoring of the one or more conditions for disallowing access the method proceeds to determine whether the disallow access condition has been met for disallowing access to the one or more accessible components. In effect method can continue to monitor one or more conditions for disallowing access and reevaluate one or more disallow access conditions policies and or rules to determine whether to disallow access to the one or more accessible components.

As noted above the active access monitor depicted in can for example include a reference monitoring system or a reference monitor in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. In addition a disallow access condition can include and or be based on one or more state variables associated with a computing system and or computing environment.

To further elaborate depicts an active state aware reference monitor in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Referring to a state based access policy manager is operable to effectively control access to one or more accessible components . The accessible components can for example be one or more resources including an operating system as will be known to those skilled in the art. One or more components can effectively attempt and or request to access one or more of the accessible components . By way of example one or more component can be one or more application programs or applications attempting to access one or more files connections and or services of a computing device by making one or more system calls provided by an operating system operating on the computing device e.g. a PC a cell phone .

The state based access policy manager is operable to allow a component to access a component . Moreover the state based access policy manager is operable to disallow access to the component after access has been allowed even though the component may still be active and or still accessing or trying to access the component . It will also be appreciated that the state based access policy manager can effectively make decisions regarding allowance and or disallowance of access based on one or more state based conditions policies and or rules stored as state configuration . Generally a state based condition policy and or rule can include and or be effectively defined based on one or more state variable associated with a computing environment and or computing system. A state monitor can effectively monitor the state variables and provide the state based access policy manager with the current value of the variables to effectively allow the state based access policy manager to make informed decisions regarding allowance and or disallowance of access based on one or more state variables associated with one or more conditions policies and or rules defined for allowance and or disallowance of access to one or more components . It should be noted that the conditions policies and or rules can be effectively defined based on input provided by a person who can interact with a User Interface UI in order to explicitly and or implicitly define one state based access rule. It should also be noted that the state based access policy manager and the state monitor can collectively and effectively monitor one or more state based conditions policies and or rules including a state based disallow access condition policy and or rule defined for disallowing access to one or more components . This monitoring can for example be performed when a component is accessing one or more of the accessible components when the component is executing and or is active and when the component is not requesting to access the one or more components . Determining whether a disallow access condition is met or has been met can be based on determining whether state access data or state data has been modified after permission to access an accessible components has been granted thereby allowing access to be actively controlled. State data can for example be stored with the state configuration or separately as state data as depicted in . By way of example state data stored as state configuration can include stored state of a state variable when access was allowed. The state configuration data can define an acceptable range for the state variable change. A change of value of the state variable with respect to the stored value can result in determining whether the current value of the state variable is within the acceptable range. A state variable can for example be a current geographical location of a computing device. The current geographical location can be effectively monitored by the state monitor . If change in the location is detected after access has been allowed then a disallow access condition or rule can be effectively evaluated in order to determine whether to disallow access to a resource even though access may be on going. As such access to a resource can for example be disallowed when the state monitor detects a change in a geographical location which is beyond an acceptable range defined by an access condition policy or rule. Generally the state based access policy manager and state monitor can collectively and effectively monitor access to one or more accessible components after access to them has been granted. The monitoring can include monitoring one or more access states including one or more access state variables and or parameters associated with a computing environment and or computing device. Access state data or state data can for example include one or more of the following component data associated with one or more accessible components and or one or more components one or more component states associated with states of the components and or the accessible components contextual data associated with one or more contextual variables of a computing environment and or computing system. Internal contextual data associated with one or more internal contextual variables that are internal to a computing environment and or computing system and external contextual data associated with one or more external contextual variables that are external to a computing environment and or computing system. Contextual data and or a contextual variable can for example be determined based on one or more internal and or usable components of a computing system one or more internal factors and or elements which are internal or external to a computing system an environmental factor and or element an environmental factor and or element associated with one or more humans interacting with one or more active applications on said computing system environmental context of use associated with an environment of one or more humans as they interact with one or more active applications on a computing system a geographical and or physical factor and or element time date location mode mode of operation condition event speed and or acceleration of movement power and or force.

It should also be noted that the state based access policy manager can be operable to obtain e.g. retrieve receive determine one or more state based access conditions policies and or rules from the state configuration and or another source not shown to disallow access to one or more accessible components .

Generally the one or more state variables that are effectively monitored can pertain to one or more disallow access rules policies and or conditions. The rules policies and or conditions can be the same or similar to the rules policies and or conditions defined for allowing access. As such the one or more state variables being monitored can be the same state variables used to evaluate whether to permit access to the accessible component in the first place. By way of example the same geographical location used to determine whether to allow access to an accessible component can be monitored in order to detect an effective violation of an access rule such as moving a computing device outside a determined acceptable geographical area. However it should be noted that monitoring of the state variables can additionally or in the alternative include monitoring a completely different set of state variables including for example time network traffic number of network connections being used in general or used by a specific accessing component and so on. Referring back to the current values of the one or more state variables are obtained . Thereafter based on the current values of the one or more state variables it is determined whether to effectively withdraw the permission to access the accessible component . By way of example one or more state based rules defining the initial access condition can be reevaluated based on the current values of the one or more state variables. This reevaluation can for example be performed when a change in the value of a monitored state variable is detected with respect to a stored value e.g. a value stored when access was initially granted . If it is determined to effectively withdraw the permission to access the accessible component the permission to access the accessible component can be effectively withdrawn to prevent the first component from further accessing the accessible component and the method ends.

On the other hand if it is determined not to withdraw the permission to access the accessible component it can effectively be determined whether permission to access has terminated normally. The permission to access can be terminated normally or end for example when the first component is no longer active e.g. not executing and or the accessible component is no longer accessible. If it is determined that the permission to access has terminated normally monitoring of the one or more state variables and the method can both end. However if it is determined that the permission to access the accessible component has not terminated normally the current values of the one or more state variables is obtained and it is determined whether to withdraw the permission to access the accessible component. In effect the method can continue to monitor the one or more state variables needed to determine whether to disallow access of the components until it is determined to withdraw the permission to access or it is determined that permission to access has terminated normally.

As noted above an active state monitor depicted in can be a reference monitoring system or a reference monitor. depicts a reference monitoring architecture compatible with the techniques of the invention. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that various access control or reference monitoring techniques can be utilized in accordance with the invention as no assumptions need to be made regarding the specific architecture or techniques used for providing access control or reference.

Furthermore those skilled in the art will readily know and appreciate that a state aware reference monitor can for example be provided as a component of an Operating System OS e.g. SELinux and or Middleware e.g. Java Virtual Machine JVM in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. The state aware reference monitor can for example effectively determine whether to allow a process or an application to access one or more specific objects e.g. files network connections devices as well as effectively determining whether to allow the process or application to access general system resources via for example a system call or an Application Programming Interface API .

Moreover a state aware reference monitor provided in accordance with the invention need not merely enforce rules and or policies defined based on static labels or static permissions but it can effectively check the permitted permissions actively or on a continued basis to ensure that an access policy has not been violated and or enforce disallowance rules or policies.

Unlike conventional techniques access decisions need not be made solely based on an access request or on a request by request basis where there may not be an effective way to control access after it had been granted even though there may be critical state changes. Rather access decisions can also be made based on monitoring various states of a computing device and or computing environment to actively or continually control access.

In other words access or security decisions need not made only at the access request point but they can be made after access is or has been granted to among other things support a session aware access control mechanism that can make access decision based the effective behavior of an accessing component during a determined time or session . This behavior can be measured based on various state variables. For example the number of network connections used and or traffic generated by an application in a given period of time can be considered and access to various networking resource can be effectively withdrawn if the number of network connections or traffic generated is deemed unacceptable. In addition to disallowing access the execution of an application may be terminated if its behavior measured based on one or more state conditions or variables are not deemed acceptable.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that various kinds and forms of system states and application states can be considered. Furthermore the states state based rules state based conditions and or state based policies can be defined and configured by end users on an individual basis as a group or as a whole for example by a system administrator allowing customization of the security requirements for individuals groups and so on. It should be noted that the states state based rules state based conditions and or state based policies can for example be changed modified and or updated by end users and or administrators providing the ability to adapt to change in flexible and customizable security environment.

Still further it will be appreciated that numerous other advantages can be realized. As an example fine grained control of application behavior can be realized by for example providing context aware and or location aware security in contrast to conventional reference monitoring systems including for example the Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP security framework in J2ME. As generally known in the art MIDP is a specification published for the use of Java on embedded devices such as mobile phones and PDAs. MIDP is part of the Java Platform Micro Edition Java ME framework and can use a Connected Limited Device Configuration a set of lower level programming interfaces. As another example an ongoing communication can be effectively terminated if a state based security condition rule or policy is violated. As yet another example use of a resource or resource usage can be controlled to for example effectively control network bandwidth used by a particular application.

As still another example a storage source e.g. persistent storage can be shared between applications in a controlled manner based on one or more states state based rules state based conditions and or state based policies. In particular this controlled sharing can effectively isolate persistent storages to address more recent threats to security of computing devices as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

In contrast to conventional techniques reference monitoring need not be solely dependent and end solely based on atomic permission checks e.g. send or do not send a SMS or MMS allow or do not allow a phone call to be made allow or do not allow UMTS connection or TCP connection . Such atomic checks do not rely on application history that can be captured with respect to various states e.g. total network traffic used in a day maximum number of MMS messages sent this week . It will be appreciated that application history can be considered and effectively used to make access decisions including disallowing access based on one or more states in accordance with the invention.

In addition states being considered in making these access decisions can include contextual information. The contextual information can for example be used for location based rules e.g. access allowed only with a particular geographical range or access disallowed inside or outside of a geographical range time based rules e.g. disallow a game application from sending SMS during peak time system based rules e.g. can only access UMTS while or so long as no other concurrent connections are made .

The techniques of invention among other things can extend the J2ME security model and architecture to provide a state aware security policy as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. To further elaborate depicts J2ME complaint computing environment in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Referring to one or more Java programs for embedded devices machine MIDIet s can be supported by a K virtual machine KVM . As generally known in the art a KVM can be a virtual machine developed by Sun Microsystems derived from the Java virtual machine JVM specification. Typically a KVN is provided for smaller and or embedded devices and supports a subset of the features of the JVM. A state based security check component can effectively enforce state based access including disallow access policies conditions and or rules stored in the state configuration . The state based security check component can effectively enforce state based access policies conditions and or rules based on the monitoring of the states or state variables performed by the state monitor .

An access policy manager or policy manager can be effectively used to define and modify access policies conditions and or rules. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the state based security check component state configuration state monitor and policy manager can for example be provided as new classes in the framework of the J2ME.

More particular in addition to a MIDP permission domain check a SecurityToken class can invoke a state based security check querying the current runtime state of a MIdIet .

The state monitor can obtain application and system information pertaining to various state and runs a state transition logic e.g. a Finite State Machine FSM . The state based security check can query the state information and based on an access policy condition and or rule to make a state based access decision. This state based access decision can be effectively combined with a MIDP permission check such that access can be allowed if both the state based access decision and MIDP permission check allow it.

The policy manager can provide an interface for user and or service provider to allow defining various states associated with the Midlets . By way of example states can be monitored and reported based equipped sensors overall system state the resource usage status of the a MIdIet and so on.

The various aspects features embodiments or implementations of the invention described above can be used alone or in various combinations. The many features and advantages of the present invention are apparent from the written description and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art the invention should not be limited to the exact construction and operation as illustrated and described. Hence all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to as falling within the scope of the invention.

