---

title: Acoustic echo suppression
abstract: Sound signals captured by a microphone are adjusted to provide improved sound quality. More particularly, an Acoustic Echo Reduction system which performs a first stage of echo reduction (e.g., acoustic echo cancellation) on a received signal is configured to perform a second stage of echo reduction (e.g., acoustic echo suppression) by segmenting the received signal into a plurality of frequency bins respectively comprised within a number of frames (e.g., 0.3 s to 0.5 s sound signal segments) for a given block. Data comprised within respective frequency bins is modeled according to a probability density function (e.g., Gaussian distribution). The probability of whether respective frequency bins comprise predominantly near-end signal or predominantly residual echo is calculated. The output of the acoustic echo suppression is computed as a product of the content of a frequency bin in a frame and the probability the frequency bin in a frame comprises predominantly near-end signal, thereby making near-end signals more prominent than residual echoes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08325909&OS=08325909&RS=08325909
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08325909
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
In recent history technology has allowed the world to become increasingly integrated and globalized. Many companies are now global entities comprising offices and manufacturing sites geographically dispersed throughout the world. People also are more likely than ever to change their residence multiple times during their lives. With such an integrated yet geographically diverse world people often need to communicate with others who are far away. In order to facilitate this communication teleconferencing and video conferencing are commonplace. Teleconferencing connects two or more parties over a network. The parties often rely upon a conferencing system that may include a microphone and a speaker. Video conferencing further includes a camera and a video monitor allowing the parties to converse while viewing video images of each other.

Teleconferencing and video conferencing systems both commonly suffer from the problem of acoustic echo which is a delayed and distorted version of an original sound reflected back to its source. Traditionally a system prone to acoustic echo problems includes a speaker microphone pair on both ends called the near end and the far end of the connection. When near end participants talk their voices are picked up by the near end microphone transmitted to the far end and presented as a sound signal via the far end speaker. The far end microphone will also pick up this sound signal directly or indirectly and the far end system will send it back to the near end. This causes the near end participants to hear a delayed and distorted version of their own speech which decreases the perceived audio quality.

Acoustic echo reduction AER systems are part of practically all speakerphone e.g. teleconferencing and or videoconferencing communication systems. Modern AER systems usually comprise a two phase process to reduce acoustic echo problems. An Acoustic Echo Canceller will perform a first stage of acoustic echo reduction e.g. Acoustic Echo Cancellation AEC resulting in a signal that has a remaining residual echo e.g. a portion of the original acoustic echo that could not be reduced . An Acoustic Echo Suppressor will perform a second stage of echo reduction e.g. Acoustic Echo Suppression AES to reduce the residual echo in the signal output from the Acoustic Echo Canceller thereby further improving the Echo Return Loss Enhancement ERLE of the AER system.

Although the problem of echo reduction has been described in the context of teleconferencing and video conferencing it will be appreciated that it can also occur whenever a speaker and microphone are configured to be in a closed loop.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein sound signals captured by a microphone are adjusted to provide an improvement in acoustic echo suppression of captured sound according to an algorithm. More particularly an Acoustic Echo Reduction system which performs a first stage of echo reduction e.g. acoustic echo cancellation on a received signal is configured to perform a second stage of echo reduction e.g. acoustic echo suppression by segmenting an incoming signal into a plurality of blocks and determining the probability of whether or not respective blocks are predominantly comprised of acoustic echo or near end signals.

Essentially after acoustic echo cancellation AEC has been performed an acoustic echo suppressor receives a signal comprising a residual echo e.g. an echo not removed by the AEC . The received signal is temporally segmented into a plurality of blocks respectively comprising a number of audio frames e.g. 0.01 s to 0.05 s sound signal segments for a plurality of frequency bins. Data e.g. the segmented received signal comprised within respective frequency bins is modeled according to an appropriate probability density function e.g. Gaussian distribution for each of two mutually exclusive cases first that a frequency bin in an audio frame frame comprises data that is mainly near end signals e.g. signals produced at the receiver s end and second that a frequency bin in a frame comprises data that is mainly residual echo e.g. echoes not removed by the AEC . The probability density functions are parameterized by unknown variables appropriate to the density functions chosen for the model and which constitute a vector of unknown parameters. These parameters need to be determined in order to compute a probability of the content of frequency bins in a frame corresponding to the respective hypotheses e.g. residual echo or near end signal . To this end a log likelihood function is formed using the vector of unknown parameters. The log likelihood function is enhanced e.g. optimized according to an algorithm e.g. an Expectation Maximization algorithm to determine the vector of unknown parameters. These parameters are then used to calculate the probabilities of respective cases. An output of the AES for each frequency bin in each frame is computed as a product of the content of the frequency bin for that frame and the probability that the frequency bin in that frame comprises predominantly near end signal thereby making contributions to the AES output from frequency bins with a high probability of comprising predominantly near end signal more prominent and contributions from frequency bins with a low probability of comprising predominantly near end signal less prominent. Consequently residual echo is decreased in the received signal resulting in an improved sound quality e.g. increase in ERLE increase in MOS .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

During a telephone conversation performed over a speakerphone a speaker s voice e.g. user s voice and sound output from the speakerphone e.g. voice of a person on the other end of the line can become mixed together as the sound output from the speakerphone and its echoes in the room e.g. off walls furniture etc. may be picked up by the microphone. This mixture of the speaker s voice and speakerphone output reduces the quality of the audio experience for the person on the other end of the line. To address this problem Acoustic Echo Reduction AER systems performing acoustic echo cancellation and acoustic echo suppression are present in many audio systems comprising a speaker and a microphone.

As provided herein an algorithm is set forth for improved acoustic echo suppression AES of a sound signal e.g. user voice and speakerphone signal received by a microphone. The algorithm temporally segments sound signals received from an Acoustic Echo Canceller and stores them in blocks e.g. memory blocks comprising data comprising multiple short audio frames e.g. 0.01 s to 0.1 s of sound signal for a plurality of frequency bins. For respective frequency bins data e.g. segmented sound signals comprised within respective blocks of a frequency bin is modeled to determine a source e.g. near end signal or residual echo of the sound signal based upon a probability density function e.g. Gaussian distribution . In particular a probability that a frequency bin in a frame is mainly comprised of near end signals e.g. signals produced at a receiver s end and a probability that the frequency bin comprises mainly residual echo e.g. echoes not removed by the Acoustic Echo Canceller are calculated. An output of the AES is computed from a product of the content of the frequency bin and the probability of the frequency bin comprising mainly a near end signal thereby reducing residual echo in the captured sound and improving overall captured sound quality e.g. improve Mean Opinion Score MOS and Echo Return Loss Enhancement ERLE .

The AER system of can be incorporated into a wide variety of electronic devices to provide improved echo reduction. For example a cellular phone comprising a transmission device could incorporate the AER system of for improved echo reduction while operating in a speakerphone mode. Similarly a video conferencing system comprising a visual display unit and a visual recording device could comprise the AER system of thereby providing a video conferencing system that offers increased Echo Return Loss Enhancement ERLE while providing a mean opinion score comparable to state of the art acoustic echo suppression systems without requiring a user to use a headset or telephone receiver. It will be appreciated that the inventors have contemplated use of the AER system of for use in a wide variety of applications.

While methods of this disclosure and refer to calculation of a probability for frequency bins in a frame it will be appreciated that the methods provided herein can also be used with various subsets of the data stored in blocks e.g. blocks frames . For example method may be performed on an entire block of data whereby respective blocks are identified as comprising predominantly near end signal. An AES output is calculated for each frequency bin k as the product of the content of that block for that frequency bin and the probability that the block for respective frequency bins comprises predominantly near end signal. In general analyzing smaller subsets of data will result in a finer analysis of the received signal and likely improved resulta. However the smaller the subset analyzed the more computationally demanding the method will be.

At the near end signal and a convolution of the far end signal z t and the room impulse response h t are captured by a microphone . In alternative embodiments a plurality of microphones arranged in varying geometric layouts may also capture the far end signal z t filtered by the room impulse response h t corresponding to the respective microphone e.g. where m denotes the microphone .

The captured signal e.g. the near end signal s t tilde over v t and the convolution of the far end signal and room impulse h t z t are converted from the time domain denoted as x t to the frequency domain denoted X f at . Conversion to the frequency domain can be performed using a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT or a Fast Fourier Transform FFT or Modulated Complex Lapped Transformation MCLT for example. Respective audio frames frames are converted to the frequency domain and presented as a vector of complex numbers with the same size e.g. number of elements as the number of samples. Each element of the vector is called a frequency bin.

At acoustic echo cancellation AEC is performed. In general frequency bins are independent of each other so that the AEC s processing and decisions for the k th frequency bin of the n th frame is based on the k th frequency bin of the current e.g. n th and several previous frames e.g. n 1 th n 2 th etc. in the block. For example each block may contain 5 10 consequent frames e.g. the current and several from the past . During processing all processing is done on the current frame n e.g. the current frame is processed the next frame arrives the oldest frame is dropped and the processing repeats on the block of same size . For respective frames AEC attempts to subtract the loudspeaker signal from the microphone signal e.g. by computing the transfer function of the loudspeaker . It will be appreciated that AEC can be performed according to a number of acoustic echo cancellation algorithms which fall outside of the scope of this disclosure. AEC reduces a portion of an acoustic echo but fails to reduce the entire acoustic echo. The portion of the acoustic echo remaining after AEC is called the residual or residual echo. Therefore the residual signal Y k n output from the AEC comprises the near end signal and the residual echo not suppressed by the AEC. The resultant frequency domain signals e.g. denoted as capital letters output from the AEC is circumflex over where k n is an estimate of the room impulse response from the Acoustic Echo Canceller k indicates a discrete frequency bin and n indicates a frame number. The X k n notation emphasizes a discrete per bin k per frame n processing applied in the short time frequency domain.

A probability that a residual signal is predominantly a residual echo or the near end signal is calculated by the Acoustic Echo Suppressor at . In one particular example an Expectation Maximization algorithm can be used in the calculation. In other examples alternative statistical algorithms can be used to determine the unknown parameter vector parameterizing the probability density functions. Frames e.g. obtained by a single transform of a set of audio samples into the frequency domain comprising a residual signal are received from the Acoustic Echo Canceller and stored in blocks e.g. sets of frames . A probability that respective subsets of a block e.g. a block or a frame comprise predominantly near end or residual echo may be calculated separately per frame or per block. The probabilities that a frequency bin from the current frame comprises data that is either predominantly a residual echo or predominantly a near end signal are mutually exclusive of each other and therefore if a probability of a frequency bin from the current frame comprising predominantly residual echo is increased a probability of a frequency bin from the current frame comprising predominantly near end voice is decreased. Moreover any increase in overall near end signal decreases the impact of overall residual echo for a signal output from the Acoustic Echo Suppressor.

At an output of acoustic echo suppression AES is computed. A particular signal output from the AES is computed separately for respective frequency bins k of blocks b. For respective frequency bins in a frame an output of the AES can be equal to the signal stored in that frequency bin multiplied by the probability that a frequency bin from the current frame comprises predominantly signals from the near end. For example an output of AES k can be written as where P is a probability that a signal received in a k th frequency bin of the current frame n is a near end signal and Y k is the residual signal in the frequency domain stored in a k th frequency bin of the current frame n of block b where n denotes the current frame and N the total number of frames in a block . This method of AES reduces the impact of frequency bins that have a low probability of comprising predominantly near end signals e.g. reduces the impact of frequency bins in a frame having a high probability of comprising predominantly residual echo relative to the impact of frequency bins in a frame that have a high probability of comprising predominantly near end signals for the signal output from the Acoustic Echo Suppressor k . Therefore the signal output from the Acoustic Echo Suppressor k has a reduced residual echo and improved overall sound quality e.g. improved Mean Opinion Score MOS and or Echo Return Loss Enhancement ERLE . Once a given audio frame is processed through AEC and AES it is converted back to the time domain and an output waveform is synthesized.

At signals received from the Acoustic Echo Canceller are stored in blocks. Respective blocks comprise data corresponding to residual signals of a particular frequency received during a time period of N frames e.g. 0.01 s to 0.05 s segments of received signal . There is usually a 10 to 20 ms delay between frames for example. illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary Acoustic Echo Suppressor data structure of a block of audio frames in frequency domain. For respective frequency bins k the residual signal from the Acoustic Echo Canceller may be stored in blocks comprising N frames . For example for a frequency bin k a block b comprising N frames may be written as . . . 1 1 where b is a block number k is a frequency bin and N is a frame number. The first frame of a frequency bin k will comprise a signal Y k bN while the Nth frame will comprise a signal Y k b 1 N 1 . The residual signal is processed in a manner that considers one block at a time.

At a probability that a residual signal received from the Acoustic Echo Canceller comprises predominantly a residual echo e.g. the output of the loud speaker that wasn t suppressed by the AEC or predominantly a near end signal e.g. near end signal and near end noise is modeled as realizations of a stochastic process with defined probability density functions for respective frames n of respective frequency bins k. Since the residual signal can be estimated as realizations of random variables the probability of observing a signal Y n given a far end signal Z n can be calculated as the sum of a probability of a residual signal comprising predominantly a residual echo and a probability of a residual signal comprising predominantly a near end signal where the frequency bin index k has been dropped for convenience as all subsequent processing is done independently for each frequency bin . The probability of the received signal comprising predominantly a residual echo or predominantly a near end signal can also further modeled as a probability density function comprising one or more unknown parameters. In one particular example the probability density function can be a Gaussian distribution and can give a near end signal probability of p Y n Z n 0 where Hdenotes the hypothesis that the frequency bin comprises predominantly near end signal Z n Z bN n L . . . Z bN n is the far end signal and is the unknown parameter. Similarly a Gaussian distribution can be used to give a residual echo probability of p Y n Z n WZ n where Hdenotes a residual echo Z n Z bN n L . . . Z bN n is the far end signal is an unknown parameter and W is a vector comprising regression coefficients.

At a vector comprising unknown parameters unknown parameter vector is formed. The unknown parameter vector comprises inter alia the probability of a frequency bin in a frame comprising predominantly residual echo P H the probability of a frequency bin in a frame comprising predominantly near end signal P H the unknown parameters and and the vector W comprising regression coefficients.

At the parameters comprising the unknown parameter vector are determined. In one particular example illustrated in the unknown parameter vector may be determined using an Expectation Maximization algorithm for respective frequency bins k and respective block b of N frames n. The Expectation Maximization algorithm solves a log likelihood function of the probability of observing a signal Y n given a far end signal Z n e.g. defined in act by the sum of the probability density functions using iterative process that finds the maximum likelihood estimates of the unknown parameters by alternating between performing an expectation step which computes an expectation of the likelihood by including latent variables as if they were observed and a maximization step which computes the maximum likelihood estimates of the unknown parameters by maximizing the expected likelihood found during the expectation step. The parameters found on the maximization step are then used to begin another estimation step and the process can be repeated until the unknown parameters are determined.

At the probability of a frequency bin in a frame comprising predominantly a near end signal as determined by the unknown parameters is multiplied by the content of the associated frequency bin e.g. unknown parameters are applied to perform act in thereby producing an output from the Acoustic Echo Suppressor with a reduced residual echo and a higher perceptive sound quality than produced by the AEC alone.

At an unknown parameter vector comprising unknown parameters is formed. The unknown parameter vector comprises a probability of a frequency bin comprising predominantly residual echo P H a probability of a frequency bin comprising predominantly near end signal P H and unknown parameters that are determined to find the probability of observing a signal Y n given a far end signal Z n e.g. defined in act by the sum of the probability density functions . Formation of the unknown parameter vector comprising these unknown parameters allows a maximum likelihood function to be written such that the unknown parameters provide the greatest probability that given a far end signal Z n a signal Y n will be observed. The maximum likelihood calculation can be converted to a log likelihood function by algebraic manipulation thereby providing 

At an auxiliary equation of the log likelihood function is computed for use with the Expectation Maximization algorithm. The auxiliary equation provides a function of the estimate of the unknown parameter vector for respective iterations 

At the unknown parameter vector is estimated. The estimation is part of an iterative process wherein the estimation is a guess based upon the subsequent optimization e.g. maximization act . Initially the unknown parameter vector values can be a best guess by the user for example.

The auxiliary equation of the log likelihood function is optimized e.g. maximized and the unknown parameters are enhanced at . Maximization of the auxiliary equation can be performed by using various statistical algorithms e.g. expectation maximization . In one example an expectation maximization method subjects the auxiliary equation to the constraint that the sum of the probabilities of the frequency bin comprising predominantly near end noise or residual echo is equal to 1 e.g. P . Such a method will not be described herein as such optimization methods are beyond the inventive scope of this disclosure. Once the maximum values have been found the newly derived maximum values may be used as a guess of the unknown parameter vector for the next iteration l 1. Acts and may be repeated until sufficient enhancement of the unknown parameter vector is achieved. Acts and can be performed for respective frequency bins k and respective blocks b of N frames n.

At the probability P is multiplied by the content of an associated frequency bin Y k n e.g. estimated parameters are applied to perform act in to produce an output from the AES with a reduced residual echo and a higher perceptive sound quality than produced by the AEC alone.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system configured to improve the suppression of residual echo. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear form context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

