---

title: Methods and arrangements for enhancing power management systems in integrated circuits
abstract: Methods and arrangements to configure power management systems for integrated circuits are provided herein. A group of IC components that are functionally distinct or have mutually exclusive and/or quasi-mutually exclusive, (ME/QME) operating patterns (i.e. alternate or partially overlapping duty cycles) can be powered with a single power cell. An integrated circuit design tool can identified components in an integrated circuit design that have the ME/QME operating patterns. These cells can be collocated in close proximity to each other and power management system components can be placed in this area such that a multiple signal processing cells can share a single power line and a single power cell. Such a configuration can greatly reduce the size of a power management system for an integrated circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07835212&OS=07835212&RS=07835212
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07835212
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080409
---
Pursuant to 35 USC 120 this continuation application claims priority to and benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 352 699 entitled Methods and Arrangements for Enhancing Power Management Systems in Integrated Circuits filed on Feb. 13 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety for all purposes.

This Invention was made with Government support under NBCH3039004 BGR W0132280 PERCS II. THE GOVERNMENT HAS CERTAIN RIGHTS TO THIS INVENTION.

The present disclosure relates generally to computer added design tools and to power management systems for integrated circuits.

The performance of electronic equipment such as computers and communication devices continues to improve. Generally designers strive to decrease the size and power consumption of such equipment while increasing the speed and functionality of this equipment. Decreasing power consumption is a major technical issue facing the semiconductor industry. Two areas of power consumption that have been targeted by designers are losses due to device switching and losses associated with quiescent power consumption commonly referred to as leakage power. Curtailing leakage power plays an important role in the design process. Leakage power is emerging as a new critical challenge in the design of high performance integrated circuits IC s.

More specifically the portion of total power consumption of very large scale integration VLSI circuits that is caused by leakage currents is increasing dramatically as technology generations transition to processes that create smaller devices. This evolution is often referred to as technology scaling. Currently power dissipation created by device switching encompasses a significant portion of total power consumption for ICs while leakage power accounts for another significant portion of the overall power dissipation within ICs. Leakage power is particularly important during standby operation of battery powered handheld devices and densely populated devices that have heat related problems.

Technology scaling relies on the use of low threshold voltage switching devices such as transistors to increase chip densities where over a million transistors can be placed on an integrated circuit. Low threshold voltage switching devices are devices that generally can operate at lower supply voltages dissipate less power during switching and operate at higher switching speeds than traditional devices. A significant drawback to these low threshold voltage devices is the relatively large leakage currents. In fact as devices get smaller and smaller leakage currents increase at an exponential rate.

Leakage power is mainly comprised of gate and sub threshold leakage currents. Gate leakage involves current that tunnels through the gate oxide to the drain and or source of a transistor and sub threshold leakage refers to current that flows between the drain and source terminals when a signal at the controlling gate has the transistor turned off. As technology continues to reduce the size of these low threshold voltage devices leakage currents are expected to increase leakage power toward 40 to 50 of total power consumption making leakage power a dominant source of power consumption for many integrated circuits.

Most designers utilize computer aided design CAD tools to create new ICs that have reduced power consumption. These tools have design libraries that provide a defined set of circuits components commonly referred to as cells that are building blocks utilized to create an IC design. During the design process designers may select cells of varying functions shapes and sizes the library place the cells into location in a grid format and connect the cells to create the integrated circuit design. Each cell can provide specific circuit functions such as signal handling functions and when combined with other building blocks such a power system components the designer can create a functional system. In such a configuration power system components can be distributed throughout an IC. Common design tools include Physical Compiler from Synopsys and First Encounter by Cadence Inc. To address power consumption issues distributed power conservation systems have been incorporated into IC designs. Power conservation systems can control power delivery to portions of the IC when these portions are inactive. In particular contemporary power conservation systems comprise transistors that are integrated into the design of the IC as headers and footers to isolate sections of an IC from power sources when these sections are inactive. Power transistors can be configured either as a header on the supply side of the power delivery system or as a footer on the return side of the power delivery system i.e. between a ground plane and the cell . In some configurations both a header and footer are utilized to control power to a section of an IC.

However implementing such a system creates significant challenges and problems. One challenge involves integration of the transistors into the IC design without adversely affecting the operation of the IC and without exceeding the available space on the IC. In addition designers must determine when to turn sections of the IC on and off such that the speed of operation of the IC is not significantly impacted.

Another challenge is to design a power delivery system that does not result in increased power consumption. A typical power conservation system can require hundreds of power transistors i.e. headers and footers numerous control circuits and hundreds of power lines. The power conservation system can consume a significant amount of power and due to the area required by the power conservation system increase the average lengths of conductive lines in the IC. Increasing the average lengths of the lines not only increases power consumption of the IC but can slow down the speed of operations within the IC. Designers must also carefully locate components of such a bulky system to control interference and provide efficient operation of the IC.

In addition to locating the additional devices and lines there is a delicate balance between the area of the IC utilized for functionality and the area utilized by the power management system. Space on the IC is limited and the area utilized by the power management system is not available to efficiently implement functionality. Historically the actual benefits provided by power management systems are small when compared to the penalties incurred by implementing such a system.

Many electronic products or devices have functional systems on a single microchip or IC. This configuration is often referred to as a system on a chip SoC . A SoC may have circuits such as static random access memory SRAM registers branching logic multiplexers and decision logic that accept an input and create an output. Other circuits commonly found on microchips include pipeline circuits and a one hot property configuration where flip flops are chained in series and the one hot bit advances from flip flop to flip flop. In such configurations not all portions of the circuits operate concurrently during a specific time interval.

Additionally banks of SRAM cells may share a read path a write path and or control lines and such a configuration requires specific portions of SRAM to be inactive when other portions are active. Reducing current to the inactive banks of SRAM can significantly reduce power consumption within an IC. This active inactive dichotomy also occurs in register files multiplexers and branching logic.

The problems identified above are in large part addressed by methods and arrangements provided herein to enhance power management systems that provide sleep modes for subsystems of integrated circuits IC s. In accordance with the present disclosure a single power cell can deliver power to IC components that have mutually exclusive and or quasi mutually exclusive ME QME operating patterns. By design specific components of an IC do hot operate or process data concurrently and thus have a mutually exclusive operating pattern. A quasi mutually exclusive operating pattern occurs when components have concurrent operation for relatively short time periods i.e. overlaps in operational cycles but for the majority of the time do not operate concurrently. IC components having ME QME operating patterns can be identified grouped collocated and connected to a power cell in an integrated circuit design such that the power cell can reduce the power to inactive components in the group in response to their operating pattern. Such a shared power delivery system sharing a single power cell and power rail with multiple signal processing cells can greatly reduced the amount of components required to provide a sleep mode to components within the integrated circuit.

In one embodiment a first integrated circuit cell can be configured to be operable during a first time period and to be inactive during at least a portion of a second time period. A second integrated circuit cell can be configured to be inactive during at least a portion of the first time period and operable during the second time period. Thus a first cell is on during the first time period while the second cell will typically be off during the majority of this period. Likewise the second cell would be on during the second time period and the first cell would be off during the majority of the second time period. Such a ME QME operating pattern allows a smaller power cell to control power to the first and second cell and provides a power conservation system that is nearly half the size when compared to systems that has a dedicated power cell for both the first and second signal processing cell.

In another embodiment a power controller is provided to control the power cell and reduce the power supplied to the first integrated circuit component when it is inactive. The first component can be a static random access memory SRAM cell or bank of cells and the second component can be another SRAM cell or bank of cells where the banks can share read ports or write ports. Other components that commonly have ME QME operation and can share a power cell include groups of register cells branching circuits multiplexers and pipeline circuits.

A system is also provided where a first integrated circuit component and a second integrated circuit component operate at least partially during non overlapping time periods. A first power switch of the power cell is coupled to the first integrated circuit component to supply power to the first integrated circuit component and a second power switch of the power cell is adapted to supply power to the second integrated circuit component. As stated above a power control cell can provide control signals to the power cell in response to an operating pattern of the first integrated circuit component and the second integrated circuit component wherein the components can be SRAM registers branching logic and pipeline configurations.

In another embodiment a method is provided for designing an integrated circuit wherein integrated circuit components that have ME QME operating patterns are grouped and a power cell is sized and connected to the to grouped components in accordance with a set of design rules. After a design is created operation of the integrated circuit can be simulated and it can be determined if the design meets predetermined parameters. When the design does not meet such a criteria the design layout can be re configured.

In yet another embodiment a method for controlling power to components within a circuit is provided. A first integrated circuit component is powered during a first time period utilizing a first switch in a power cell and power supplied to the first integrated circuit component is suppressed during at least a portion of a second time period utilizing the first switch in the power cell. A second integrated circuit component is powered during a second time period utilizing a second switch in the power cell and power supplied to the second integrated circuit component is suppressed during at least a portion of the first time period utilizing a second switch of the power cell. As stated above the first and second integrated circuit component can be signal processing cell that operate in a ME QME manner.

The following is a detailed description of novel embodiments depicted in the accompanying drawings. The embodiments are in such detail as to clearly communicate the subject matter. However the amount of detail offered is not intended to limit anticipated variations of the described embodiments but on the contrary the claims and detailed description are to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives failing within the spirit and scope of the present teachings as defined by the appended claims. The detailed descriptions below are designed to make such embodiments understandable to a person having ordinary skill in the art.

In a specific embodiment of the present disclosure a design tool can identify components or signal processing cells SPCs in an integrated circuit design that operate in a functionally distinct manner and group such components. The functionally distinct operation can be a mutually exclusively and quasi mutually exclusively ME QME operating pattern where the components have alternate or partially overlapping duty cycles. The grouped SPCs can include components of an integrated circuit such as banks of SRAM multiplexers and or register files that share control lines and outputs. The process of identifying SPCs that have functionally distinct or ME QME operation can involve analyzing timing configurations logic flow configurations and or operating patterns of SPCs within the IC.

In one configuration five SPCs have a ME QME operating pattern a twenty percent duty cycle and have substantially similar peak power consumption. These five SPCs can share a single power cell and power line that is sized based on the power requirements of a single SPC in the group. This allows a single power cell to replace the five power cells of equal size that would be required in traditional designs.

During an IC design process a power cell can be placed in the area proximate to the collocated SPCs and interconnect with the SPCs. As a result a single power cell can supply power via virtual power lines or power rails to multiple SPCs. In some embodiments the designer or design tool may even locate the cells that operate ME QME in close proximity to power delivery resources to minimize lengths of lines. Additionally the group of identified SPCs may share power control components such as power rails power distribution lines control lines and power controller cells. Therefore in many embodiments the power management system components and interconnections may be greatly reduced.

Generally methods and arrangements for improving the performance of power management systems within an IC are provided herein. While specific embodiments will be described below with reference to particular circuit or logic configurations those of skill in the art will realize that embodiments may advantageously be implemented with other configurations.

Now turning to a block diagram of a data processing system that can be configured on an integrated circuit is illustrated. The data processing system can include a central processing unit CPU power supply a master clock a first bank of static random access memory SRAM a second bank of SRAM a first set of registry files a second set of registry files a first bank of transmission line drivers a second bank of transmission line drivers and a multiplexer . The CPU can have internal components that process data sequentially and form a pipeline configuration .

SRAM banks and multiplexer transmission line drivers and and registry files and are examples of components or building blocks that can be utilized to create an IC design. Such components are often referred to as cells however components may be formed from multiple cells and a single cell may have multiple grouped components. Components such as SRAMs and registry files and line drivers and process signals and are generically referred to herein as signal processing cells SPCs . A cell that processes data in an analog or digital format controls circuit operation or otherwise alters a signal in time space or value is also referred to herein as a SPC.

Power supply can supply regulated power to power cells and . Power cells and power rails can be shared by SPCs that have a ME QME operating pattern or are functionally distinct. SRAM bank or cell can be configured to be operable during a first time period and to be inactive during at least a portion of a second time period and SRAM bank or cell can be configured to be inactive during at least a portion of the first time period and operable during the second time period. A time period may be determined based on a read cycle or a write cycle.

In some configurations operational overlap or quasi mutually exclusive operation of SPCs may be required to avoid processing errors. Thus SRAM cell may be on during the first time period while SRAM cell will typically be off for the majority of this period. Likewise the SRAM cell would be on during the second time period and SRAM cell would be off during the majority of this time period. Thus components of an integrated circuit can operate at least partially during non overlapping time periods. Such a time staggered powering of cells with quasi mutually exclusive operation still allows a single compact power switch cell to provide power to multiple SPCs. When multiple SPC such as five SPCs can share a power cell the size of a distributed power conservation system can be reduced as much as four times from a traditional configuration.

In accordance with a specific embodiment SPCs that operate ME QME can be identified grouped arranged and located such that they can share at least one power management resource such as a power rail and power cell. As is illustrated power cells can be placed between circuits that have ME QME operating patterns such as between SRAM SRAM between register file components and within multiplexer cell and between transmission line driver components and .

The power cells can have a power transistors or switches that can switch and suppress the current provided to inactive cells. For SPCs with quasi mutually exclusive operating patterns more than one SPC in the identified group will require power during the operational overlap. Thus power cells can provide power to multiple SPCs in a group of SPCs that have quasi mutually exclusive operation or function concurrently for relatively short periods of time. Power can be supplied in a staggered fashion to SPCs having the overlapping duty cycles such that the average power supplied by a power cell is within capacity of the power cell.

Cells having ME QME operation can be identified in many ways. In a specific embodiment a design layout may dictate that during certain time intervals specific cells are active while other cells are inactive due to how signals flow through or are processed by an IC. In another embodiment it can be determined that when specific functions are occurring other possibly complementary functions are not being performed. In yet another embodiment timing diagrams can be utilized to identify when cells or groups of SPCs have ME QME operation.

ME QME operation of SPCs also occurs in configurations commonly referred to as pipeline configurations wherein one SPC passes its result s to a downstream SPC and the downstream SPC passes its result downstream and so on. Additionally ME QME operation nearly always occurs when the signal flow branches to one SPC leaving a complementary SPC idle. ME QME also phenomenon commonly occurs in a multiplexer.

Turning now to a configuration for an integrated circuit design layout having a grid architecture that provides a portion of a memory bank is provided. The layout illustrated has building block components or cells that are placed into a grid . The grid can be displayed to a user via a graphical user interface such as a grid provided by many integrated circuit design tools.

In accordance with many circuit design tools building block components such as cells circuits sub circuits devices function blocks cells or portions of cells can be placed in the grid by a designer. These building blocks of cells can perform a single function a partial function or multiple functions during operation. For example a cell could perform as a register a memory component a sub array a transmitter for a transmission line a multiplexer a buffer or a clock driver. Cells can be classified based upon the type of function they provide or the time frames within which they operate. Hundreds or even thousands of types of SCPs are typically available as building blocks for a designer.

In a portion of a design layout of an IC is provided in accordance with a distributed control resource sharing embodiment of the present disclosure. It can be appreciated that many cells within an integrated circuit are idle at any given time. Such a phenomenon gives rise to groups of SPCs that can be identified as having ME QME operation. As stated above some cells within the integrated circuit operate during a specific time interval while other cells due to operating patterns are inactive during this time interval.

Thus in a specific embodiment when it is determined possibly by combinational logic in a power cell that a SPC in a group of SPCs having ME QME operating patterns is processing data power cell such as powers can determine what cells are idle and suppress or control the power being supplied to the idle SPCs. When the operating patterns of SPCs have overlaps a single power cell can be sized such that it can simultaneously provide power to multiple SRAM banks for relatively short periods of time.

In cells having ME QME operation have been placed in a target area and components of the power management system such as power cells are shared between SPCs. SPCs and SPCs can be placed in the grid as provided by a graphical user interface of a computer aided design tool. SPCs generally have at least one signal input and at least one signal output. Numbered grid locations indicate areas in the grid where cells have been assigned to grid locations and un numbered areas indicate areas in the grid that are available for cell placement.

In a specific embodiment power control cell can control the operation of power cells and power cells via power feeds . In the embodiment illustrated SPCs and have been identified grouped and placed into target area due to their operating patterns. Power cell had been positioned proximate to SPCs and such that SPC and can be powered by power cell .

In the illustrated embodiment SPCs and can be interconnected to form at least a portion of a pipeline configuration wherein data is processed sequentially by SPCs. A signal can enter SPC be processed by SPC be sent downstream to SPC for processing and then be sent to SPC and so on. Thus ME QME operation can occur because generally when SPC is active SPCs and are idle and when SPC is active SPCs and are inactive.

Target area can be a location in an IC design that is selected for placement of SPCs and power cells based oh available space and efficient access to components of a power management system i.e. a power control cell and power line . SPCs having ME QME operation can be positioned in the target area and interconnected in response to a set of design rules. If SPCs being placed in the target area each have dedicated power cells these power cells can be integrated to form a single power cell. Integration of such cells can significantly reduce the size and overhead of a system required to manage power consumption in an integrated circuit.

In a specific embodiment the power control cell can control a plurality of power transistors within power cells . Power transistors are commonly referred to as headers or footers depending on their placement. Power control can be achieved based on signals from a master clock. In another embodiment each power cell can have logic that is connected to SPCs or a data bus and based on detected operation of at least one SPC the power cell can activate power to the appropriate SPC s . Further the power control system can incorporate combinational logic and sniff the activity of the SPCs while utilizing known operating patterns to control the power to specific SPC cells. Accordingly power can be provided to SPCs that are processing signals and power can be suppressed for SPCs that are not processing signals.

The configuration illustrated allows one power line to feed a plurality of power cells and and if necessary a single power control cell and control line to provide switched power to many SPCs. Only a small portion of an IC is illustrated and numerous power delivery configurations such as the one illustrated can be distributed throughout many locations of an IC. A numbering series has been implemented in wherein the last digit of the call out identifies cells that have similar operating functions. For example SPC of can be considered functionally similar to cell of of of of .

Referring to SPCs and are depicted in a configuration where SPCs and operate in a ME QME manner and share power cell . Similarly SPCs and operate in a ME QME manner and share cell . As discussed above because SPCs have a ME QME operating patterns SPCs can be moved in close proximity to one another and configured such that they share one or two power cells i.e. and . In the configuration depicted power cell can contain transistors that are switched to deliver power to SPC and in an alternating or time staggered manner.

A shared power cell such as power cell can have a first power transistor or header that is switched to feed SPC and a second power transistor that is switched to feed SPC according to their operating pattern. It can be appreciated that placing SPCs proximate to power cells and provides a configuration with a reduced overhead because in such embodiments it can eliminate power switches and power lines in existing designs.

Referring now to another embodiment for integrating the SPCs to provide the signal flow disclosed in is illustrated. In SPCs and and have been divided into two cells and power cells and has been integrated between the cells. As described above the signal can flow to either SPC or to SPC and when the signal flows through SPC it can exit SPC and flow either to SPC or to SPC .

SPC can operate in a ME QME manner with SPC and and SPCs can operate in a ME QME manner with SPCs and . Further SPC can operate in a ME QME manner with SPC and . Based on such an operating pattern SPCs and can share a single power cell. In the illustration two power cells and provide power to four SPCs i.e. and .

Referring to another embodiment of a power management layout having power resource sharing is provided. In SPCs and can have the same operating pattern described above and can be placed on the same row in a target area. Power cell can be placed between SPCs and power cell can be placed between SPCs and and power cell can be placed between SPCs and . Each SPC can share the adjacent power cell. The power cells can supply to SPC on either side of the SPC. The configuration illustrated is also effective when supplying switched power to a pipeline process where a signal is processed sequentially by SPC and respectively.

A control signal can be provided to the power cells and according to the operating sequence of SPC and . The row type embodiment illustrated in can provide an integrated circuit layout that is easy to control consumes less power and operates at faster clock speed due to the proximity of the devices. In other embodiments the linear placement of cells can be done vertically to increase the efficiency of the IC layout because bit lines and read write lines generally are placed vertically top to bottom of the page in a design.

Referring to another embodiment of a power management layout having power resource sharing is provided. In SPCs and can have the same operating pattern described above and can be placed on the same row in a target area. Power cell can be placed between SPCs and power cell can be placed between SPCs and and power cell can be placed between SPCs and . Each SPC can share the adjacent power cell. The power cells can supply to SPC on either side of the SPC. The configuration illustrated is also effective when supplying switched power to a pipeline process where a signal is processed sequentially by SPC and respectively.

A control signal can be provided to the power cells and according to the operating sequence of SPC and . The row type embodiment illustrated in can provide an integrated circuit layout that is easy to control consumes less power and operates at faster clock speed due to the proximity of the devices. In other embodiments the linear placement of cells can be done vertically to increase the efficiency of the IC layout because bit lines and read write lines generally are placed vertically top to bottom of the page in a design.

Referring to an exemplary method for implementing a power management system within an integrated circuit IC is provided. The method allows signal processing cells SPCs to share power resources within the IC. As stated above ICs can be configured by interconnecting thousands of building blocks or cells wherein each cell provides at least a portion of a function. As illustrated by block components or SPCs having ME QME operation are identified. SPCs having such operating patterns can be identified by locating pairs or groups of cells that do not operate concurrently and or do not operate concurrently for extended periods of time.

Identification of such SPC operation can be provided by a design tool wherein the design tool can identify the SPCs based on a set of rules and criteria. As described above the rules and criteria can include analyzing the functions provided by SPCs or operating patterns such as a pipeline configuration sequential processing and signal branching or by analyzing clocking or circuit timing including adjacent clock stages of an integrated circuit design.

As depicted by block a target area on the integrated circuit can be determined based upon where the SPCs and at least one power cell can be placed. Many criteria could be utilized to determine the target area including available space proximity with other interacting cells and proximity to power management components. To allow groups of cells to be placed in the target area relocation of previously placed cells may be required to clear a target area

As illustrated by block SPCs identified as having ME QME operation can be located or re located to the target area. Block depicts configuration of power management system components to address the requirements of the SPCs in the target area. At this stage analysis tools can be utilized to optimize multiple design parameters. For example a power cell that supplies a group of SPCs can be sized responsive to the SPC that has the highest power consumption. In other embodiments the power cell can be sized based on the peak or average power consumption required during an operational timing overlap of SPCs. Thus a power cell can be integrated with SPCs utilizing CAD based design tools and rules. Integrating can include selecting placing configuring and connecting the power cells with SPCs data busses power lines power busses or other components. The design tool can also ensure that the final design layout complies with a set or design rules for manufacturing and testing. These features can be provided by the design tool in an automated fashion or these operations could be manually selected or performed manually by a designer.

As illustrated by block after the SPCs are integrated into the target area many different analysis tools can be utilized to determine the quality or robustness of the design. A set of minimum performance manufacturability and testability guidelines can be known or predetermined. Accordingly results of an analysis of the design can be compared to these predetermined parameters. Specific parameters to be analyzed can include circuit timing and power consumption.

As illustrated in decision block the results of the analysis are compared against the predetermined design parameters. When the results of the analysis meet or exceed the predetermined parameters the process can end. On the other hand when the results of the analysis do not meet the predetermined parameters the configuration analyzed can be flagged as a non working configuration as is illustrated by block . Components of the non working configuration can be un grouped and the process can proceed to regroup components as illustrated by block .

The I O adapter is connected to and controls disk drives a printer removable storage devices as well as other standard and proprietary I O devices. The user interface adapter may be a specialized I O adapter. The adapter as illustrated is connected to a mouse and a keyboard . In addition the user interface adapter may be connected to other devices capable of providing various types of user control such as touch screen devices not shown .

The communications interface adapter is connected to abridge such as with a bridge for a local or a wide area network and a modem . By connecting the system bus to various communication devices external access to information can be obtained. The multimedia controller will generally include a video graphics controller capable of displaying images upon the monitor as well as providing audio to external components not illustrated . Generally the embodiments of the present disclosure can be used within system such as within the central processing unit to provide improved timing of control signal. Additionally a system such as system could be utilized to execute the method described herein.

Another embodiment is implemented as a program product for implementing a circuit design tool and a circuit simulation tool such as tools described with reference to . The program s of the program product defines functions of the embodiments including the methods described herein and can be contained on a variety of data and or signal bearing media. Illustrative data and or signal bearing media include but are not limited to i information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive ii alterable information stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive and iii information conveyed to a computer by a communications medium such as through a computer or telephone network including wireless communications. The latter embodiment specifically includes information downloaded from the Internet and other networks. Such data and or signal bearing media when carrying computer readable instructions that direct the functions represent embodiments.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments may be part of an operating system or a specific application component program cell object or sequence of instructions. The computer program of the present invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by a computer into a machine readable format and hence executable instructions. Also programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices. In addition various programs described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is used merely for convenience and thus embodiments should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that embodiments contemplate methods and arrangements to enhance a power management system of an IC. It is understood that the form of the embodiments shown and described in the detailed description and the drawings are to be taken merely as examples. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted broadly to embrace all the variations of the example embodiments disclosed.

Although the present disclosure and some of its advantages have been described in detail for some embodiments it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. Although specific embodiments may achieve multiple objectives not every embodiment falling within the scope of the attached claims will achieve every objective. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

