---

title: Gene expression and pain
abstract: The present invention relates to double-stranded oligonucleotides, pharmaceutical compositions thereof, and use of such double-stranded oligonucleotides and pharmaceutical compositions to modulate nociceptive signaling in a cell or prevent and/or treat pain in a patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07943591&OS=07943591&RS=07943591
owner: Adynxx, Inc.
number: 07943591
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080512
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 917 583 filed May 11 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The contents of the text file submitted electronically herewith are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety A computer readable format copy of the Sequence Listing of the Sequence Listing filename ADDY 001 01US SeqList ST25.txt date recorded Jul. 15 2008 file size 44 kilobytes .

The present invention relates to double stranded nucleic acids termed oligonucleotide decoys pharmaceutical compositions thereof and the use of such oligonucleotide decoys and pharmaceutical compositions to modulate nociceptive signaling and to prevent and or treat pain.

Pain may be defined as an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage or described in terms of such damage. Chronic pain afflicts 40 of the U.S. population and is associated with numerous deleterious medical conditions. Persistent and highly debilitating chronic pain is generally accompanied by weakness sleeplessness a lack of appetite irritability and depression. Over time the quality of life is profoundly affected and patients are often incapable of accomplishing the simple tasks of everyday life.

Currently used pain treatments apply a three step pain ladder which recommends the administration of drugs as follows non opioids e.g. aspirin acetaminophen etc. then as necessary mild opioids e.g. codeine and finally strong opioids e.g. morphine . Despite this arsenal of drugs over 50 of patients with chronic pain are not effectively treated.

The ineffectiveness of current pain treatments is inter alia due to significant toxicity issues with existing drug therapies. Mild to severe toxicity is induced by all classes of pain drugs non steroidal inflammatory drugs cause gastro intestinal damage coxibs are associated with heart failure and opioids are responsible for numerous side effects including respiratory depression sedation digestive malfunctions and addiction.

Transcription factors are important factors in multiple signaling pathways and frequently control the concurrent expression of numerous genes. Many transcription factors are involved in the regulation of the expression of genes that are involved in pain including but not limited to POU factors upstream stimulatory factors USF EGR1 cAMP response element binding protein activating transcription factors CREB ATF activating protein 1 AP1 serum response factor SRF promoter selective transcription factor SP1 and the runt related transcription factor 1 RUNX1 .

Thus there may be significant therapeutic potential in inhibiting transcription factors in order to monitor the expression of genes involved in pain. Accordingly what is needed are selective readily available non toxic transcription factor inhibitors.

The present invention satisfies these and other needs by providing oligonucleotide decoys e.g. double stranded oligonucleotides pharmaceutical compositions thereof and use of such oligonucleotide decoys and pharmaceutical compositions to modulate nociceptive signaling and to prevent and or treat pain. Generally the oligonucleotide decoys are transcription factor inhibitors.

In one aspect oligonucleotide decoys comprising one or more transcription factor binding sites are provided. In certain embodiments each transcription factor binding site binds to a transcription factor selected from the group consisting of POU1F1 POU2F POU3F POU4F1 POU5F1 USF EGR1 CREB ATF AP1 CEBP SRF ETS1 MEF2 SP1 RUNX NFAT ELK1 ternary complex factors STAT GATA1 ELF1 nuclear factor granulocyte macrophage a HNF1 ZFHX3 IRF TEAD1 TBP NFY caccc box binding factors KLF4 KLF7 IKZF MAF REST HSF KCNIP3 and PPAR transcription factors. In certain embodiments the transcription factor that binds to a transcription factor binding site is a human transcription factor. In other embodiments the transcription factor that binds to a transcription factor binding site is a non human transcription factor e.g. an avian mammal e.g. mouse rat dog cat horse cow etc. or primate transcription factor .

In a related aspect oligonucleotide decoys comprising two or more transcription factor binding sites are provided. In certain embodiments each transcription factor binding site binds to a transcription factor selected from the group consisting of POU1F1 POU2F POU3F POU5F1 USF EGR1 CREB ATF AP1 CEBP SRF ETS1 MEF2 SP1 RUNX NFAT ELK1 ternary complex factors STAT GATA1 ELF1 nuclear factor granulocyte macrophage a POU4F1 HNF1 ZFHX3 IRF TEAD1 TBP NFY caccc box binding factors KLF4 KLF7 IKZF MAF REST HSF KCNIP3 and PPAR transcription factors. In certain embodiments the relative position of the two transcription factor binding sites within the decoy modulates e.g. increases the binding affinity between a transcription factor and its transcription factor binding site as compared to the binding affinity between the transcription factor and a decoy having a single transcription factor binding site. In certain embodiments the relative position of the two transcription factor binding sites within the decoy promotes dimerization of transcription factors bound to the sites.

In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 40 42 45 and 47 53 or b a sequence having at least 50 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 40 42 45 and 47 53.

In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys can be provided as salts hydrates solvates or N oxides derivatives.

In another aspect pharmaceutical compositions comprising oligonucleotide decoys are provided. The pharmaceutical compositions generally comprise one or more oligonucleotide decoys and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle.

In another aspect methods for treating or preventing pain are provided. The methods generally involve administering to a patient in need of such treatment or prevention a therapeutically effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy of the invention or a pharmaceutical composition thereof.

In another aspect methods for modulating the transcription of a gene in a cell involved in nociceptive signaling such as a dorsal root ganglion and or spinal cord neuron are provided. The methods generally comprise administering to the cell an effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy.

In another aspect methods for modulating nociceptive signaling in a cell involved in nociceptive signaling such as a dorsal root ganglion and or spinal cord neuron are provided. The methods generally comprise administering to the cell an effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy.

In yet another aspect methods for monitoring the proteolytic degradation of proteins involved in nociceptive signaling in a cell are provided. The methods generally comprise administering to the cell an effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy.

 Binding as used in the context of transcription factors binding to oligonucleotide decoys refers to a direct interaction e.g. non covalent bonding between the transcription factor and oligonucleotide decoy including hydrogen bonding van der Waals bonding etc. between a transcription factor and an oligonucleotide decoy. Accordingly an oligonucleotide that does not bind to a transcription factor does not directly interact with said transcription factor.

 Compounds refers to double stranded oligonucleotides also referred to herein as oligonucleotide decoys. The compounds described herein may contain one or more chiral centers and or double bonds and therefore may exist as stereoisomers such as double bond isomers i.e. geometric isomers enantiomers or diastereomers. Accordingly the chemical structures depicted herein encompass all possible enantiomers and stereoisomers of the illustrated compounds including the stereoisomerically pure form e.g. geometrically pure enantiomerically pure or diastereomerically pure and enantiomeric and stereoisomeric mixtures. Enantiomeric and stereoisomeric mixtures can be resolved into their component enantiomers or stereoisomers using separation techniques or chiral synthesis techniques well known to the skilled artisan. Compounds may also exist in several tautomeric forms including the enol form the keto form and mixtures thereof. Accordingly the chemical structures depicted herein encompass all possible tautomeric forms of compounds. Compounds described herein also include isotopically labeled compounds where one or more atoms have an atomic mass different from the atomic mass conventionally found in nature. Examples of isotopes that may be incorporated into the compounds of the invention include but are not limited to H H C C C N O O etc. Compounds may exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms and as N oxides. In general compounds may be hydrated solvated or N oxides. Certain compounds may exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. All physical forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated herein. Further it should be understood when partial structures of the compounds are illustrated that brackets indicate the point of attachment of the partial structure to the rest of the molecule.

 Modulation of gene expression level refers to any change in gene expression level including an induction or activation e.g. an increase in gene expression an inhibition or suppression e.g. a decrease in gene expression or a stabilization e.g. prevention of the up regulation or down regulation of a gene that ordinarily occurs in response to a stimulus such as a pain inducing stimulus .

 Nociceptive signaling refers to molecular and cellular mechanisms involved in the detection of a noxious stimulus or of a potentially harmful stimulus which leads to the perception of pain including neurotransmitter synthesis and release neurotransmitter induced signaling membrane depolarization and related intra cellular and inter cellular signaling events.

 Oligonucleotide refers to any double stranded nucleic acid containing polymer generally less than approximately 200 nucleotides or 100 base pairs and including but not limited to DNA RNA and RNA DNA hybrids. The term encompasses sequences that include any of the known base analogs of DNA and RNA including but not limited to 2 6 diaminopurine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluracil dihydrouracil inosine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid N6 isopentenyladenine 1 methyladenine N uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 bromouracil methylphosphonate phosphorodithioate ormacetal 3 thioformacetal nitroxide backbone sulfone sulfamate morpholino derivatives locked nucleic acid LNA derivatives and or peptide nucleic acid PNA derivatives. In some embodiments the oligonucleotide is composed of two complementary single stranded oligonucleotides that are annealed together. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide is composed of one single stranded oligonucleotide that forms intramolecular base pairs to create a substantially double stranded structure.

 Pain refers to an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience that is associated with actual or potential tissue damage or described in such terms. All of the different manifestations and qualities of pain including mechanical pain e.g. induced by a mechanical stimulus or by body motion temperature induced pain e.g. pain induced by hot warm and or cold temperatures and chemically induced pain e.g. pain induced by a chemical . In certain embodiments pain is chronic sub chronic acute or sub acute. In certain embodiments pain features hyperalgesia i.e. an increased sensitivity to a painful stimulus and or allodynia i.e. a painful response to a usually non painful stimulus . In certain embodiments pain is pre existing in a patient. In other embodiments pain is iatrogenic induced in a patient e.g. post operative pain .

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt of a compound which possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound. Such salts include but are not limited to 1 acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or formed with organic acids such as acetic acid propionic acid hexanoic acid cyclopentanepropionic acid glycolic acid pyruvic acid lactic acid malonic acid succinic acid malic acid maleic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid 3 4 hydroxybenzoyl benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 1 2 ethane disulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid 4 chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid 4 toluenesulfonic acid camphorsulfonic acid 4 methylbicyclo 2.2.2 oct 2 ene 1 carboxylic acid glucoheptonic acid 3 phenylpropionic acid trimethylacetic acid tertiary butylacetic acid lauryl sulfuric acid gluconic acid glutamic acid hydroxynaphthoic acid salicylic acid stearic acid muconic acid and the like or 2 salts formed when an acidic proton present in the parent compound is replaced by a metal ion e.g. an alkali metal ion an alkaline earth ion or an aluminum ion or coordinates with an organic base such as ethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine N methylglucamine and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or carrier with which a compound of the invention is administered.

 Preventing or prevention refers to 1 a reduction in the risk of acquiring a disease or disorder e.g. causing at least one of the clinical symptoms of a disease not to develop in a patient that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease or 2 a reduction in the likely severity of a symptom associated with a disease or disorder e.g. reducing the likely severity of at least one of the clinical symptoms of a disease in a patient that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease .

 Treating or treatment of any disease or disorder refers in some embodiments to ameliorating the disease or disorder i.e. arresting or reducing the development of the disease or at least one of the clinical symptoms thereof . In other embodiments treating or treatment refers to ameliorating at least one physical parameter which may not be discernible by the patient. In yet other embodiments treating or treatment refers to inhibiting the disease or disorder either physically e.g. stabilization of a discernible symptom physiologically e.g. stabilization of a physical parameter or both. In yet other embodiments treating or treatment refers to delaying the onset of the disease or disorder.

 Therapeutically effective amount means the amount of a compound that when administered to a patient is sufficient to effect such treatment of a particular disease or condition. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the disease the severity of the disease and the age weight etc. of the patient to be treated.

Reference will now be made in detail to preferred embodiments of the invention. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to those preferred embodiments. To the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The present invention relates to oligonucleotide decoys pharmaceutical compositions thereof and use of such oligonucleotide decoys and pharmaceutical compositions to modulate nociceptive signaling and to prevent and or treat pain.

In certain embodiments the invention features oligonucleotide decoys comprising one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 etc. transcription factor binding sites. In related embodiments each transcription factor binding site binds to a transcription factor selected from the group consisting of POU1F1 POU2F POU3F POU4F1 POU5F1 USF EGR1 CREB ATF AP1 CEBP SRF ETS1 MEF2 SP1 RUNX NFAT ELK1 ternary complex factors STAT GATA1 ELF1 nuclear factor granulocyte macrophage a HNF1 ZFHX3 IRF TEAD1 TBP NFY caccc box binding factors KLF4 KLF7 IKZF MAF REST HSF KCNIP3 and PPAR transcription factors. In certain embodiments transcription factor binding sites bind to two or more members of a family of closely related transcription factors. Representative members of such transcription factor families can be selected from the group consisting of POU1F1 POU2F POU3F POU4F1 POU5F1 USF EGR1 CREB ATF AP1 CEBP SRF ETS1 MEF2 SP1 RUNX NFAT ELK1 ternary complex factors STAT GATA1 ELF1 nuclear factor granulocyte macrophage a HNF1 ZFHX3 IRF TEAD1 TBP NFY caccc box binding factors KLF4 KLF7 IKZF MAF REST HSF KCNIP3 and PPAR transcription factors. Thus in certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy that binds to e.g. EGR1 can also bind to one or more additional family members e.g. EGR2 EGR3 EGR4.

In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise two or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 etc. transcription factor binding sites. In related embodiments each transcription factor binding site binds to a transcription factor selected from the group consisting of POU1F1 POU2F POU3F POU4F1 POU5F1 USF EGR1 CREB ATF AP1 CEBP SRF ETS1 MEF2 SP1 RUNX NFAT ELK1 ternary complex factors STAT GATA1 ELF1 nuclear factor granulocyte macrophage a HNF1 ZFHX3 IRF TEAD1 TBP NFY caccc box binding factors KLF4 KLF7 IKZF MAF REST HSF KCNIP3 and PPAR transcription factors. In certain embodiments the relative position of the two or more transcription factor binding sites within the decoy modulates e.g. increases or decreases the binding affinity between a target transcription factor i.e. the transcription factor that a particular binding site is designed to bind to and its transcription factor binding site e.g. as compared to the binding affinity between the transcription factor and a decoy having a single transcription factor binding site e.g. a consensus binding site specific to the transcription factor. Thus the relative position of the two transcription factor binding sites within an oligonucleotide decoy of the invention can increase the affinity of the oligonucleotide decoy for a target transcription factor e.g. for one or more of the transcription factors targeted by the decoy . In certain embodiments the increase in affinity of the oligonucleotide decoy for a target transcription factor is 1.2 fold or greater e.g. about 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 3.0 fold or more . In certain embodiments the relative position of the two transcription factor binding sites within an oligonucleotide decoy promotes protein protein interactions between transcription factors bound to the sites e.g. homodimerization or heterodimerization of the transcription factors. In certain embodiments such protein protein interactions between transcription factors stablize their interactions e.g. binding to the oligonucleotide decoy thereby increasing the binding affinity of the oligonucleotide decoy for one or more of the target transcription factors. In certain embodiments a transcription factor that binds to a transcription factor binding site present in an oligonucleotide decoy is a human transcription factor. In other embodiments the transcription factor that binds to a transcription factor binding site in an oligonucleotide decoy is a non human e.g. an avian mammal e.g. mouse rat dog cat horse cow etc. or primate transcription factor.

In certain embodiments the transcription factor binding sites of an oligonucleotide decoy each bind to the same transcription factor e.g. EGR1. In other embodiments the transcription factor binding sites of an oligonucleotide decoy bind to different transcription factors e.g. different members of a closely related family of transcription factors e.g. different members of the EGR1 family or a combination of transcription factors selected from the group consisting of POU1F1 POU2F POU3F POU4F1 POU5F1 USF EGR1 CREB ATF AP1 CEBP SRF ETS1 MEF2 SP1 RUNX NFAT ELK1 ternary complex factors STAT GATA1 ELF1 nuclear factor granulocyte macrophage a HNF1 ZFHX3 IRF TEAD1 TBP NFY caccc box binding factors KLF4 KLF7 IKZF MAF REST HSF KCNIP3 and PPAR transcription factors.

In certain embodiments the transcription factor binding sites of an oligonucleotide decoy are separated from each other by a linker sequence. Linker sequences can be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more base pairs in length. Typically linker sequences will be two to five base pairs in length. In other embodiments the transcription factor binding sites can be immediately adjacent to one another e.g. no linker sequence is present or overlapping. In cases where the transcription factor binding sites are overlapping the transcription factor binding sites may share 1 2 3 4 5 or more base pairs. Alternatively one or both of the transcription factor binding sites may be lacking base pairs that otherwise form part of a consensus binding sequence for the transcription factor s that bind to the site. In general however base pairs that are critical to the binding interaction between a transcription factor binding site and the transcription factors that bind to the site e.g. base pairs that are essentially invariant in a consensus binding sequence for a particular transcription factor are not shared or missing when transcription binding sequences are overlapping.

In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprise flanking sequences located at each end of the decoy sequence. Flanking sequences can be 1 2 3 4 5 6 or more base pairs in length. In general flanking sequences are two to five base pairs in length. In preferred embodiments 5 flanking sequences starts with a G C base pair and 3 flanking sequences terminate in a G C base pair. In preferred embodiments flanking sequences do not form part of a transcription factor binding site and or do not interact with or bind to transcription factors. In other embodiments flanking sequences form weak interactions with transcription factors bound to an adjacent transcription factor binding site.

In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys are generally at least 10 11 12 13 14 15 or more base pairs in length. In related embodiments oligonucleotide decoys are generally less than 65 60 55 50 or 45 base pairs in length. In preferred embodiments oligonucleotide decoys are about 20 to 40 base pairs in length. In other embodiments oligonucleotide decoys are about 20 to 35 25 to 40 or 25 to 35 base pairs in length.

In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 40 42 45 and 47 53 or b a sequence having at least 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 40 42 45 and 47 53. In related embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 90 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 39 42 45 and 47 52. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 85 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 17 19 39 42 45 and 47 53. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 80 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 5 7 17 19 39 42 45 and 47 53. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 75 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 4 7 9 13 15 17 19 23 26 39 45 48 50 51 and 53. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 70 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 1 3 7 9 13 15 17 19 23 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 39 and 48. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 65 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 2 3 9 13 15 16 19 23 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 and 39. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 60 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 2 13 15 16 21 23 26 30 32 34 36 38 and 39. In still other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 55 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 16 23 30 32 34 35 38 and 39. In still other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys comprise a sequence having at least 50 identity with a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs. 30 32 35 and 38.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 1 5 SnnnnATDBNddnnnnnATD. . . BNHHnnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 86 1 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 1 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of d d n n n n and n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of d d n n n n and nhave at least 70 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 2 5 SnnnnnYCVYRNGnncvydb. . . gyCVYRBGRnnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 87 2 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 2 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or 9 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n c v y d b g and y. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n c v y d b g and yhave at least 60 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 2.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 3 5 SnnWWGSGKRGGMnnnwwwg. . . sgKRGGMDnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 88 3 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 3 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or 9 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n w w w g s and g.

In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n w w w g s and ghave at least 65 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 3.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 4 5 SnnnnnnTKASSbmnnTKAS. . . SBMNnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 89 4 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 4 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of b m n and n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of b m n and nhave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 4.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 5 5 SSnnnnTGASknhrrrrGAS. . . KNHrrnnnSS 3 SEQ ID NO. 90 5 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 5 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k n h r r r and t. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k n h r r r and thave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 5.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 6 5 SnnnnwwwGATTKTssaaks. . . ngATTKTCSAAKSnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 91 6 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 6 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s s a a k s n and g. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s s a a k s n and ghave at least 85 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 6.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 7 5 SnnnnnggatrtCCATATTA. . . GGagatnnnnwwsS 3 SEQ ID NO. 92 7 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 7 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 or 17 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of g g a t r t a g a t n n n n w wand s. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of g g a t r t a a a t n n n n w wand shave at least 70 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 7.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 8 5 SnnnnCAGGAdddddddddT. . . CCATATTAGnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 93 8 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 8 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or 9 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of d d d d d d d dand d. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of d d d d d d d dand dhave at least 70 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 8.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 9 5 SnnnnCTAWAMWTAAnnnnc. . . tAWAAATAAAAnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 94 9 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 9 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n Cand t. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n cand thave at least 65 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 9.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 10 5 nnnnRRGSCsKrrnnnrrGS. . . CKRRNnnnnn 3 SEQ ID NO. 95 10 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 10 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of r r n n n r and r. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n cand thave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 10.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 11 5 nnnnnGGCGGGGssssssss. . . sssCGGGCGGTTTAC 3 SEQ ID NO. 96 11 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 11 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or 11 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s s s s s s s s s s and s. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s s s s s s s s s s and shave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 11.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 12 5 SnnnnWGYGGtddddgWGYG. . . GTDDDDnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 97 12 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 12 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t h h h h and g. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t h h h h and ghave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 12.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 13 5 SnnnnTTGGGGTCATAnnnn. . . CACAGGAACCACAnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 98 13 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 13 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n nand nhave at least 60 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 13.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 14 5 SnnnnnCHGGAHRynnncCG. . . GAHRYnnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 99 14 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 14 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y n n nand c. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y n n nand chave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 14.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 15 5 SnnMWWGGAAAAnndwwgga. . . aaanndwGGAAAAnnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 100 15 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 15 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n d w w g g a a a a n n dand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n d w w g g a a a a n n dand whave at least 60 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 15.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 16 5 SnnnnnCACTTCC yvmnnny. . . vCTTCCTGCnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 101 16 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 16 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y v m n n n yand v. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y v m n n n yand vhave at least 55 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 16.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 17 5 SnnnnnCTATAAATggcctA. . . TAAATGggggggS 3 SEQ ID NO. 102 17 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 17 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of g g c cand t. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of g g c cand thave at least 70 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 17.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 18 5 SnnnnnnWWCGCGGwwggww. . . wCCGGWWnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 103 18 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 18 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w g g w wand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w g g w wand whave at least 90 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 18.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 19 5 SnnnTGCCTTATCTctnngg. . . GATAASnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 104 19 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 19 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of c t n n gand g. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of c t n n gand ghave at least 65 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 19.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 20 5 SnnnnnTGAATwwgaggaaa. . . awwGCATGCnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 105 20 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 20 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w g a g g a a a a wand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w g a g g a a a a wand whave at least 65 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 20.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 21 5 SnnnnGAGATTkcacnnnga. . . gatTKCACnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 106 21 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 21 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k c a c n n n g a g aand t. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k c a c n n n g a g aand thave at least 60 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 21.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 22 5 SnnnnKCMTWAWArmwnrmw. . . KCMTWAWTnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 107 22 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 22 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t r m w n r mand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t r m w n r mand whave at least 65 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 22.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 23 5 SnnnAGKYAADNDThhhnnn. . . hhHYAADNDTWVMtgc 3 SEQ ID NO. 108 23 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 23 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of h h h n n n hand h. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of h h h n n n hand hhave at least 55 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 23.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 24 5 SnnnnAATAAtnnatTATTw. . . wnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 109 24 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 24 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t n n aand t. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t n n aand thave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 24.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 25 5 SnnnSDHWMSHkwwmcssdh. . . wmshKWWMCSnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 110 25 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 25 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 or 13 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k w w m c s s d h w m sand h. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k w w m c s s d h w m sand hhave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 25.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 26 5 SnnnykgykGAAyhbbnnny. . . hbbkGAATATCnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 111 26 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 26 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y h b b n n n y h b band k. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y h b b n n n y h b band khave at least 60 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 26.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 27 5 SnnnTATAWwwnndntatAW. . . wwnnwWTAADWnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 112 27 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 27 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 or 14 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w n n d n t a t w w n n and w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w n n d n t a t w w n n and whave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 27.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 28 5 SnnnTATAAWWnnnnwwwAA. . . WWknnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 113 28 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 28 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n w wand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n w wand whave at least 65 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 28.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 29 5 NnnCTGMKYKKYtmbyCAAT. . . sdnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 114 29 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 29 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t m band y. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of t m band yhave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 29.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 30 5 SnnTCTCYGATTGGYyhybn. . . nnyyhhvGATTGGYTCBYnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 115 30 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 30 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y h y b n n n y y h hand v. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y h y b n n n y y h hand vhave at least 50 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 30.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 31 5 SnnCACCCsassswssswCA. . . CCCannnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 116 31 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 31 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s a s s s w s s sand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s a s s s w s s sand whave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 31.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 32 5 SnnCCTWTGCCTyyyyynnn. . . yyyyyGCCTCCTWSnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 117 32 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 32 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 or 13 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y y y y y n n n y y y yand y. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y y y y y n n n y y y yand yhave at least 50 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 32.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 33 5 SnnnWWWGGGwdgnnwwwGG. . . GWDGnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 118 33 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 33 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w d g n n w wand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w d g n n w wand whave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 33.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 34 5 SwwwwwCACTCAGCwwwwcg. . . gwgwGGGWWgwwwwwS 3 SEQ ID NO. 119 34 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 34 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w w w c g g w gand w. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of w w w w c g g w gand whave at least 55 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 34.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 35 5 SnnWBYAGYACCDNRGHsAG. . . CNNHnnnWBYAGYACCDNRG. . . HSAGCNNHnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 120 35 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 35 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 or 3 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n nand nhave at least 50 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 35.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 36 5 SnnnnGARMAWksagknnnn. . . garmAWKSAGKnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 121 36 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 36 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 or 13 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k s a g k n n n n g a rand m. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of k s a g k n n n n g a rand mhave at least 60 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 36.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 37 5 SnnnnGARGCCSswgwnnnn. . . garGCCSSWGWnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 122 37 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 37 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or 11 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s w g w n n n n g aand r. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s w g w n n n n g aand rhave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 37.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 38 5 sCGAAAGGACAAAssnvvnn. . . nsgdnnGGACAAAGGTCAs 3 SEQ ID NO. 123 38 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 38 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s s n v v n n n sand g. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s s n v v n n n sand ghave at least 50 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 38.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 39 5 SnnnARMRWWywmgnnarmr. . . wwyWMGAATTnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 124 39 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 39 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 or 13 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y w m g n n a r m r w wand y. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of y w m g n n a r m r w wand yhave at least 55 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 39.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 47 5 SnnnnnCACTTCCTGCnnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 125 47 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 47 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n n n n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n n n n nand nhave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 47.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 48 5 SnnnnnAGKYAADNDTWVMN. . . nnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 126 48 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 48 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n n n n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n n n n nand nhave at least 70 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 48.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 49 5 SnnTCTCYGATTGGYTCBYnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 127 49 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 49 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 or 3 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n nand nhave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 49.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 50 5 SnnnnnCCTWTGCCTCCTWS. . . rrnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 128 50 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 50 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n r r n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n r r n nand nhave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 50.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 51 5 SnnnnWBYAGYACCDNRGHS. . . AGCNNHnnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 129 51 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 51 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of n n n n n n nand nhave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 51.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 52 5 SmrmWAGGNCAAAGGTCAnn. . . nnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 130 52 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 52 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of m r m n n n nand g. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of m r m n n n nand ghave at least 80 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 52.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy comprises a double stranded sequence represented by formula 53 5 SscttgykgykGAATATcgn. . . nnnnS 3 SEQ ID NO. 131 53 

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy represented by formula 53 comprises a deletion of one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 or 17 nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s c t t g y k g y k c g n n n nand n. In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys comprising a deletion of one or more nucleotides selected from the group consisting of s C t t g y k g y k c g n n n nand nhave at least 75 identity to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 53.

A double stranded oligonucleotide having a certain percent e.g. 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 99 of sequence identity with another sequence means that when aligned that percentage determines the level of correspondence of bases arrangement in comparing the two sequences. This alignment and the percent homology or identity can be determined using any suitable software program known in the art that allows local alignment. The software program should be capable of finding regions of local identity between two sequences without the need to include the entire length of the sequences. In some embodiments such program includes but is not limited to the EMBOSS Pairwise Alignment Algorithm available from the European Bioinformatics Institute EBI the ClustalW program also available from the European Bioinformatics Institute EBI or the BLAST program BLAST Manual Altschul et al. Natl Cent. Biotechnol. Inf. Natl Lib. Med. NCIB NLM NIH Bethesda Md. and Altschul et al. 1997 NAR 25 3389 3402 .

One skilled in the art will recognize that sequences encompassed by the invention include those that hybridize under stringent hybridization conditions with an exemplified sequence e.g. SEQ ID NOs. 1 42 45 and 47 53 . A nucleic acid is hybridizable to another nucleic acid when a single stranded form of the nucleic acid can anneal to the other single stranded nucleic acid under appropriate conditions of temperature and solution ionic strength. Hybridization conditions are well known in the art. In some embodiments annealing may occur during a slow decrease of temperature from a denaturizing temperature e.g. 100 C. to room temperature in a salt containing solvent e.g. Tris EDTA buffer .

Generally the oligonucleotide decoys disclosed herein may be used to bind and e.g. thereby inhibit transcription factors that modulate the expression of genes involved nociceptive signaling and or a subject s e.g. patient s perception of pain. A oligonucleotide decoy disclosed herein designed to bind to a specific transcription factor has a nucleic acid sequence mimicking the endogenous genomics DNA sequence normally bound by the transcription factor. Accordingly the oligonucleotide decoys disclosed herein inhibit a necessary step for gene expression. Further the oligonucleotide decoys disclosed herein may bind to a number of different transcription factors. The oligonucleotide decoys disclosed herein may be chemically modified by methods well known to the skilled artisan e.g. incorporation of phosphorothioate methylphosphonate phosphorodithioate phosphoramidates carbonate thioether siloxane acetamidate or carboxymethyl ester linkages between nucleotides to prevent degradation by nucleases within cells and extra cellular fluids e.g. serum cerebrospinal fluid . Also oligonucleotide decoys may be designed that form hairpin and dumbbell structures which also prevent or hinder nuclease degradation. Further the oligonucleotide decoys may also be inserted as a portion of a larger plasmid capable of episomal maintenance or constitutive replication in the target cell in order to provide longer term enhanced intracellular exposure to the decoy sequence and or reduce its degradation. Accordingly any chemical modification or structural alteration known in the art to enhance oligonucleotide stability is within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys disclosed herein may be attached for example to polyethylene glycol polymers peptides e.g. a protein translocation domain or proteins which improve the therapeutic effect of oligonucleotide decoys. Such modified oligonucleotide decoys may preferentially traverse the cell membrane.

In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys are provided as salts hydrates solvates or N oxide derivatives. In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys are provided in solution e.g. a saline solution having a physiologic pH or in lyophilzed form. In other embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys are provided in liposomes.

In certain embodiments one or more oligonucleotide decoys are provided in a kit. In certain embodiments the kit includes an instruction e.g. for using said one or more oligonucleotide decoys. In certain embodiments said instruction describes one or more of the methods of the present invention e.g. a method for preventing or treating pain a method of modulating gene expression in a cell a method for modulating nociceptive signaling in a cell a method for modulating protein degradation in a cell etc. In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys provided in a kit are provided in lyophilized form. In certain related embodiments a kit that comprises one or more lyophilized oligonucleotide decoys further comprises a solution e.g. a pharmaceutically acceptable saline solution that can be used to resuspend said one or more of the oligonucleotide decoys.

The double stranded oligonucleotides described herein may be made by conventional methods known in the art and thus are well within the ambit of the skilled artisan.

The pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein comprise a therapeutically effective amount of one or more oligonucleotide decoys preferably in purified form together with a suitable amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle so as to provide a form for proper administration to a patient. When administered to a patient oligonucleotide decoys and pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles are preferably sterile. Water is a preferred vehicle when oligonucleotide decoys are administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid vehicles particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical vehicles include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The present pharmaceutical compositions if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and coloring agents may be used.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be manufactured by means of conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making levigating emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers diluents excipients or auxiliaries which facilitate processing of compounds disclosed herein into preparations which can be used pharmaceutically. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen.

The present pharmaceutical compositions can take the form of solutions suspensions emulsions tablets pills pellets capsules capsules containing liquids powders sustained release formulations suppositories aerosols sprays suspensions or any other form suitable for use. Other examples of suitable pharmaceutical vehicles have been described in the art see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 19th Edition 1995 .

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral delivery may be in the form of tablets lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions granules powders emulsions capsules syrups or elixirs for example. Orally administered compositions may contain one or more optional agents for example sweetening agents such as fructose aspartame or saccharin flavoring agents such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry coloring agents and preserving agents to provide a pharmaceutically palatable preparation. Moreover when in tablet or pill form the compositions may be coated to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract thereby providing a sustained action over an extended period of time. Oral compositions can include standard vehicles such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate etc. Such vehicles are preferably of pharmaceutical grade.

For oral liquid preparations such as for example suspensions elixirs and solutions suitable carriers excipients or diluents include water saline alkyleneglycols e.g. propylene glycol polyalkylene glycols e.g. polyethylene glycol oils alcohols slightly acidic buffers between pH 4 and pH 6 e.g. acetate citrate or ascorbate at between about 5 mM to about 50 mM etc. Additionally flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents bile salts acylcarnitines and the like may be added.

Compositions for administration via other routes may also be contemplated. For buccal administration the compositions may take the form of tablets lozenges etc. formulated in conventional manner. Liquid drug formulations suitable for use with nebulizers and liquid spray devices and EHD aerosol devices will typically include a compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. Preferably the pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle is a liquid such as alcohol water polyethylene glycol or a perfluorocarbon. Optionally another material may be added to alter the aerosol properties of the solution or suspension of compounds. Preferably this material is liquid such as an alcohol glycol polyglycol or a fatty acid. Other methods of formulating liquid drug solutions or suspension suitable for use in aerosol devices are known to those of skill in the art see e.g. Biesalski U.S. Pat. No. 5 112 598 Biesalski U.S. Pat. No. 5 556 611 . A compound may also be formulated in rectal or vaginal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides. In addition to the formulations described previously a compound may also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations may be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example a compound may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

An oligonucleotide decoy may be included in any of the above described formulations or in any other suitable formulation as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt a solvate or hydrate. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts substantially retain the activity of the parent compound and may be prepared by reaction with appropriate bases or acids and tend to be more soluble in aqueous and other protic solvents than the corresponding parent form.

In certain embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy and or pharmaceutical composition thereof is administered to a patient such as an animal e.g. a bird mammal primate or human suffering from pain including but not limited to mechanical pain e.g. mechanical hyperalgesia and or allodynia chemical pain temperature pain chronic pain sub chronic pain acute pain sub acute pain inflammatory pain neuropathic pain muscular pain skeletal pain post surgery pain arthritis pain and diabetes pain. Further in certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys and or pharmaceutical compositions thereof are administered to a patient such as an animal as a preventative measure against pain including but not limited to post operative pain chronic pain inflammatory pain neuropathic pain muscular pain and skeletal pain. In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoys and or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be used for the prevention of one facet of pain while concurrently treating another symptom of pain.

Thus in certain embodiments the invention provides methods of treating pain in a patient comprising administering to a patient suffering from pain a therapeutically effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy described herein. In related embodiments methods of preventing pain in a patient are provided. Such methods comprise administering to a patient in need thereof e.g. a patient likely to develop pain e.g. post operative pain a therapeutically effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy described herein. In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide decoy is administered perineurally epidurally peridurally intrathecally or intradermally.

In certain embodiments the invention provides methods for treating or preventing pain in a patient comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an oligonucleotide decoy wherein the oligonucleotide decoy does not bind to the transcription factors AP1 ETS1 and STAT. In other embodiments the invention provides methods for treating or preventing pain in a patient comprising administering to the patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of one or more oligonucleotide decoys wherein the oligonucleotide decoys bind to one or more transcription factors selected from the group consisting of AP1 ETS1 GATA and STAT transcription factors provided that the pain is not lower back pain due to an intervertebral disc disorder.

In certain embodiments the invention provides methods for modulating transcription of a gene present in a cell involved in nociceptive signaling and or the perception of pain in a patient. In certain embodiments modulation comprises suppressing or repressing gene expression. In other embodiments modulation comprises stabilizing gene expression. In still other embodiments modulation comprises activating or inducing gene expression. In certain embodiments the gene is involved in nociceptive signaling. Genes involved in nociceptive signaling include but are not limited to genes encoding membrane proteins e.g. ion channels membrane receptors etc. soluble signaling molecules e.g. intracellular signaling molecules or neurotransmitters synthetic enzymes e.g. neurotransmitter synthesis enzymes and transcription factors. Specific examples of such genes include but are not limited to BDKRB2 HTR3A SCN9A BDNF GRM5 NOS1 GCH1 CDK5R1 CACNA1B P2AR3 and PNMT.

In other embodiments the invention provides methods for modulating nociceptive signaling in a cell. In certain embodiments modulation comprises suppressing or repressing nociceptive signaling. In certain embodiments modulating nociceptive signaling in a cell comprises modulating e.g. increasing proteolysis of a protein involved in nociceptive signaling in said cell. For instance abnormally high proteasome activity has been linked to strong deficits of neuronal plasticity i.e. a major cellular feature of pain . EGR1 is known to repress the expression of selected proteasome factors thus limiting EGR1 dependent nociceptive signaling activity is relevant for treating pain. Further neutrophines activate specific receptors in pain neurons that trigger nociceptive signalings. USF factors activate the expression of CGRP and Substance P two major neurotrophins capable of inducing pain. Inhibiting USF factors is a potential approach to inhibit nociceptive signaling. In certain embodiments modulation comprises activation of an inhibitor of nociceptive signaling.

In still other embodiments the invention provided methods for modulating e.g. increasing proteolytic degradation of a protein involved in nociceptive signaling in a cell. In certain embodiments modulation of protein degradation comprises stimulating proteosome function. In certain embodiments the protein is involved in nociceptive signaling. Proteins involved in nociceptive signaling include but are not limited to membrane proteins e.g. ion channels membrane receptors etc. soluble signaling molecules e.g. intracellular signaling molecules or neurotransmitters synthetic enzymes e.g. neurotransmitter synthesis enzymes and transcription factors. Specific examples of such proteins include but are not limited to BDKRB2 HTR3A SCN9A BDNF GRM5 NOS1 GCH1 CDK5R1 CACNA1B P2XR3 and PNMT.

In certain embodiments the cell of the various methods is provided in vivo e.g. in a patient suffering from pain or likely to suffer from pain . A cell provided in vivo can be located in different locations including but not limited to a dorsal root ganglia and or the spinal cord. In other embodiments the cell of the various methods is provided in vitro e.g. in a petri dish . The cell can be any cell involved in nociceptive signaling including but not limited to a neuron e.g. a pain neuron from dorsal root ganglia and or the spinal cord or from the sympathetic nervous system a glial cell a tissue supportive cell e.g. fibroblast an immune cell or a cell from a cell line e.g. a PC12 cell .

The present methods for treatment or prevention of pain require administration of a oligonucleotide decoys or pharmaceutical compositions thereof to a patient in need of such treatment or prevention. The compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered by any convenient route for example by infusion or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa etc. or orally. Administration can be systemic or local. Various delivery systems are known including e.g. encapsulation in liposomes microparticles microcapsules capsules etc. that can be used to administer a compound and or pharmaceutical composition thereof. Methods of administration include but are not limited to intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous intranasal epidural peridural oral sublingual intranasal intracerebral intravaginal transdermal rectally by inhalation or topically particularly to the ears nose eyes or skin. In certain embodiments more than one oligonucleotide decoy is administered to a patient. The preferred mode of administration is left to the discretion of the practitioner and will depend in part upon the site of the medical condition.

In specific embodiments it may be desirable to administer one or more oligonucleotide decoys locally to the area in need of treatment. This may be achieved for example and not by way of limitation by local infusion during surgery topical application e.g. in conjunction with a wound dressing after surgery by injection by means of a catheter by means of a suppository or by means of an implant said implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as sialastic membranes or fibers. In some embodiments administration can be by direct injection at the site e.g. former current or expected site of pain.

In certain embodiments it may be desirable to introduce one or more oligonucleotide decoys into the nervous system by any suitable route including but not restricted to intraventricular intrathecal perineural and or epidural peridural injection. Intraventricular injection may be facilitated by an intraventricular catheter for example attached to a reservoir such as an Ommaya reservoir.

Pulmonary administration can also be employed e.g. by use of an inhaler or nebulizer and formulation with an aerosolizing agent or via perfusion in a fluorocarbon or synthetic pulmonary surfactant.

The amount of oligonucleotide decoy that will be effective in the treatment or prevention of pain in a patient will depend on the specific nature of the condition and can be determined by standard clinical techniques known in the art. In addition in vitro or in vivo assays may optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The amount of a oligonucleotide decoy administered will of course be dependent on among other factors the subject being treated the weight of the subject the severity of the affliction the manner of administration and the judgment of the prescribing physician. In certain embodiments a single dose of oligonucleotide decoy comprises about 5 gs to 5 mgs 50 gs to 2.5 mgs 100 gs to 1 mg 250 gs to 750 gs or about 500 gs of oligonucleotide decoy per kilogram of body weight.

Preferably the dosage forms are adapted to be administered to a patient no more than twice per day more preferably only once per day. Dosing may be provided alone or in combination with other drugs and may continue as long as required for effective treatment or prevention of pain.

In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys and or pharmaceutical compositions thereof can be used in combination therapy with at least one other therapeutic agent which may include but is not limited to an oligonucleotide decoy. The oligonucleotide decoy and or pharmaceutical composition thereof and the therapeutic agent can act additively or more preferably synergistically. In some embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy and or a pharmaceutical composition thereof is administered concurrently with the administration of another therapeutic agent including another oligonucleotide decoy. In other embodiments an oligonucleotide decoy or a pharmaceutical composition thereof is administered prior or subsequent to administration of another therapeutic agent including another oligonucleotide decoy.

The invention is further defined by reference to the following experimental protocol. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications both to materials and methods may be practiced without departing from the scope of the invention.

The experimental model consists of mimicking a pain situation by applying to neuronal cell lines primary dorsal root ganglion DRG and or spinal cord neurons a combination of pro inflammatory mediators e.g. nerve growth factor interleukin 1 bradykinin serotonin substance P etc. known to trigger the modulation of pain genes. Pain genes expression profiling is realized by semi quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction sqRT PCR in several experimental situations including but not restricted to following pro inflammatory mediator stimulation with or without double stranded oligonucleotide treatment. An overview of the experiment is shown below 

Cells are cultured in vitro and may be submitted to independent situations including but not limited to 

After treatment cells are collected and the RNA is extracted. Pain gene expression levels are measured possibly by semi quantitative RT PCR and the expression profiles of each situation are compared to each other.

Oligonucleotide decoy treatment consists of transfecting one or more concurrently or in a sequence at a time interval yet to be determined oligonucleotide decoys of sequences selected from SEQ ID NOs. 1 45 in neuronal cell lines DRG and or spinal cord neurons. Cell lines include but are not limited to PC12 cells NGF differentiated or not SH SY5Y cells Weri cells Hela HEK293 F 11 NS20Y and ND7 23 cells or any other cell line expressing one or more genes that may be selected e.g. ACCN1 3 BDKRB1 2 BDNF CACNA1G H CALCA GRIN1 GRM1 GRM5 HTR1 3 NTRK1 P2RX3 PLC PRKC etc. . One or more transfection s is applied to the same set of cells including or not including the same single or set of oligonucleotide decoys. Cells either cell lines or primary neurons are collected at a time after oligonucleotide decoy treatment e.g. 24 or 48 hours post treatment . The transfection efficiency is measured by following the uptake of a labeled oligonucleotide decoy possibly with a dye such as fluoresceine. The efficiency is given in percentage of total cells that contain the labeled oligonucleotide decoy.

Cultured cells are collected after treatment with oligonucleotide decoy and their RNA is extracted. Extracted RNA is transformed into cDNA by reverse transcription. The amount of cDNA of each selected gene which reflects the amount of endogenous mRNA is measured by PCR. The same amount of PCR reaction product is loaded on an agarose gel saturated with ethidium bromide or any other suitable agent for DNA detection. Detection of DNA is performed under a UV lamp or any other suitable device and gels images are analyzed with quantification software. The amount of DNA produced during each PCR reaction is normalized on the amount of DNA produced by the control PCR reactions from housekeeping genes e.g. ACTB GAPDH which reflects the total quantity of RNA initially present in cells. The comparison of ratio signal control values obtained for each gene with and without oligonucleotide decoy treatment s will give a relative measure of the impact of each oligonucleotide decoy on the level of expression of genes.

Control experiments with mismatched e.g. SEQ ID NO. 43 annealed to SEQ ID NO. 46 referred to hereinafter as SEQ ID NO. 43 46 scrambled and or mutated double stranded oligonucleotides are performed in parallel to ensure the measured effect is specific to each oligonucleotide decoy. Cell viability after oligonucleotide decoy treatment may be measured.

The same approach may be used with current pain drugs such as nonsteroid anti inflammatory drugs or coxibs to compare with oligonucleotide decoys.

In certain embodiments oligonucleotide decoys produce an effect in the expression pattern s which includes but is not limited to an inhibition and or an induction of one or more gene s that may be involved in nociceptive signaling and or the perception of pain in a patient. In certain embodiments the inhibited gene s may encode pro pain factors like receptors of pro inflammatory mediators and the activated genes may encode anti pain factors like opioids receptors.

For oligonucleotide decoys consisting of a pair of complementary strands the complementary strands are annealed at equimolar concentration in a saline buffer e.g. Tris EDTA TE . The standard procedure includes maintaining the solution of both strands at a high denaturizing temperature e.g. 100 C. for a period of time which may vary depending on the complementary strands followed by a slow decrease in temperature e.g. 0.3 1 C. min until the solution reaches a low temperature of annealing e.g. 20 C. . The proper annealing of complementary strands may be verified by any suitable standard technique including but not restricted to running samples of annealed oligonucleotides next to un annealed ones on a non denaturing polyacrylamide gel. For oligonucleotide decoys that are self annealing substantially the same protocol is followed.

DRG and or spinal cord cells can be collected from an animal e.g. a mammal such as a rat or mouse and the neurons can be freshly dissociated using collagenase e.g. collagenase type II at 37 C. Cells isolated in such fashion can be plated on suitable Petri dishes e.g. collagen coated . Neurons are maintained in appropriate media culture e.g. DMEM . Cell lines are thawed and maintained in adequate media and Petri dishes according to the supplier recommendations. Cells are typically incubated at 37 C. 5 CO. Cell lines are cultured according to supplier recommendations.

The invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be construed as limiting.

Oligonucleotide decoys of the invention include but are not limited to sequences presented in Table 1. In general the oligonucleotide decoy is generated by annealing the sequence provided in the table with a complementary sequence. To generate a mismatch double stranded oligonucleotide the sequence provided in the table can be annealed to a sequence that is only partially complementary. For example SEQ ID NO. 43 can be annealed to SEQ ID NO. 46 to produce the mismatched sequence SEQ ID NO. 43 46 described in the following Examples.

SEQ ID NO. 3 which is designed to bind EGR1 transcription factor has a structure that is typical of class of oligonucleotide decoys of the invention. The structure of SEQ ID NO. 3 includes in order from 5 to 3 a 5 flanking sequence a first transcription factor binding site a linker sequence a second transcription factor binding site and a 3 flanking sequence. SEQ ID NO. 40 which has 94 identity with SEQ ID NO. 3 and the same basic structure is predicted in silico to bind EGR1 better than SEQ ID NO. 3. Pharmacological analysis of SEQ ID NO. 40 was performed using a transcription factor ELISA kit specific for EGR1 binding detection. The sensitivity of transcription factor ELISA technology is ten times more sensitive than classical EMSA experiments allowing detailed pharmacological studies of transcription factor decoys.

The proper annealing of forward and reverse strands of SEQ ID NO. 40 was confirmed on a 2.5 agarose gel as shown in . Binding experiments were conducted with the human form of EGR1 hEGR1 present in nuclear extracts of TPA stimulated K 562 cells. See e.g. .

Quantitative competition ELISA using SEQ ID NO. 40 and SEQ ID NO. 41 show that SEQ ID NO. 40 exhibits strong hEGR1 binding activity as shown in . In our experimental context an half inhibition concentration IC value represents the concentration of competitor that gives 50 inhibition of the probe binding measured in absence of the competitor and thus is a measure of the relative affinities of sequences against each other. The results indicate that SEQ ID NO. 40 which contains two EGR1 transcription factor binding sites bares a relative affinity to hEGR1 similar to the consensus SEQ ID NO. 41 which contains a single EGR1 transcription factor binding site with ICof 215 nM and 250 nM respectively.

We discovered that SEQ ID NO. 42 which is 70 homologous to SEQ ID NO. 3 but includes a specific fusion of the two EGR1 transcription factor binding sites present in SEQ ID NO. 3 has an affinity for EGR1 two times higher than the single consensus sequence SEQ ID NO. 41 with an ICof 99 nM. See .

Crystal structure experiments studies have shown that a single EGR1 protein is able to bind its consensus binding sequence through three zinc finger domains. It is known that protein protein interactions can directly change DNA binding activities as proven for the AP1 factors c jun and c fos where the c jun c fos dimer binds to AP1 response elements five to thirty times better than c jun c jun dimers. Without intending to be bound we believe that the fusion of the two EGR1 transcription factor binding sites present in SEQ ID NO. 42 induces protein protein interactions between two EGR1 factors and thereby mutually increases their DNA binding affinity. In any event the very high affinity of SEQ ID NO. 42 for EGR1 as compare to known binding sequences makes SEQ ID NO. 42 particularly attractive as a pharmaceutical inhibitor of hEGR1.

The absence of non specific oligonucleotides binding effect in our ELISA experiments was demonstrated by the lack of EGR1 binding to the mismatch sequence SEQ ID NO. 43 46 as shown in . In addition SP1 and WT1 transcription factors which are structurally related to EGR1 and are able to bind GC rich DNA sequences similar to the EGR1 consensus binding sequence bound poorly to EGR1 oligonucleotide decoys. ELISA experiments detecting hSP1 binding demonstrated that SEQ ID NO. 40 bound poorly to SP1 as compare to the SP 1 specific oligonucleotide decoy SEQ ID NO. 11 with an OD value 80 lower. See top panel . Furthermore competition experiments demonstrated that SEQ ID NO. 42 does not bind efficiently to hSP1 even at high excess concentrations as shown in top and bottom panels. A similar lack of affinity was observed for EGR1 oligonucleotide binding to hWT1. See top and bottom panels.

Altogether pharmacological experiments reveal that SEQ ID NO. 42 is a powerful hEGR1 inhibitor compound as i it has a higher relative affinity for hEGR1 as compare to both the single consensus binding site decoy SEQ ID NO. 41 and the double consensus binding site decoy SEQ ID NO. 40 and ii it is highly specific.

The capacity of SEQ ID NO. 40 and SEQ ID NO. 42 to inhibit hEGR1 transcriptional activity in human cells was measured through their effect on CDK5R1 gene expression. CDK5R1 is an activator of the CDK5 kinase. Both are up regulated in pain neurons following peripheral inflammation and regulate nociceptive signaling notably via phosphorylation of the capsaicin receptor TRPV1. hEGR1 directly binds to the CDK5R1 promoter in human HL60 cells and controls its up regulation following cell differentiation by 1 25 Dihydroxyvitamin D3. Segment of the natural CDK5R1 promoter used as a decoy in HL60 cells are already known to inhibit CDK5R1 expression. We assessed the efficiency of our decoy sequences to inhibit hEGR1 activity by measuring the level of inhibition of CDK5R1 they confer following HL60 cell differentiation. CDK5R1 mRNA expression level was measured by sq RT PCR see e.g. and half inhibition concentrations ICrefers to the decoy concentration needed to produce 50 inhibition of the maximum CDK5R1 mRNA expression level measured after 1 25 Dihydroxyvitamin D3 differentiation.

We confirmed the up regulation of CDK5R1 mRNA expression level following 1 25 Dihydroxyvitamin D3 application as well as the presence of hEGR1 in HL60 cells as shown in . The high transfection yield 70 of our decoy sequences into HL60 cells is illustrated in . shows that we did not measure any significant difference in the number of dead cells between 1 25 Dihydroxyvitamin D3 treatment alone and combined with decoy sequences at concentrations up to 1 M demonstrating the lack of toxicity of EGR1 decoy in HL60 cells.

Dose response experiments from 250 nM to 2 M conducted with our hEGR1 decoy sequences are displayed in . SEQ ID NO. 40 and SEQ ID NO. 41 have a similar IC with values of 544 nM and 529 nM respectively. This is directly consistent with the fact that the two sequences display roughly the same binding affinity for hEGR1. SEQ ID NO. 42 is over three time more effective at inhibiting CDK5R1 mRNA expression than the other decoys with an IC 150 nM reflecting its higher affinity for hEGR1. Typical pictures of CDK5R1 mRNA expression detection on agarose gels illustrating the differential ICof SEQ ID NO. 40 and SEQ ID NO. 42 are displayed in . Those data reveal a direct relationship between the relative affinities of hEGR1 decoy sequences and their efficiency in a cellular context and further confirm the therapeutic potential of SEQ ID NO. 42 as an hEGR1 inhibitor and for treating pain.

The specificity of SEQ ID NO 42 activity was verified using two methods. First we verified the absence of CDK5R1 expression inhibition from the mismatch sequence SEQ ID NO. 43 46 which indicates the lack of non specific nucleotide exposure effects. See left panel. Second we confirmed the specificity of SEQ ID NO. 42 activity by showing its lack of effect on the regulation of BCL2 a anti apoptotic gene that lacks hEGR1 response element within its promoter and is not known to be regulated by hEGR1 in HL60 cells. Consistent with previous observations we measured a down regulation of BCL2 mRNA expression after HL60 differentiation and this down regulation was not altered by SEQ ID NO. 42 oligonucleotide decoy treatment. See right panel.

PC12 are pheochromocytoma cells extensively used as a model to investigate pain signaling pathways because they express and regulate numerous pain genes in a fashion similar to endogenous pain neurons in response to pro inflammatory mediators such as NGF or cAMP elevating compounds. We measured the effect of seq ID NO. 42 decoy treatment on pain genes expression profile. We selected 11 pain genes based on i their critical roles in multiple pain syndromes ii their different positions along pain signaling pathways and iii the strong parallel between the regulation of their expression between endogenous pain neurons and PC12 cells. They belong to four genes classes ion channels Scn9a Cacna1b membrane receptors Grm5 Bdkrb2 P2rx3 Htr3a signaling and neurotransmitter synthesis enzymes and related proteins Cdk5r1 Gch1 Pnmt Nos1 and neurotransmitter Bdnf .

We obtained similar transfection yield in PC12 80 cells as compare to HL60 cells as shown in . displays the basal expression level of the selected pain genes normalized upon Gapdh expression level with and without SEQ ID NO. 42 decoy treatment. The results indicate that the basal expression of Bdkrb2 Htr3a and Scn9a is strongly inhibited by SEQ ID NO. 42 treatment. Interestingly all three of the genes encode membrane proteins two receptors and one ion channel. The absence of impact on the other genes expression level emphasizes the specificity of the EGR1 decoy treatment in PC12 cells. In further experiments we treated PC12 cells with two pain mimicking stimuli that are known to mobilize EGR1 NGF and forskolin. NGF induces the expression of EGR1 and forskolin acts as a permissive factor for EGR1 activity in PC12 cells. Twenty four hours after NGF forskolin treatment of PC12 cells we observed significant up regulation of 7 of the 11 genes examined including Bdnf Grm5 Scn9a Nos1 Gch1 Cdk5r1 and Pnmt. Our results are in agreement with several other studies showing the up regulation of such pain genes in PC12 cells following NGF exposure. Treatment with SEQ ID NO. 42 fully prevented the endogenous up regulation of five of the genes including Scn9a Nos1 Gch1 Cdk5r1 and Pnmt. Interestingly all of these genes except Scn9a encode enzymes related proteins. Typical pictures of pain gene cDNA detection on agarose gels illustrating the two complementary effect of SEQ ID NO. 42 treatment basal expression inhibition and up regulation block are shown in . We verified the lack of non specific oligonucleotides exposure effect in PC12 cells by showing the absence inhibition by the mismatch sequence SEQ ID NO. 43 46 on two pain genes as shown in .

SEQ ID NO. 42 inhibits the expression level of seven out of eleven pain genes on two different levels basal transcription and pain induced up regulation. It is possible that the two effects operate on distinct classes of genes as within our small scale experiments basal transcription levels were inhibited among essentially only membrane proteins while under pain like conditions the normal up regulation of pain associated genes was inhibited among essentially only genes encoding enzymes. The high proportion of genes regulated and their complementary qualities reflects the importance of EGR1 in pain and is in agreement with animal knockout and antisense studies demonstrating that in absence of EGR1 major pain syndromes are not maintained. From a therapeutic prospective the interest of inhibiting EGR1 activity using SEQ ID NO. 42 is the ability to concurrently modulate the expression of a high number of pain genes that are active at multiple steps of pain signaling pathways. For instance a unique treatment with SEQ ID NO. 42 would be sufficient to concurrently inhibit a receptor like BDRKD2 that perceive pain signals an ion channel like SCN9A that relays pain signals within neurons and a neurotransmitter synthesis enzyme like GCH1 that participate to its synaptic transmission between neurons whereas normally a complex polypharmacy approach would be necessary to simultaneously affect such different targets. Altogether the experimental data showing the strong inhibitory effect of SEQ ID NO. 42 on EGR1 dependent pain gene expression reveals its therapeutic potential for pain treatment.

We analyzed several other oligonucleotide decoys sequences that target transcription factors with distinct roles including i CREB ATF and NFAT which are immediate early genes that are critical in pain gene expression plasticity and complement the role of EGR1 and ii AML1 and SP1 factors which are critical in the maintenance of basal expression and tissue specific expression of numerous pain genes.

The therapeutic potential of three of the sequences was assessed in PC12 cells as described for SEQ ID NO. 42. The presence of CREB ATF NFAT and RUNX factors has been previously described in PC12 cells. Expression levels of pain genes before and after SEQ ID NO. 4 SEQ ID NO. 12 and SEQ ID NO. 15 decoy treatment are shown in Table 2A. illustrates the effect of oligonucleotide decoy treatment measured under pain like conditions. Each sequence inhibited the expression of multiple genes under both basal and pain like conditions. See Tables 2A and 2B . For example SEQ ID NO. 4 which targets CREB ATF transcription factors inhibited the basal expression level of Bdkrb2 Grm5 Htr3a Pnmt and Nos1 and prevents the up regulation of Scn9a Cdk5r1 Pnmt and Nos1. We observed some overlap in the inhibition profiles of decoy sequences over the regulation of pain genes expression. Such redundancy is not surprising in the light of gene expression being controlled by scaffolds of transcription factors rather than by a single one and that all investigated factors are involved in pain signaling. In vivo the respective involvement of each of transcription factor in the regulation of genes expression may depend on the type of pain neuron it is expressed in and in its global activity resulting from the integration of complex pain signaling pathways. Therefore the therapeutic relevance of a particular decoy may depend on the pain syndrome intensity and stage.

Some important pain genes like Scn9a which is critical in the genesis of action potential in pain neurons e.g. nonsense mutations in Scn9a generate insensitivity to pain are very sensitive to transcription regulation. Scn9a up regulation after NGF and forskolin treatment appears to implicate a transcriptional network that includes the three immediate early genes Egr1 Creb Atf and Nfat. If the activity of a single one of those factors is inhibited with one of our decoy sequences the regulation is lost. This represents an important potential therapeutic advantage to the decoy approach as the expression of a given gene may be inhibited without the need to target all the transcription factors involved in its regulation.

Altogether those experiments demonstrate that our decoy sequences have the potential to concurrently inhibit a high number of pain genes a unique property for pain therapy.

Considering that a certain level of redundancy operates between transcription factor activities we developed a composite decoy sequence SEQ ID NO. 45 for the concurrent inhibition of EGR1 CREB ATF and NFAT. The interest of such a sequence is the simultaneous inhibition of three major immediate early genes involved in neuronal plasticity and that integrate complementary signaling pathways critical for pain sensation. Signaling kinases like the MAPK ERK pathways which are activated by numerous metabotropic pain receptors e.g. the NGF receptors NTRK1 NGFR mobilize EGR1 while the calcium signaling pathways mobilized by calcium and cationic channels activate CREB and NFAT. The sequence of SEQ ID NO. 45 includes in 5 to 3 order transcription factor binding sites for EGR1 CREB ATF and NFAT each selected from the individual response elements of SEQ ID NO. 3 EGR1 SEQ ID NO. 4 CREB ATF and SEQ ID NO. 15 NFAT .

The binding properties of SEQ ID NO. 45 for each factor are displayed FIG. A B. Parallel ELISA competition experiments with SEQ ID NO. 41 and SEQ ID NO. 45 show that the relative binding affinity of this composite sequence for EGR1 is as high as the oligonucleotide decoy SEQ ID NO. 41. Furthermore the inhibition of hEGR1 activity in HL60 cells induced by SEQ ID NO. 45 treatment matches the inhibition induced by SEQ ID NO. 41 both having overlapping dose response curves. These results are consistent with our prior observation that cell efficiency is directly linked to the relative affinity measured in ELISA experiments. Finally further ELISA competition experiments show that in plus of binding to hEGR1 SEQ ID NO. 45 also specifically binds to hCREB hATF and hNFAT factors .

We investigated the impact of SEQ ID NO. 45 on pain gene expression in PC12 cells table 2 . Use of a composite sequence provides two benefits i a potentially additive effect on the number and type of genes inhibited and ii potentially greater inhibition of particular genes that are only partially inhibited by oligonucleotide decoys specific to single transcription factors. The additive effect was illustrated for SEQ ID NO. 45 by the differential inhibition among the composite NFAT and EGR1 decoys. For example SEQ ID NO. 42 does not inhibit Grm5 basal expression while both SEQ ID NO. 15 NFAT and SEQ ID NO. 45 composite do. Similarly in pain like condition SEQ ID NO. 15 NFAT does not prevent Scn9a up regulation after NGF and forskolin treatment while SEQ ID NO. 42 EGR1 and SEQ ID NO. 45 composite do.

The intensity effect appears strongly in the regulation of Bdrkb2 and Scn9a genes expression as shown in . When one gene is inhibited by at least 2 transcription factors targeted by the composite sequence the intensity of the inhibition is stronger than the inhibition conferred by the individual sequences. For instance Bdrkb2 basal expression is individually inhibited by a factor of 5 by both SEQ ID NO. 4 and SEQ ID NO. 15 while it is inhibited by a factor of 10 by the composite oligonucleotide decoy SEQ ID NO. 45.

Values are given as Mean and SEM and represent the expression level in PC12 cells of each gene normalized on the Gapdh expression level. Units are arbitrary. Black cases represent experiments not done. n 2 4.

Inflammation is a major source of pain. It is a feature common to numerous pain syndromes such as arthritic and post operative pain. The Complete Freund Adjuvant model CFA is a well characterized inflammatory pain model that is commonly used to reproduces features of human inflammatory pain. For instance following inflammation in the hindpaw animals develop a robust and long lasting mechanical allodynia i.e. a pain in response to a mechanical stimulus normally non painful a phenomenon that is a major source of pain and limitations for patients ambulation breathing and feeding in a post operative context.

In our experiments and accordingly to the literature mechanical allodynia was measurable on the inflamed hindpaw at day 1 post CFA and reached its maximum within 4 days as shown in . Treatment with SEQ ID NO. 42 resulted in an anti allodynic tendency at day 1 post CFA and a robust reversal of allodynia at day 4 post CFA for each stimulus force tested . This is in agreement with EGR1 being involved in the maintenance of neuronal plasticity events like neuronal sensitization and long term potentiation rather than their onset.

Altogether those results indicate that SEQ ID NO. 42 treatment has a robust anti allodynic effect demonstrating its therapeutic potential for treating pain in vivo. Particularly SEQ ID NO. 42 treatment is relevant in preventing the maintenance of long lasting pain syndromes e.g. chronic post operative pain.

HL60 human peripheral blood acute promyelocytic leukemia and PC12 rat adrenal gland pheochromocytomal cells cell lines were purchased from the UCSF Cell culture facility CA USA . HL 60 cells were grown in RPMI media 1640 L Glutamine Invitrogen CA USA supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum and 1 penicillin streptomycin Invitrogen CA USA . Cells were splits into 6 well plates BD Biosciences USA at about 200 10cells well 24h before treatment with 1 M 1 25 Dihydroxyvitamin D3 with or without decoy transfection as described previously. PC12 cells were grown in DMEM containing 1 000 mg L D glucose L glutamine 25 mM HEPES buffer and 110 mg L sodium pyruvate Invitrogen CA USA and supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum 5 heat inactivated horse serum and 1 penicillin streptomycin Invitrogen CA USA . PC12 cells were split into CellBind 6 well plates Corning USA 24 h before treatment with 100 nM NGF Invitrogen CA USA and 5 M forskolin Sigma Aldrich Mo. USA with or without decoy transfection. All cells were grown at 37 C. with 5 CO2. Dead cells counting were realized using Tryptan blue Invitrogen CA USA exclusion technique on a Malassez counting chamber.

Forward and reverse strands for each decoy sequence were synthesized by Integrated DNA Technology IA USA and resuspended in either 1 TE buffer pH 7.4 or pH 8. Each strand pair was annealed in presence of 50 mM NaCl with a 7 min 95 C. denaturation step and a slow cooling to 25 C. at 0.5 C. min. Annealing success was checked on a 2.5 agarose gel with ethidium bromide by observing the slower migration speeds of the duplexes versus a corresponding single strand.

Transfections of decoy sequences were realized using Oligofectamine Invitrogen CA USA according to the manufacturer protocol. For HL60 experiments decoy sequences transfections 250 nM 500 nM 1000 nM and 2000 nM were immediately followed by 1 25 Dihydroxyvitamin D3 1 M treatment. Cells were collected 48 h later and prepared for RNA extraction. For PC12 cells NGF 100 ng ml and forskolin 5 M were applied immediately after decoy sequences transfections 500 nM . Cells were collected 24 h after for RNA extraction.

For both cell lines transfection yield was measured using SEQ ID NO. 40 coupled to fluorescein Integrated DNA Technology IA USA 24 h post transfection. The yield of transfection was calculated based upon the counting of fluorescent versus non fluorescent cells observed under a fluorescent microscope.

Total RNA was extracted from cells using the RNeasy Plus kit Qiagen USA that ensures removal of genomic DNA during RNA extraction. Equivalent RNA quantities are reverse transcripted into cDNA per condition using either the First strand cDNA synthesis kit GE healthcare NJ USA or the Superscript 1strand system Invitrogen CA USA and one sixteenth of each RT was used per PCR reaction. PCR were realized in 20 L total using the Promega master mix Promega WI USA with the following cycles 95 C. 1 min 55 C. 1 min 72 C. 1 min 25 cycles for housekeeping genes ACTB and Gapdh 35 cycles for other genes for material detection in the linear detection range and before signal saturation . All primers used see Table 3 have been previously described.

12.5 l of each PCR reaction was detected on 1 agarose gel Invitrogen CA USA with ethidium bromide Fisher Scientific PA USA . Gel bands images were captured with a Fluor Chem SP gel imager system Alpha Innotech CA USA and analyzed using the Image J software NIH MD USA . Expression levels were normalized on ACTB levels for HL60 experiments and Gapdh levels for PC12 experiments. Statistical significance was measured with the two tails student t test. Dose responses curves were fitted with the exponential decay equation.

The affinity and specificity of decoy sequences for their transcription factor targets was measured with colorimetric transcription factor ELISA Enzyme linked immuno adsorbent kits Panomics CA USA . Briefly designated decoy sequences coupled to biotin were incubated for 30 minutes with nuclear protein extracts from TPA stimulated K 562 cells expressing targeted transcription factors Activemotif CA USA . The mixes of proteins and decoy sequences were loaded on 96 well plates coated with streptavidin provided in the kit. The quantity of transcription factor captured by each decoy sequence was revealed according to the supplier protocol using specific primary antibodies and secondary antibodies coupled to the horseradish peroxidase HRP enzyme. Reactions optical densities ODs were read at 450 nM with a Thermomax microplate reader Molecular Device CA USA .

Experiments were conducted in 50 l with 6.4 pmoles of biotin coupled decoy sequence probe mixed with 10 g of nuclear protein extract in the kit binding buffer. When the probe is incubated alone with the protein extracts the resulting OD represents the binding activity of the probe for its target. When increasing concentration of competing not biotinylated versions of the probe are added to the binding reaction a reduction of OD values demonstrates binding specificity. The use of sequence variants as competitors allows measuring their relative affinities for the targeted factor as compared to the probe. The use of primary antibodies against several transcription factors CREB ATF WT1 NFATC1 from Santa Cruz Biotechnolgy CA USA SP1 from emd biosciences WI USA and EGR1 from Panomics CA USA allows detecting the relative specificity of decoy sequences for multiple factors. Competition curves were fitted with the exponential decay equation.

The plantar surface of left hind paw of Sprague Dawley Rats male 250 300 g was injected 30 G needle with 150 l of Complete Freund Adjuvant CFA . Von Frey filaments of 1 g and 6 g were used to test for mechanical responsiveness i.e. allodynia of the hind paw. Briefly each Von Frey filament was applied 5 times and the number of paw withdrawals was counted. Animals were habituated on a mesh floor 1 hour prior to testing. Basal mechanical sensitivity of animals was tested before SEQ ID NO. 42 and CFA treatments. All experiments were conducted blinded.

SEQ ID NO. 42 was synthesized and HPLC purified by Integrated DNA Technology IA USA . Decoy duplexes were annealed as described previously in TE pH 8 at a 2 mM final concentration and injected intrathecally in rats with 13 nmoles injection 20 l total diluted 1 3 TE pH 8 . The injection testing schedule was as follows 

Control animals are injected with only TE as a vehicle following the same schedule. For intrathecal injections rats were anesthetized with 2 Isoflurane their backs shaved and prepared with Betadine. Rats were then was placed on a bottle to keep the back arched. A 17 G needle was slid rostrally along left side of L6 transverse process till it reached L5. The needle was then inserted between L5 and L6 until the intrathecal space was reached as indicated by tail twitch.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications both to materials and methods may be practiced without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

