---

title: Systems and methods for forecasting ad inventory
abstract: The solution of the ad delivery platform described herein provides for the marketing and monetizing of media assets via the delivery of advertisement with on-demand video. The ad platform optimizes the delivery of ads by controlling the insertion frequency and format of the ad delivered with video streams. The ad platform provides flexible and configurable ad insertion rules to specify the insertion frequency and format for the composition of ads during playback of on-demand video media. The ad insertion rules may be based on a user profile, user behavior history, topic of the stream to be delivered, duration of the video or ad, and/or the popularity rating of the video or ad. The ad platform includes a reporting tool and usage reports to measure the effectiveness of the ad insertion rules in delivering ads to market and monetize the video media. The ad platform also includes an ad inventory management and forecasting tool for determining the available inventory of ad placement based on data collected over a period of time regarding the delivery of ads and the ad insertion rules to be used for the delivery of a desired ad. With these tools, a more effective ad campaign can be created based on the target information and optimization via the ad insertion rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316392&OS=08316392&RS=08316392
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08316392
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080606
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 943 244 entitled Systems and Method for Inserting Ads During Playback of Video Media and filed on Jun. 11 2007 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This patent application generally relates to an advertising serving platform for dynamically inserting and delivering ads during playback of on demand video media.

As the number of people communicating over a publicly accessible communication network such as the Internet continues to grow the use availability and distribution of media content via the Internet such as video and audio media files grows as well. The popularity of delivering and experiencing media content via the Internet continues to grow because the Internet provides for both immediacy of the media and interactivity of the media. Media content can provide a rich interactive user experience from a network connected device. In addition media content delivered to computing devices via a network may receive input from the user or information about the user to both personalize and dynamically enhance the user experience thereby further increasing the immediacy and interactivity of the medium. As such delivering media content via the Internet is quickly gaining adoption as a mechanism for reaching consumers for purposes of marketing and monetizing media assets.

Some of the challenges with marketing and monetizing media assets over the Internet such as broadband video are due to the ubiquitous and on demand nature of the medium. Web sites provide a wide range of video content varying in content type duration and quality. Many web sites make video content accessible at the request or upon demand of the user. Users may search find select and play video media when they want. Video media is also available to users from a wide range of network connected devices such as cell phones and other mobile devices. As such users may access video media from where ever they want. During playback of the video users typically have control of the playing of the video via the media player. For example the user may pause rewind stop or fast forward the playing of the video. Thus users may be able to view the video for how ever long they want and in a manner they want.

The solution of the ad delivery platform described herein provides for the marketing and monetizing of media assets via the delivery of advertisement with on demand video. The ad platform optimizes the delivery of ads by controlling the insertion frequency and format of the ad delivered with video streams. The ad platform provides flexible and configurable ad insertion rules to specify the insertion frequency and format for the composition of ads during playback of on demand video media. The ad insertion rules may be based on a user profile user behavior history topic of the stream to be delivered duration of the video or ad and or the popularity rating of the video or ad. The ad platform includes a reporting tool and usage reports to measure the effectiveness of the ad insertion rules in delivering ads to market and monetize the video media. The ad platform also includes an ad inventory management and forecasting tool for determining the available inventory of ad placement based on data collected over a period of time regarding the delivery of ads and the use of as insertion rules. With these tools a more effective ad campaign can be created based on the campaign s target information and optimization via the ad insertion rules.

In one aspect the present invention is related to a method for displaying an ad during a playback of a video media at an insertion point during playback specified by an ad insertion rule and using a format for the ad specified by the ad insertion rule. The method includes receiving a request to playback a video media and identifying an ad insertion rule associated with the video media. The ad insertion rule may specify an insertion point during playback of the video media to display an ad. The ad insertion rule may also specify a format for displaying the ad at the insertion point. The method also includes determining a point during playback of the video media corresponding to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule. In response to the determination the method includes displaying the ad at the determined point during playback of the video media using the format for the ad specified by the ad insertion rule.

The ad insertion rule may specify a frequency for inserting ads at multiple insertion points during the playback of video media. The ad insertion rule may specify the frequency based on a length of the video media. The ad insertion rule may also specify a format displaying an ad during playback of the video media based on a length of the video media. For example the ad insertion rule may identify a length of time for displaying the ad a location of the ad or a type of ad to display.

In some embodiments the method includes identifying a user requesting playback of the video media. The method may include obtaining a profile or a behavior history of the identified user. The profile may include one or more of the following information name age group topics of interest gender geographic location ethnic background household income education level and children in household. The method may also include obtaining the behavior history of the identified user having the following information average viewing period trend in popular topics number of streams days and hours of streaming and Internet protocol address mapping to location. The behavior history of the identified user may also include one or more of the following user actions on a media player mute pause restart full screen mid point viewing complete viewing fast forward rewind and may include any actions such as a mouse over hover or identify that the user initiated play via a click through.

In other embodiments the method includes identifying the popularity rating of the video media requested for playback. In another embodiment the method include identifying the popularity rating or the ad specified by the ad insertion rule associated with the requested video media. In some cases the popularity rating may be based on a number of views of the video media such as the most popular videos or ads having the highest number of views.

In one embodiment the method includes determining the point during playback of the video media corresponds to a period of time indicated by the frequency. The point in playback of the video media may be determined to correspond to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule based on the profile or the behavior history of the identified user. In some cases the point during playback of the video media may be determined to correspond to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule based on the identified popularity rating of the video and or the ad.

In one embodiment the method includes displaying the ad for the length specified by the ad insertion rule based on the length of the requested video media. The ad also may be displayed at a location specified by the ad insertion rule based on the length of the requested video media. In some embodiments the ad may be displayed at a location for a length of time or having a predetermined ad type based on the profile or the behavior history of the identified user. In another case the ad may be displayed at a location for a length of time or having a predetermined ad type based on the identified popularity rating of the video or ad. The method may include increasing or decreasing a frequency of ads displayed during playback of the video media based on the identified popularity rating. Any one or more of the following types of ads may be displayed responsive to an ad insertion rule gateway interstitial bumper context positioning a spot a bug telescoping interactive video video curtains video roadblocks ticker lay and shadow ad.

In another aspect the present invention is related to dynamically inserting an ad during playback of a video media based on an action of a user via a media player. The includes receiving a request by a user to playback a video media via a media player and identifying an ad insertion rule associated with a video media. The ad insertion rule may specify an insertion point for displaying an ad during playback of the video media based on one or more actions of a user via the media player during a playback session of the video media. The method includes detecting one or more actions of the user via the media player during the playback session of the video media and determining a point during playback of the video media corresponding to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule based on the detected one or more actions of the user. The playback session may include a user session s with a web site or a user session s with a media player. The method further include displaying the ad specified by the ad insertion rule at the point during playback of the video media based on the determination.

In some embodiments the method includes detecting a length of time of the playback session is greater than or less than a predetermined length of time. In another embodiment the method includes detecting the user has taken one or more of the following actions via the media player mute pause restart full screen fast forward and rewind. The method may include displaying the ad at a location for a length of time or having a predetermined type based on the detected one or more actions of the user. The frequency of ad insertion or format of the ad may be changed based on the detected one or more actions of the user. For example the location of the ad or a length of time for displaying the ad may be changed based on a detected action of the user.

In other aspects the present invention is related to a method for dynamically displaying an ad into a playback of a video media based on actions of a user at a web site providing the video media. The method includes receiving a request by a user to playback a video media via a web site and identifying an ad insertion rule with a video media. The ad insertion rule may specify an insertion point for displaying an ad during playback of the video media based on one or more actions of the user at a web site. The user s visit to the web site may include a playback of video via a media player. The method includes detecting one or more actions of the user at the web site and determining a point during playback of the video media corresponding to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule based on the identified one or more actions of the user. The ad may be displayed in accordance with the ad insertion rule at the point during playback of the video media based on the determination. For example the ad may be displayed at a location for a length of time or having a predetermined type based on the detected one or more actions of the user at the web site.

In one embodiment the method includes detecting a length of the user s visit at the web site greater than or less than a predetermined length of time. In some cases the type of content the user viewed at the web site is detected. In other cases the user interface element selected by the user at the web site are detected such as the URLs the user visited. The frequency of ad insertion or format of the ad may be changed based on the detected one or more actions of the user at the web site. For example a location of the ad or a length of time for displaying the ad may be changed based on the detected one or more actions of the user at the web site.

In yet another aspect the present invention is related to a method of generating a usage report for an ad insertion rule. The usage report provides information about delivery of ads at a plurality of insertion points during playback of video media. The delivery of ads may be controlled by applying one or more ad insertion rules which specify a format a frequency or an insertion point for displaying the ad during a playback of video media. The method includes collecting data regarding delivery of ads at insertion points during playback of video media. The method includes identifying an ad insertion rule from the one or more ad insertion rules. The method includes generating from the collected data a report providing a number of ads that were delivered by application of the identified ad insertion rule during the playback of the video media.

In some embodiments the method includes collecting data providing temporal information on the insertion points at which the ads were displayed during playback of video media. A report may be generated from the collected data the report to identify one or more points in time of the insertion points at which the ads were delivered during the playback of the video media. The report may identify the one or more points in time the ads were delivered in relation to a length in time of the video media or a length of time of playback of the video media.

In another embodiment the method includes collecting data identifying a profile or behavior of a user associated with the ad insertion rule with the insertion points at which the ads were displayed during playback of video media. A report may be generated from the collected data the report providing information from the profile or the behavior history of the user. The report may be generated to maintain anonymity of the user. Data may be collected identifying one or more user actions of a user via a player of the video media. A report may be generated from the collected data identifying the one or more user actions associated with each of ads delivered at each of the insertion points during the playback of the video media. A report may also be generated from the collected data identifying user actions taken within the delivered ad.

In other embodiments the method includes collecting data identifying a format for each ad delivered via the ad insertion rule. The format may include a type location or a length of the ad. A report may be generated from the collected data identifying the format used for each of the ads delivered at each of the insertion points during the playback of the video media. In some embodiments the report may identify the number of delivered ads by format. A generated report may also identify a rule criteria that was met in triggering the one or more ad insertion rules.

In another aspect the present invention is related a system generating a usage report for an ad insertion rule. The usage report provides information about delivery of ads at a insertion points during playback of video media. The video media may include a plurality of video media of variable length and the playback of each of the video media may be of variable duration. For example the user may determine the duration of the playback. The delivery of ads may be controlled by applying one or more ad insertion rules. The one or more ad insertion rules may specify a format a frequency or an insertion point for displaying the ad during playback of video media. The system includes a data collection service collecting data regarding delivery of ads at insertion points during playback of video media. The system may include a user interface for identifying an ad insertion rule from the one or more ad insertion rules. The system also includes a reporting service generating from the collected data a report providing a number of ads that were delivered by application of the identified ad insertion rule during the playback of the video media. The data collection reporting service and user interface of the system may be deployed as a software as a service.

In some embodiments the data collection service collects data providing temporal information on the insertion points at which the ads were displayed during playback of video media. The reporting service may generate from the collected data the report to identify one or more points in time of the insertion points at which the ads were delivered during the playback of the video media. The reporting service may generate from the collected data the report to identify the one or more points in time the ads were delivered in relation to a length in time of the video media or a length of time of playback of the video media.

In other embodiments the data collection service collects data identifying a profile or behavior of a user associated with the insertion points at which the ads were displayed during playback of video media. The reporting service may generate from the collected data the report providing information from the profile or the behavior history of the user. The reporting service generates from the collected data the report identifying user actions taken within the delivered ad.

In another embodiment of the system the data collection service collects data identifying a format for each ad delivered via the ad insertion rule. The format may include a type location or a length of the ad. The reporting service may generate from the collected data the report identifying the format used for each of the ads delivered at each of the insertion points during the playback of the video media The data collection service may collect data identifying one or more user actions of a user via a player of the video media. The reporting service may generate from the collected data the report identifying the one or more user actions associated with each of the ads delivered at each of the insertion points during the playback of the video media. The reporting service may also generate from the collected data the report to identify the number of delivered ads by format.

In yet another aspect the presenting invention is related to a method for forecasting total inventory for an ad to be displayed during playback of video media of variable length. The ad may be dynamically inserted during playback based on one or more ad insertion rules and the duration of playback may be of a variable length dynamically determined by a user. The method includes collecting data on delivery of video media to one or more users and delivery of ads during playback of each of the video media. The delivery of ads may be based on applying one or more ad insertion rules during playback of video media. The method also includes identifying from the collected data a number of times each of the video media was played during a time period and a number of ads delivered via the ad insertion rules at the insertion points during playback of each of the video media over the time period. The method also includes receiving input identifying an ad requested to be delivered during playback of the video media by applying a set of one or more ad insertion rules and determining a forecast of a total inventory for the requested ad based on the identified number of times each of the video media was played the identified number of ads delivered during playback of each of the video media and the identified set of one or more ad insertion rules. The forecast of the total inventory may be determined using a time series forecasting method.

In one embodiment the method includes receiving input from a user identifying the set of one or more ad insertion rules for determining the forecast. The forecast of the total inventory may be determining one of estimating or predicting a number of times an ad may be displayed during playback of the video media by applying the identified set of one or more ad insertion rules. In some embodiments the method includes identifying from the collected data a day or a time during which each of the video media was played during the time period. The forecast of the total inventory may be determined based on the identified day or the identified time of the played video media and received input identifying a day or a time to deliver the requested ad.

In other embodiments the method includes identifying from the collected data an audience segment for each of the video media played during the time period. The audience segment may be identified based on a portion of a day or a day part. The forecast of the total inventory may be determined based on the identified audience segment of the played video media and received input identifying a predetermined audience segment for which to deliver the requested ad.

In some aspects the present invention is related to a method for forecasting a what if scenario of total inventory for an ad to be displayed during playback of video media of variable length. The ad may be dynamically inserted during playback based on one or more ad insertion rules. The duration of playback may be of a variable length dynamically determined by a user. The method includes collecting data on delivery of a plurality of video media to one or more users and delivery of ads during playback of each of the plurality of video media the delivery of ads based on applying one or more ad insertion rules during playback of video media. The method also includes identifying from the collected data a number of times each of the video media was played during a time period and a number of ads delivered via the ad insertion rules at points in time during playback of each of the video media over the time period. The method also includes receiving input identifying an ad requested to be delivered during playback of the plurality of video media changing one or more ad insertion rules to be applied for the requested ad during playback of the video media and determining a forecast of a total inventory for the requested ad based on the identified number of times each of the media was played the identified number of ads delivered during playback of each of the video media and the changed one or more ad insertion rules.

In some embodiments the forecast of the total inventory may be determined by estimating or predicting a number of times an ad may be displayed during playback of the video media by applying the changed one or more ad insertion rules. The forecast of the total inventory may also be determined based on the identified audience segment of the played video media and received input identifying a predetermined audience segment for which to deliver the requested ad. One or more of a target day a time a genre audience segment or quantity for delivering the requested ad may be changed and the forecast of the total inventory may be determined based on these changes.

In yet another aspect the present invention is related to a method for forecasting a what if scenario of a total inventory for an ad to be displayed during playback of video media based on target information. The method includes collecting data on delivery of video media to one or more users and delivery of ads during playback of each of the plurality of video media. The delivery of ads based on applying one or more ad insertion rules during playback of video media. The method includes identifying from the collected data a number of times each of the video media was played during a time period and a number of ads delivered via the ad insertion rules at points in time during playback of each of the video media over the time period. The method includes receiving input identifying an ad requested to be delivered during playback of the video media and input identifying target information including a target audience a target time period or a category for the requested ad. The method further includes the step of determining a forecast of a total inventory for the requested ad based on the identified number of times each of the video media was played the identified number of ads delivered during playback of each of the video media and the identified target information. One or more of the target audience the target time period or the category for delivering the requested ad may be changes and the forecast of the total inventory determined based on these changes.

The details of various embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

Certain illustrative embodiments of the present invention are described below. It is however expressly noted that the present invention is not limited to these embodiments but rather the intention is that additions and modifications to what is expressly described herein also are included within the scope of the invention. Moreover it is to be understood that the features of the various embodiments described herein are not mutually exclusive and can exist in various combinations and permutations even if such combinations or permutations are not expressly made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The illustrative embodiments of the media delivery platform described herein provide a solution for creating distributing and managing intelligent and cost effective delivery of video audio and broadband media content over a network such as the Internet to desktop mobile computing and network connected devices. In some embodiments the media delivery platform provides an Internet Protocol or IP TV platform to create distribute and manage Internet based or broadband based video such as direct to consumer broadband video channels. The media platform provides Internet based video publishing syndication and community building functionality and services. The media delivery platform also provides content and advertising network integration in support of monetizing media assets via delivery of Internet based advertisement in conjunction with video.

In some embodiments and as will be discussed in greater detail below the media delivery platform includes an ad delivery platform or ad platform to provide functionality for the delivery of on demand video advertisement. The ad platform provides a solution for the composition of ads in video streams by controlling ad insertion frequency and format of the ad based on information such as a user profile user behavior history topic of the stream to be delivered duration of the video or ad and or the popularity rating of the video or ad. The ad platform provides flexible and user configurable ad insertion rules to determine the insertion frequency and format for the delivery of ads during playback of on demand video media. The ad platform also provides a reporting tool and usage reports identifying delivery of ads based on these ad insertion rules. In other embodiments the ad platform also includes an ad inventory management and forecasting tool for determining the available inventory of ad placement based on data collected over a period of time regarding the delivery of ads and the one or more ad insertion rules to be used for the delivery of a desired ad.

Prior to discussing the details of the embodiments of the media delivery platform of the present solution a computing environment for operating the media delivery platform or any portions thereof is discussed. depict block diagrams of a computing device and in some embodiments also referred to as a network connected device useful for practicing an embodiment of the systems described herein. As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a typical computing device may include a visual display device a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse. In some embodiments the visual display device and any related hardware and or software supports and is capable of displaying high definition video as described in detail further herein. Each computing device may also include additional optional elements such as one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.

Main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor such as Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with various I O devices via a local system bus . Various busses may be used to connect the central processing unit to any of the I O devices including a VESA VL bus an ISA bus an EISA bus a MicroChannel Architecture MCA bus a PCI bus a PCI X bus a PCI Express bus or a NuBus. For embodiments in which the I O device is a video display the processor may use an Advanced Graphics Port AGP to communicate with the display . depicts an embodiment of a computer in which the main processor communicates directly with I O device via HyperTransport Rapid I O or InfiniBand. also depicts an embodiment in which local busses and direct communication are mixed the processor communicates with I O device using a local interconnected bus while communicating with I O device directly.

The computing device may support any suitable installation device such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5 inch 5.25 inch disks or ZIP disks a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device hard drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as any software or portion thereof related to the intelligent delivery system described herein. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the intelligent delivery system . Optionally any of the installation devices could also be used as the storage device .

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. of Los Alamitos Calif. In one embodiment the computing device may provide a USB connection to receive a media playing or media storage device such as an iPod device manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif.

In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.

A computing device of the sort depicted in typically operate under the control of operating systems which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any network operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or network devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS XP all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In other embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. The computing device can be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server handheld computer mobile telephone or other portable telecommunication device media playing device a gaming system or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. For example the computing device may comprise a device of the iPod family of devices manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. a Playstation 2 Playstation 3 or Personal Playstation Portable PSP device manufactured by the Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan a Nintendo DS or Nintendo Revolution device manufactured by Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto Japan or a Xbox or Xbox 360 device manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

Referring now to an embodiment of an environment and architecture of a media delivery platform or media platform is depicted. In brief overview the media platform is in communication with a network to deliver media such as video to one or more network connected devices such as clients A N also generally referred herein as client s . The media platform may reside operate or execute on one or more computing devices such as servers A N also generally referred herein as server s . The media platform may also communicate with a second network such as to a server of a content and or advertising service provider or application. The media platform may obtain from the servers A N media assets and or advertisements for delivery to the clients . The media platform may include one or more of the following services for creating and managing delivery of video media over a network to one or more clients 1 media management 2 workflow and publishing 3 player experience 4 analytics and reporting and 5 advertising . The media platform provides a user interface referred to as a console for accessing the functionality operations or logic provided by these services.

The media management service of the media platform provides functionality operations and or logic to upload and manage media files with associated metadata. The media management service also controls how media is accessed and consumed by applying business rules. The media management service may provide services for automated video ingestion and multi format transcoding of media. Also the media management service may provide functionality to enrich or add additional data to the metadata associated with a video. The workflow and publishing services provides an application via the console to allow a user to select and customize media players search and select content build play lists of media and content and or publish players to websites and network connected devices. The player experience services provides functionality to enable a user to create a media player based on player template and or to customize or create a custom player using a player development toolkit.

The advertising services of the media platform provides functionality for the delivery of advertisement such as Internet based and video ads in conjunction with delivery of video media to network connected devices . In one embodiment the advertising services includes an ad server platform discussed in further detail below to create manage and use ad insertion rules to control and or optimize the timing and format of delivery of ads during playback of video media. The advertising services may integrate or communicate with content and advertisement providers applications or systems such as those provided by Lightningcast Inc. of Washington D.C. which is owned by AOL LLC of Dulles Va. or by DoubleClick Inc. of New York N.Y. The analytics and reporting services provides alerts reports and or dashboards to provide information on performance and operation of delivery of video media and advertisements via the media platform . In one embodiment the ad server platform provides usage reports on the delivery of ads via ad insertion rules.

In some embodiments the media platform includes the Maven Internet TV Platform or any portion thereof manufactured or otherwise provided by Maven Networks Inc. of Cambridge Mass. In other embodiments the media platform includes any of the services functionality and or software or portions thereof manufactured or otherwise provided by Brightcove Inc. of Cambridge Mass. In some embodiments the media platform or portions thereof is provided as a Software As A Service SAAS model or under an Application Service Provider model. In other embodiments the media platform or portions thereof may be provided embodied as an appliance. The media platform may include software hardware or any combination thereof. Any of the services of the media platform may comprise an application program library script service process task or any other type and or form of executable instructions. These services may be implemented as any type and form of web services via Extensible Markup Language XML or any other type and form of programming or scripting language methodology or architecture.

The console includes any type and form of graphical user interface for providing displaying or otherwise accessing the functionality logic or operations provided by the services of the media platform . The console may include an application program library script service process task or any other type and or form of executable instructions. In some embodiments the console is a browser based interface. In one embodiment the console includes any type and form of Rich Internet Application. In other embodiments the console provides content such as web page files e.g. AJAX HTML file Dynamic HTML DHTML Flash within HTML ActiveX or JavaScript to display via a user interface.

Although shows a network and a network also generally referred herein as network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . The networks and can be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network and or the network can be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. In one embodiment network may be a private network and network may be a public network. In some embodiments network may be a private network and network a public network. In another embodiment networks and may both be private networks. In some embodiments a client may be located at a remote location communicating via a WAN connection over the network to the servers located at a corporate data center.

The network and or be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network and or may be a bus star or ring network topology. The network and or and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein.

The media platform may be used to deliver video media and or advertisement to a client via a media player. Referring now to embodiments of a client for receiving delivery of video content and or ads are depicted. In brief overview a client A may include a browser for connecting to communicating with and receiving content via a network from one or more servers . The client A may connect via the browser to a web site providing a media player such as a media player embedded in online content of a web page. In some embodiments the client A browser or player may access offline content via memory or storage accessible by client A such as via a cache. In other embodiments the browser or player provides access to both online and offline content.

The browser comprises any type and or form of application program service library process or set of executable instructions for accessing content via a network such as the Internet using uniform resource locators. The browser may include any type and form of graphical user interface. The browser may be for example a Microsoft Internet Explorer browser and or Netscape browser or a FireFox browser.

In another embodiment a client B may include a media player or application for playing media such as video and or for displaying any type and form of graphical user interfaces. In one embodiment the player or application provides access to or plays downloaded or offline content. In some embodiment the player accesses content or receives delivery of content via a network . In one embodiment the player provides access to both online and offline content.

The media player may include any type and or form of software hardware or combination of software and hardware for experiencing running or otherwise playing a media in any form such as various types and forms of information and data electronic digital or otherwise for conveying information via text audio graphics animation video and or interactivity. In some cases multimedia may also refer to the use of a plurality of media such as video audio and data. Additionally the media to be played by the media player may be in any form or unit of information such as a file data structure or object in memory data or information stored on physical media of a storage device or I O device of a computing device or data signals transmitted or propagated via a network e.g. streaming media. Furthermore the type and or format of the media may include a container format such as 3gp AVI ASF Matroska MOV MP4 NUT Ogg RealMedia a video codec such as 3ivx Cinepak DivX DV H.263 H.264 MPEG 4 AVC HuffYUV Indeo MJPEG MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 RealVideo Sorenson Theora WMV XviD and or audio codecs such as AAC AC3 ALAC AMR FLAC MP3 RealAudio Shorten Speex Vorbis and WMA. In these embodiments the media player may read and process a media of any type and or format.

In some embodiments the media player comprises an application program library script service process task or any other type and or form of executable instructions. In one embodiment the media player comprises one of the following the Windows Media Player manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. iTunes or QuickTime manufactured by Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. RealPlayer manufactured by RealNetworks Inc. of Seattle Wash. or Macromedia Flash Player manufactured by Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. In other embodiments the media player includes any custom proprietary open source shareware freeware or any other type of application program or executable instructions capable of playing media either for a specific purpose or otherwise for an general or desired purposes. Additionally the media player may include any type and or form of user interface graphical or otherwise for accessing controlling managing or otherwise providing input and or receiving output regarding media and or the playing of media.

Referring now to an embodiment of the media management services of the media platform is depicted. In brief overview the media management service includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 media ingestion 2 support for external media assets 3 video transcoding 4 thumbnail generation and video sizing services 5 metadata extraction and 6 metadata management .

The media ingestion services or component provides an interface and mechanism for uploading content via any type and form of protocol. In one embodiment the media ingestion service provides a browser based media upload interface for uploading media via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP or File Transfer Protocol FTP . In some embodiments the media ingestion service provides for bulk upload of multiple media files assets or content from one or more sources such as servers . For example the media ingestion service may use any type and form of bulk or batch FTP transfers to upload multiple media files. In other embodiments the media ingestion service interfaces integrates or communicated with an external system or application to obtain or transfer media. For example the media ingestion service may interface with a content management system CMS or a digital asset management DAM system. The media ingestion service may store any ingested media into any type and form of storage or memory of the one or more computing devices used by the media platform .

The external media asset services component may provide any type and form of interface and mechanism for identifying managing maintaining or otherwise supporting the use of media assets and files stored in storage external to the media platform such as on a server . The external media asset services may use any type and form of database or tracking system to identify and track externally stored media.

The transcoding service includes any type and form of executable instructions logic or function for converting media content from one format or codec to another format or codec. In some embodiments the transcoding service automatically converts ingested media to a predetermined format or codec for use by the media platform . In one embodiment the process of transcoding is the digital to digital conversion of media from one format or codec to another format or codec. In another embodiment the transcoding service changes a media from one bitrate to another bitrate for example decreasing the bitrate of a media. In some embodiment the transcoding service coverts from a lossless format to a lossy format. In other embodiments the transcoding service decodes a first format into an intermediate format and then encodes the intermediate format into a second format. The transcoding service may support the encoding decoding conversion or translation of any media format and or bitrate including but not limited to Flash Video format FLV and Windows Media Video format WMV .

The thumbnail and video sizing service includes any type and form of interface and mechanism for generating a different sized version of an ingested or externally controlled media file. In one embodiment the service automatically generates a thumbnail media file for any received or ingested media file. In other embodiments the service automatically generates one or more different versions of an ingested media file each having a different size. In another embodiment the service received a media file and modifies the media file to have a different size. In some embodiment the service modifies converts or generates a media file providing a video of a different resolution.

The metadata extraction service provides an interface and mechanism for extracting any information and or metadata associated with a media file or asset such as metadata transferred with a video. In some embodiments the metadata extraction service automatically extracts or otherwise obtains metadata from ingested video files. The metadata may include data identifying runtime format and or bitrate information regarding a video. In one embodiment the service extracts metadata from the video or media file. In other embodiments the service extracts metadata from a file data structure or objects associated with the video or media file.

The metadata management service provides logic function rules and or operations to create edit modify or otherwise manage any information and or metadata associated with a media file or asset. In one embodiment the metadata management service provides an interface to extend metadata fields associated with media such as any of the following fields title short description long description genre classification keywords thumbnail available date expiration data and geography restrictions. In another embodiment the metadata management service provides a user interface for a user to create edit or modify fields and values of the fields of the metadata associated with the media.

Referring now to an embodiment of the workflow and publishing services of the media platform is depicted. In brief overview the workflow and publishing services includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 role based permissions 2 concurrent publishing 3 playlist creation 4 staging services and 5 search engine optimization .

The role based permission functionality provides an interface and mechanism to configure roles and permission for any user of the media platform . The role based permission may provide any type and form of user interface to create edit and modify roles and permission for users or groups or category of users. The role based permissions can include rules controlling which affiliates or business partners can access content and what type of access the affiliate or business partner has. The role based permissions can include rules on what content an end user may have access to and the type of access. For example a role based permission rule may control where an end user or consumer can view content geographically or by location.

The publishing features of the publishing service provides workflow functionality interfaces and logic for video channels to be created edit managed and published. In some embodiments the publishing features provide for multiple video channels to be concurrently or simultaneously created edit managed and published. In some embodiments this enables multiple users to work on different editions of the same video channel in parallel.

The playlist creation service provides an interface and mechanism for a user to identify select organize and or arrange a list of video media such as by video titles to be played by a media player . In some embodiments the playlist creation service provides for the creation of dynamic playlists that update content automatically based on one or more of the following video title description genre keywords dates and owner based rules. The staging services portion of the service provides for the provisioning of a staging environment to test any configuration or portion of the media platform. In some embodiment the staging service provides a secure environment to review and test a media player and or a published video channel.

The search engine optimization service includes any type and form of logic functions or operations to optimize the search of video media provided via the media platform in one or more target search engines. The search engine optimization service may generate an Extensible Markup Language sitemap for any content or video channel created published or managed via the media platform . In some cases the search engine optimization service generates a Media RSS or MRSS data for syndicating multimedia files in RSS feeds. In one embodiment the Media RSS content generated by the search engine optimization service is used to feed media files into Yahoo Video Search manufactured by Yahoo Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. which is a feature of Yahoo Search that allows to search for video files. In some embodiments the search engine optimization service converts dynamic content to be published via a media player into one or more snapshots of static content and feeds these snapshots of information to a search engine. As new content for a player becomes available the search engine optimization service may automatically convert the new content into static content and feed the converted content to the search engine.

Referring now to an embodiment of the player experience services of the media platform is depicted. In brief overview the player experience services includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 player templates 2 pre built player functionality 3 branding control and 4 a flash toolkit .

The player experience service includes one or more player templates . In one embodiment a player template is a pre built media player that may be further customized by a user or otherwise used as provided. In other embodiments a player template includes pre built content to be used by or access via a media player . This pre built content may be further customized by a user or otherwise used as provided. The player template may include any type and form of player content or use any type of script programming or media player authoring language or tool such as Flash and or Dynamic HyperText Markup Language DHTML content. In some embodiments the console provides a graphical user interface to create edit modify manage or otherwise provide a player template . In other embodiments the console provides a graphical user interface to create edit modify manage or otherwise provide a media player using a pre built player template .

The player experience services may also include any type and form of pre built player functionality such as for example any of the following player features 1 category navigation 2 playback control 3 volume control 4 expanded video windows window controls 5 send to a friend 6 embed video and player links 7 community site embedding 8 RSS subscription 9 search 10 links 11 auto play and 12 add to favorites. Via scripting programming or any other type and form of media player authoring tool or language additional desired features for a media player may be added to a pre built template or to the pre built player functionality . For example a user may author Flash or Dynamic HTML content that be added selected and used as part of the player experience services .

The branding control component of the player experience services provides branding control of a media player via user interface functionality and configuration of the console . The branding control provides an interface and mechanisms to configure the graphical representation and presentation of a media player . In some embodiments the branding control provides a What You See Is What You Get WYSIWYG environment for designing and configuring the graphical look and feel of a media player . With the branding control configuration a user may design configure or provide a media player with a graphical representation that matches corresponds or identifies with a company company logo or enterprise branding.

The player experience services also includes in some embodiments a Flash toolkit to allow a user to create edit manage or customize one or more media players either from a pre built template or otherwise. The Flash toolkit may provide a development environment for a user to design create edit or test any type and form of Flash or DHTML content. The toolkit may include an application programming interface to access any of the functionality of any of the services of the media platform . Although the toolkit is generally referred to as using the Flash media authoring language the toolkit may be designed and constructed for any type and form of media authoring language and may provide a development for a user create any media player and associated content with a media authoring language.

Referring now to an embodiment of the analytics services of the media platform is depicted. In brief overview the analytics services includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 measurement functions 2 pre built reports 3 viral reporting 4 affiliate level access 5 Quality of Service and 6 exporting .

The measurement functions of the analytics services include any type and form of function logic or operations to detect measure track and or collect data associated with any action activity or transaction occurring via the media platform or any portion thereof. In some embodiments the measurement functions detect and tracks actions of a user via the media player such as player control actions or navigation patterns. In other embodiments the measurement functions detects and tracks actions of a user via a web site providing the video media or media player . The measurement functions may detect measure and track any activity of a media player a user or any operation of the media platform on a predetermined frequency such as every hour or on a daily basis. For example the measurement functions may measure the number of playbacks and duration of the playback for any one or more video clips. In another example the measurement functions may measure the number of views clicks user actions or revenue generated in association with any one or more videos such as to identify which video content or video channel is generating the most views clicks user actions or associated revenue.

The analytics services may provide one or more pre built reports . The pre built reports comprise any type and form of reporting user interface such as a dashboard to visually present information related to the measurement performance and or operation of the media platform or the delivery of content and or advertisement via the media platform . In some embodiments a pre built report provides information related to the measurement performance and or operation of a video clip group of video clips or a video channel.

The analytics services may also include via the viral reporting functionality the measurement and tracking of information related to the use and playing of video content and media players distributed to a plurality of users. For example the viral reporting functionality and or a measurement function may track the number location and users receiving or using video content and media players distributed via the media platform such as via a published video channel. For example users or consumers of a published video channel may share and embed published content to other web sites blogs and community sites. The viral reporting functionality identifies and provides a report on the number location and identity of these sites having the content. From the viral reporting functionality a report may be provided to identify the viral sites having the most content traffic or generating the most revenue.

The analytics services may provide functionality to control the access of affiliates to any of the reports dashboard and operational or performance measurement information provided by the analytics services. Via the affiliate level access control a publisher of content or content owner may design configure and control the reporting information any affiliate may access via the media platform . In some embodiments the affiliate level access control may be used to provide different levels of access to different affiliates. In other embodiments the affiliate level access control may be used to provide different reports such as different pre built reports to each affiliate.

The analytics services may also include a Quality of Service QoS measurement diagnostic and reporting functionality . In some embodiments the QoS functionality detects measures diagnoses and provides analytical reports on the availability operation and or performance of network level service application level services and the performance with respect to the user s experience with consuming or viewing content via the media platform . In one embodiment the QoS includes any portion of the Keynote Stream Perspective product manufactured by Keynote Systems Inc. of San Mateo Calif.

The analytics service may also include exporting functionality to convert translate encode or otherwise provide data from any data report or information accessible by or via the analytics service to a predetermined format such as Extensible Markeup Language XML Microsoft Excel format XLS or Abode s Portable Document Format PDF .

Referring now to an embodiment of the advertising services of the media platform is depicted. The advertising service provides functionality and support to monetize media assets via use of advertisement such as online video or Internet based advertisement. In brief overview the advertising services includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 ad network integration 2 advertising formats 3 affiliate ad network support and an ad server platform .

The advertising services of the media platform includes an ad network integration component to interface communicate and coordinate with advertisement network providers . An ad network comprises any type and form of aggregator or broker of advertising inventory for many web sites. In some embodiments an ad network is considered a sales representative for the web sites within a network. In one embodiment the ad network includes any of the advertisement services and products provided by Lightingcast. In another embodiment the ad network includes any of the advertisement services and products provided by DoubleClick. The ad network integration components may include any type and form of application programming interface programming language and tools and use any type and form of one or more communication networking or application layer protocols to interface or communicate with an ad network .

In some embodiments the ad network integration provides interfaces and communicates with multiple ad networks concurrently simultaneously subsequently or otherwise. The advertising services includes support for affiliate ad networks by providing functionality to allow the use of multiple ad networks from a single account. In this manner and in some embodiments each affiliate or business partner can use an affiliate determined or specified ad network to manage and sell advertisement inventory.

The advertising services provide an interface and configuration mechanism to design configure or otherwise create and use any type and form of format for advertising. An ad may comprise any visual or graphical information representation or display. An ad may include video audio data text graphics pictures HTML DHTML Flash or web page content applets programming language scripts uniform resource locators or any combination thereof. The ad format may include any type and form of video effects or overlays such as a bug style ad format or video curtain type of ad format. As will be described in further detail below an ad format may specify the type location and duration of an ad. For example an ad format may specify the ad as a pre or post roll video. In some embodiments the advertising formats includes any of the formats supported specified or identified by the Interactive Advertising Bureau IAB and or any of the IAN standards or guidelines.

Referring now to an embodiment of the syndication services of the media platform is depicted. The syndication services allow a publisher or distributor of video media to control the reach of distribution and media consumption of video assets. Syndication services provide affiliate account set up and allow the video asset owner to control which services of the media platform the affiliate has access to such as any of the media management workflow and publishing player experience analytics advertising and community services described herein. For example a video asset owner can configure affiliate accounts in the media platform to determine which affiliates can access the assets and specify the geographical regions where the video may be viewed. Further to the example the video asset owner may control if the video content is played by a provided player or in the affiliate s media player.

In brief overview the syndication services includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 affiliate management 2 video ingestion workflow 3 media control 4 national local advertising services and 5 media playlist and player syndication services .

The affiliate management of the syndication services includes any type and form of function logic or operations and user interface to provide setup management and configuration of one or more affiliate accounts. Via the console a user may setup or otherwise establish an account which may be referred to as account registration. The data or information of the account may identify one or more entities persons contact information type of account payment and payment plans and account and activity history. A user may be able to configure the account and add modify or delete one or more account settings. In some cases account settings may be local to one affiliate. In other cases an account setting may be global to multiple affiliates. An account setting may control or establish which ad network or ad insertion frequency to use. An account setting may also control or establish ad inventory allocation and provide ad publishing restrictions. The account management includes self service registration. With self service registration a user may via the console sign up for an affiliate account. The content owner may qualify and approve the affiliate. Account management may also include automated email notices with regards to new account activation account deactivation and account setting changes. The automated email notifications may streamline the affiliate communication process.

The account management service supports multiple business models and allows a user to configure an affiliate account for distributing video content provided by a content owner or distributor content supplied by the affiliate or both. The account management provides a user interface and configuration to establish and configure a role for an affiliate. A role identifies an affiliate s access right to a portion or all of the video content and which features and services of the media platform the affiliate may access. In one case a role may be configured for an affiliate such that the affiliate can only use a published player of the video content distributor. A role may be configured with respect to feature and services of the media platform related to uploading and managing content creating and managing players creating and managing templates creating and publishing editions of content and creating and managing users. For example and as illustrated in a first affiliate may only be given publish rights to a portion of the video content while a second affiliate may have access rights to publish as well as upload video content.

The video ingestion workflow of the syndication services includes any type and form of function logic or operations and user interface to setup manage and control ingestion of multiple video assets such as a large library of video desired to be used for online programming or in a video channel published via the media platform. Via the console the video ingestion workflow service provides automated uploads of a plurality of video media via any type and form of protocol such as HTTP or bulk file FTP uploads. The video ingestion workflow service uploads the plurality of video media to one or more storage locations such as a central storage location. From these storage locations the stored content may be available to all of the affiliated under the access control provided by the media platform . The video ingestion workflow may provide a user interface and functionality for approval control of which uploaded video assets are to be stored to which location or made available for access control to an affiliate. As such in some embodiments large library of assets may be ingested once to a central location and made available to an affiliate in a controlled and secure manner such as via the media control discussed below.

The media control of the syndication services includes any type and form of function logic or operations and user interface to setup manage and control access to video assets via one or more business policies or rules. The business rules may be assigned to associated or used with any role configured for an affiliate. A business rule may comprise any type and form of configuration language script or logic. The business rule may identify the content to be controlled in any manner such as by name type description or any metadata associated with the content. The business rule may provide access rights to content by any type of granularity such as by the action an affiliate may take with respect to the video content. For example the business rule may assign any one or more of the following access rights read view write edit upload edit publish or distribute. The business rule may identify what type of player the affiliate may use for the content such as a distributor designated player or a player controlled by the affiliate. The business rule may be configured to control what content the affiliate may use such as distributor provided content or affiliate content in conjunction with the distributor s content. The business rule may also identify and assign which services or portions thereof of the media platform the affiliate may use or access. Business rules may also be used to control and manage affiliates with respect to advertising playlists and player syndication as discussed below.

The syndication services also include functionality to control and manage the type of advertising available to one or more affiliates. Via the console an affiliate may be configured to use the ad inventory provided by the distributor and or to control of a portion of the ad inventory. The national and local advertising service provides configuration such as via roles business rules or otherwise to designate one or more ad networks to be used by an affiliate. In one case the affiliate may only use the ad networks designated by the distributor or video asset owner. In another case the affiliate may use ad networks designated by the affiliate. In still another case the affiliate may use an ad network designated by the distributor for a portion of the ads while using an ad network designated by the affiliate for another portion of the ads. In some embodiments the affiliate may select an ad network from a predetermined list of ad networks. In other embodiments the affiliate may use any one of the ad networks pre designated by the distributor for the affiliate

The syndication services may also provide services for media playlist and player syndication . The media playlist and player syndication includes any function operations logic and user interface for configuring designating publishing via roles business rules or otherwise the media media playlist and media player used by an affiliate. In some embodiments an affiliate may be configured to use a distributor provided media player for accessing or playing published content. In other embodiments an affiliate may be configured to use an affiliate provided or designated player or otherwise a player determined by the affiliate. The media playlist and player syndication may configure one or more media files for syndication via an affiliate. As such the content owner or distributor may control syndication on a media file basis. The media playlist and player syndication may also configure one or more playlists for use by affiliate in playing the media. In some embodiments the playlists may be dynamically determined via one or more business rules such as a playlist which depends on information about the affiliate or the site consuming the content.

Referring now to an embodiment of the community services of the media platform is depicted. In brief overview the community services provides a range of audience building features. The community services includes the following functionality services operations logic or components 1 email sharing 2 embedded player 3 community site integration 4 ratings and comments 5 RSS feeds 6 user content and 7 user management .

With the email sharing functionality of the community services a user can share a video with friends directly from the medial player . In some embodiments the media player comprises executable instructions to generate an email that includes a description of the video and a link or URL to launch the video. In other embodiments the media player launches an email program such as Microsoft Outlook on the computing device of the user. In some embodiments the video is embedded in the body of the email. The user may specify multiple email addresses to send the video description or link to the video. The user may also specify a comment or add text to the body of email. In some cases the user may specify a subject of the email. In other cases a title or description of the video may be used as the subject matter of the email.

In some embodiments the community services includes the functionality and capability referred to as embedded player to embed a player or link thereto into another website blog community site or any other type and form of network accessed content. For example and referring now to a user interface element may be associated with a video to allow a user to execute the feature of embedding player into other content. As depicted in in some embodiments a selectable user interface element such as a button may be selected by a user to execute the embedded player functionality . In response to the selection and as depicted in a second user interface element may be displayed to provide the script instructions code or text to embed the player into other content. The user interface providing the embedded player text may include other user interface elements to select copy and or paste the embedded player text from the user interface to another program application tool web page or content. In some embodiments the embedded player may include HTML content with one or more URLs to the video content. Access to the URLs via any sites having the embedded player and videos played by the embedded player may be tracked and usage measured by the media platform .

Referring back to the community services may also include integration to one or more other community or social networking web sites such as Digg at www.digg.com MySpace at www.myspace.com facebook at facebook.com and del.icio.us at www.del.icio.us.com. Community site integration may include any type and form of interface mechanism or communications with another system application server software service or web site. For example community site integration may be implemented via XML and web services. In another example the community site integration may upload one or more media files via HTTP or FTP to another site. In some embodiments community site integration includes one or more user interface elements to allow a user to select another site by name title URL or otherwise and post content or any portion thereof from a media player . In other embodiments community site integration includes using account information or user credentials from the media platform to access another site via a registered user or account of the site.

Referring now to an embodiment of the feature of community site integration is depicted. In brief overview a media player may display video content such as a video channel published via the media platform . The media player may include a selectable user interface element such as a button to select a video or content to be published distributed uploaded or otherwise included in content of or posted to another site. Upon selection of the community site integration feature a second user interface element may be displayed to provide the user with a selection of community sites to which to post the video. In some embodiments the list of community sites available to post the video content may be configured via roles business rules or otherwise via the media platform . In some embodiments upon selection of the community site to post the video the media player and or user interface may open connect traverse or otherwise go to the selected site. For example the media player may launch or otherwise open a web page to the selected community site and in some cases pre fill any user interface elements or other content of the community site in order to post the video to the site.

Referring back to the community services may include user interface elements logic functionality or operations to allows users to provide ratings and comments on video content ads and or user generated content via a media player or via the media platform . A user may rate any type and form of content using any type and form of rating system. The rating may be associated with the content and displayed near or in association with the rated content. The rating system may have any length order or type of scale and may be numerical or text based. In some cases the user may generate or provide a user generated rating scale. The community services may provide playlists based on ratings. The video content may be searched organized and displayed in any manner according to ratings.

A user may provide any type and form of comments such as text based submissions regarding any content. For example the media player may include a text based form to allow a user to enter and submit comments. The comments may be associated with the content and displayed near the content. The media player may organize and display comments in an organized fashion such as in a topic list or discussion grouping. The community services may provide playlists based on comments. The video content may be searched organized and displayed in any manner according to the comments. In some embodiments the community services provides functionality and user interface elements to monitor comments and approve reject recall remove or release any monitored comments.

The community services may also include one or more RSS feeds or documents . The initials RSS may be used to refer to the following formats Really Simple Syndication RSS 2.0 RDF Resource Description Framework Site Summary RSS 1.0 and RSS 0.90 or Rich Site Summary RSS 0.91 . RSS formats may be specified using XML Extensible Markup Language . RSS comprises a web feed format used to publish updated content such as video blog entries news headlines or podcasts. An RSS document which is also called a feed web feed or channel may include either a summary of content from an associated web site or the full text or any portion thereof. The RSS content may be read using software program or a service called a feed reader or an aggregator. The user subscribes to a feed by providing the feed s link to the reader. The reader checks the user s subscribed feeds regularly for new content and downloads any updates to the content.

A user may subscribe to an RSS feed based on any type and form of category or based on the availability of new content for a player. The media platform may provide multiple RSS feeds or documents for subscription. In some embodiments the media platform for example via the community services may automatically generate an RSS document for a video channel such as during the publication process. The media platform and or media player may provide user interface elements for a user to select to subscribe to an RSS feed .

The community services may also provide user interface elements functions logic or operations for a user to contribute or upload content to the media platform . For example the console may provide a user interface or utility for a user to select content from a computing device or storage area to upload or submit to a site provided via the media platform . In some embodiments the user provided content is stored with any content in ingested by the media platform. The media platform may store the user content in a central storage location with other content or video assets. The user content may be managed under the media access control workflow and publishing services or any other services provided by the media platform for owner or distributor provided content. For example roles and business rules may be configured to provide control over the user provided content.

The community services may include one or more user management functions providing administrative features for managing a community site. The user management functions include user registration and account setup user login process such as authentication and authorization user name and password retrieval user contributed content approval account suspension automatically or otherwise. The user management functions may also provide reports on one or more users and their usage and activity at the site.

Referring now to an embodiment of an advertisement server platform also referred to as an ad server platform or ad platform is depicted the ad platform was introduced as the ad platform in . The ad platform comprises an environment system and functionality for delivering broadband on demand video advertising. The ad platform provides a solution for 1 composition of ads in video playback by controlling ad insertion frequency and format via ad insertion rules 2 an inventory management and forecasting tool for on demand video stream composition environment and 3 ad campaign management and ad delivery.

In brief overview the ad platform has an ad insertion rules builder for configuring specifying or identifying one or more ad insertion rules . The ad platform also includes a stream composition service which composes a video stream to include integrate or insert the display of one or more ads. The stream composition service may use one or more ad insertion rules to control insertion points and format of ads composed into a video stream. The ad platform has a data acquisition service for collecting data related to perform and operation of delivery of video ads and use of the ad insertion rules . A reporting service may provide reports on the performance and operations of the system such as delivery of ads during video playback via the ad insertion rules from data collected by the data acquisition service . The ad platform may also have an inventory forecasting system to predict or estimate total inventory available for an ad over a time period based on past performance data such as the data collected by the data acquisition service . Additionally the ad platform may have a campaign administration service to manage one or more ad campaigns.

Any of the ad rules builder ad insertion rules stream composition service reporting service inventory forecasting service and campaign administration service may be separate components or modules or may be combined in any manner in a single module or multiple modules. Any of the above services components or modules may comprise any type and form of executable instructions such as a program application process task service or library and may be implemented using any type and form of programming language scripts or applications. For example in one embodiment the ad platform or any portion thereof is implemented as web services or using SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol and having an XML based interface. In some embodiments the ad platform or any portion thereof is deployed or otherwise provided as a hosted solution otherwise referred to as a Software As A Service SaaS or application service provider ASP delivery model.

The campaign administration service may include any type and form of campaign management software tool or service. In one embodiment the campaign administration service includes a campaign management system manufactured or provided by DoubleClick or LightingCast. In some embodiments the campaign administration service integrates interfaces or communicated with an external campaign management software tool or service. In one embodiment the campaign administration service obtains information on an ad campaign from the campaign management software tool or service. In other embodiments the campaign administration service obtains information on an ad campaign from a user such as via a user interface. In some embodiments the campaign administration service transmits ad targeting user data to the campaign management system. In one embodiment the campaign administration service transmits metadata from the media platform to the campaign management system. In response the campaign management system may transmit to the campaign administration service campaign information.

The ad platform via the stream composition service also referred to as an ad optimization engine manages and controls the insertion or delivery of ads during playback of video such as via on demand video services. On demand services such as on demand video or media can be accessed at a time determined by a consumer or user as opposed to a predetermined service such as TV programming which is available at a time determined by the broadcaster. Video on demand systems such as the media platform in one embodiment allow users to select activate view and or control viewing of video or media content over a network such as via streaming or video or media accessed via a storage such as via downloaded content. A server may provide or make available the video or media content at any time and or upon a user request. A user may also via a media player control and manage the playback of the video or media such as via media player controls of pause stop fast forward play and rewind. Each media available on demand may vary in total length or duration. Any user s access to the media may vary in 1 the duration the frequency and the continuity in which the media is viewed by the user 2 the date time and place the media is viewed or played back 3 the type and location of the device used to access the media and 4 the actions taken by the user during playback of the media.

The stream composition service optimizes or otherwise improves the effectiveness inventory timing and or quantity of delivered ads such as delivering ads during playback of on demand video. The stream composition service may be configured instructed controlled or managed via one or more ad insertion rules . For example an ad insertion rule may specify a frequency time of insertion or format for delivering an ad during playback of a video.

Referring now to details of embodiments of an ad insertion rule will be discussed. An ad insertion rule comprises any type and form of policy business rule logic function or instruction to determine when where how to whom and or in what format to deliver an ad such as during playback of media. The ad insertion rule may be configured by a user such as via a command line or graphical user interface. The ad insertion rule may be configured or specified by another system application program service process or task such as via an application programming interface API . The ad insertion rule may be designed constructed configured or specified via any type of programming language scripting language user interface selections fourth generation language custom or proprietary rule language or syntax or any combination thereof.

In brief overview an ad insertion rule may include a format one or more insertion points and one or more rule criteria . The rule determines the format for delivery of an ad and the time during playback of the video e.g. insertion points to deliver the ad in accordance with any criteria . The format of the ad insertion rule may specify a type of ad a location or position of the ad and or the length or display duration of the ad. The insertion point may specify any temporal information of when to display or deliver the ad such as a frequency of the ad or a time during playback relative to the length of the video. The rule criteria specify criteria for which to trigger the rule apply the rule for playback of the video or otherwise deliver or display an ad.

The rule criteria include any type and form of criteria logic or conditions. In some embodiments the rule criteria may be based on information operations performance or characteristics of the media. In other embodiments the rule criteria may be based on information operations performance or characteristics of the ad. In one embodiment the rule criteria may be based on information profile or activity of a user. In another embodiment the rule criteria may be based on information operations performance or characteristics of the device used to access the media. In some embodiments the rule criteria may be based on any temporal information such as time of day or part of day. By way of example and not in any way to be limiting the rule criteria may be based on 1 length or duration of the video 2 length or duration of the ad 3 type or category of the video 4 type or category of the ad 5 user profile 6 user behavior 7 user session information such as length and activity 8 popularity rating of ad 9 popularity rating of video 10 any media player actions and 11 any user behavior and activity at a web site.

As illustrated in a profile of a user may include any type and form of attribute characteristic or information regarding a user such as 1 name 2 age or age group 3 topics of interest 4 gender 5 geographic locations 6 ethnic background 7 household income 8 education level 9 number of people or children and ages in household. Also as illustrated in a behavior of a user may include any type and form of attribute characteristic or information regarding activity or behavior of the user at a web site playing videos or other accessing content such as 1 average viewing period 2 player actions 3 trends in topics 4 number of playbacks 5 day and hours of playbacks and 6 internet protocol address mapping to location of user requesting playbacks. Any of the information of the user profile and user behavior may be used to form conditions logic or criteria for the rule criteria of an ad insertion rule .

Referring back to and in further view of the format may include any information identifying specifying or otherwise providing a type of ad location or position of the ad and the length or duration of the ad. The length of the ad may be specified use any time and form of temporal information. In some embodiments the length identifies how long or for what duration an ad should be displayed. In other embodiments the length identifies a length of time to deliver an ad continuously or otherwise. In one embodiment the length identifies for how long a video or media ad should be played. In yet another embodiment the length may be relative to a length of the video duration of the video playback or any other criteria such as any of the rule criteria . For example the length for the ad may be a percentage of the length of the video or duration of the playback. In another embodiment the length may be increased or decreased based on user profile or user behavior . For example the length of the ad may be decreased base on a user being registered or a user with a history of short playback duration.

The position of the format of the ad may include any information specifying or otherwise identifying 1 where in a playlist the ad will be displayed or run 2 at what point in relation to the playback of the video clip and or 3 in what location the ad will be displayed or run such as a location relative to the screen of the device or the video. By way of example and in no way limiting in some embodiments the ad position includes any of the following position identifiers or indicators 

The ad type may include any type and form of organization arrangement and or layout of color graphics imagery transitions elements style creativity overlays visual effect user interaction or combination thereof. By way of example and in no way limiting an ad type may include any of the following 

The ad type may include other types of online advertising forms. In one embodiment the ad type includes a banner ad which is an advertising graphic image or animation displayed on a website. In some cases the ad type may include a tristitial ad in which the ad is segments in a single as space as three discrete campaign images displayed in succession during the same single impression. In another embodiment the ad type may be a floating ad in which the ad moves across the user s screen or floats above the content. In some embodiments the ad type may be an expanding ad in which the ad changes size and or which may alter the contents of the webpage. In other embodiments the ad type may include a wallpaper ad in which the ad changes the background or portion thereof of the page being viewed. The ad type may include a pop up ad in which a new window opens in front of the current window displaying an advertisement or entire webpage. The ad type may also be a pop under ad. The pop under is similar to the pop up ad except that the window is loaded or sent behind the current window so that the user does not see the ad until they close one or more active windows. The ad type may include a map ad in which text or graphics linked from and appearing in or over a location on an electronic map such as on Google Maps. The ad type may be a graphical user interface an application or script to provide interactive functionality with a user such as receive user selection or have a user fill in and submit a form or survey.

Referring back to and in further view of the ad insertion rule identifies or specifies one or more insertion points for delivery display or running of an ad. As mentioned above the insertion point may specify any temporal information of when to display or deliver the ad such as a frequency of the ad or a time during playback relative to the length of the video. In some embodiments the insertion point may be specified via a descriptor identifying a position in playback of video media such as the start mid point end of a video clip.

In another embodiment the insertion point may be specified via a cue point. A cue point may be any type and form of identifier signal or instruction associated with or in a video media to indicate a point of interest or to direct or instruct to perform an activity or otherwise take an action. In some cases a cue point may be specified via metadata associated with the video media. The cue point may be provided with or in the video media or manually inserted via a user interface or video editing tool.

In other embodiments the insertion point may be specified as a time value or point in duration of playback of the video media such as in seconds and or milliseconds of playback. For example the insertion point may be specified as at or after 1 second of playback. In some cases the point in duration of playback may be specified relative from the start mid point or end of the playback or another reference point such as 10 seconds after the start of playback 10 seconds before the end of playback or 10 seconds before or after a cue point. In one embodiment the insertion point is specified as a percentage such as a percentage of duration of playback or percentage of length of the video media. In some embodiments the ad type also identifies the insertion point for the ad. For example if the ad type is a roadblock or gateway ad type the ad may be displayed at or before the start of a video clip.

In another embodiment the insertion point may be specified relative to a user action. For example the insertion point may be specified relative to a user action of the media player such as upon start pause and rewind action of the media player . In another example the insertion point may be specified relative to a user action for the web page or web site such as upon selection of a predetermined URL or hyperlink.

In another embodiment the insertion point may be specified as a frequency based on any time period such at every 10 seconds. The insertion point may be specified as a progressive or increasing or decreasing frequency or series of frequencies. For example every 10 seconds for the first minute and every 20 seconds for the second minute and every 30 seconds for the third minute and so on. In other embodiments a frequency for the insertion point may be specified relative to a length of the video media. For example if the video media is greater than 90 seconds in length then insert an ad every 30 seconds. In another example if the video media is less than 90 seconds in the length then insert an ad every 15 seconds.

In some embodiments based on the insertion points of an ad insertion rule the stream composition service controls manages changes or otherwise manipulates the streaming or playback of the video to provide the delivery running displaying or playback of an ad. The stream composition service may deliver the ad in the video stream or playback on top of or as an overlay to the video stream or playback or near adjacent or otherwise in associated or conjunction with the video stream or playback. In one embodiment the stream composition service composes the stream or playback of the video to include displaying or playback of the ad. For example the stream composition service may change the content of the stream or playback to insert or include content into the stream or playback for an ad.

In another embodiment the stream composition service delivers runs or displays the ad as an overlay or as a visual effect in conjunction with the playback of the video. The playback of the video may be paused or may continue to play. In some embodiments the stream composition service stops or pauses the playback of the video to display or deliver the ad and then resumes or otherwise continues the playback. In yet other embodiments the stream composition service displays or runs the ad as part of the media player such as a skin or another window. In other embodiments the stream composition service displays or runs the ad in conjunction or association with the video such as near adjacent to or on the same web page as the video media.

In one embodiment the stream composition service optimizes or otherwise improves the ad delivery frequency by providing more options for specifying ad placement. By way of example and in no way to be limiting the ad platform and or stream composition service may provide the following ad placements methods 

As referred to in the stream composition service may compose ads via ad insertion rules categorized as follows 1 static 2 dynamic and 3 progressively dynamic. A static ad insertion rule may be a predefined ruled provided with or in the media platform or the stream composition service . For example a static rule may be specified to deliver a particular ad targeted for a particular stream or targeted for a particular day part. In another example a static rule may have the frequency of the insertion point preset. In a further embodiment the spot or cue point where an ad is played back is predefined.

In some embodiments a dynamic ad insertion rule may be a rule assigned to or for a stream composition based on any rule criteria . A dynamic rule may be assigned for stream composition by taking in account user profile user behavior history ad popularity ratings and clip popularity ratings. For example if a user historically views clips of 180 seconds duration on average then insert 45 second of ads or if a user s view period is less than 60 seconds then ticker lay ad on clips.

In other embodiments an ad insertion rule may be referred to as progressively dynamic. A progressively dynamic rule may consider information user actions and criteria based on the current playback session and user activity. In one embodiment a progressively dynamic rule is based on criteria at the time of request of playback as well as criteria collected detected or identified during playback. For example a static or dynamic rule may be initially used for a particular user. As the user progresses through the session more user behavioral data is collected and the stream composition may be modified on the fly based on the collected data. In another example a user may be rewarded for a longer session by changing the frequency e.g. decreasing the spot load etc.

In view of the different ad insertion rules the ad placement methodologies may be encompassed in a 1 static composition 2 dynamic composition or 3 dynamically progressive composition. In some cases the static composition of ad placement may be based on the manual ad placement or premium membership ad placement methods. For example a publisher may specify via ad insertion rules predefined or otherwise and or cue points 

In another case the dynamic composition may be based on the dynamic ad placement clip rating or ad rating based placement or premium membership ad placement methods. This may allow a publisher to set relatively fluid rules based on the duration of a clip such

In some cases progressively dynamic composition may be based on user session duration historic average user session data at the site historic average user session for streaming video at the site historic average viewing time of a user for a clip or current user session for streaming the data at the site. An example rule may be 

Referring to a diagram depicting an example use of ad insertion rules to provide a variety of insertion points and ad formats during playback of media such as video is depicted. In brief overview a media may be played or streamed from a starting point or start time for any duration up to and including an end point or end time which may be the length of a video clip. For example on demand video may be started by request of a user and the video s playback controlled by the user via a media player . Depending on the criteria of the rules one or more ad insertion rules may be applied during the playback of the media. A first ad insertion rule A may provide for ad formats A N at insertion points A N respectively. A second ad insertion rule B may provide for ad formats A N at insertion points A N while a third ad insertion rule C provides for ad formats A N at insertion points A N . Each or any of the ad formats for any of these rules A N may provide different ad formats at any of the insertion points . Any of the insertion points of any of these rules A N may be specified using the same or different notation for example rule A may have an insertion point based on frequency while rules B and C have insertion points based on frequency and or duration and or percentage of the video clip.

The ad insertion rules are generally discussed herein as delivering ads during playback of a video media. This may include pre playing and post playing of the video media or at any time associated with the playing of the video media. During playback may also include any temporary stopping pausing or interruption to the playing of the media intentional or otherwise. Furthermore during playback may include delivering ads during a single video clip intra video or it may include delivering ads between a series of one or more video clips inter video such as a playlist. Moreover the ad insertions rules may be applied to deliver ads during video clips and in between video clips. In some cases the ad insertion rules may be applied between playlists. In other cases the ad insertion rules may be applied to a plurality of video media being played back concurrently simultaneously or otherwise at the same time.

The following table of use cases describe some different example scenarios for using and applying ad insertion rules 

Referring now to an example embodiment of an ad insertion rules builder also referred to as an ad builder is depicted. The ad insertion rules builder may comprise any type and form of interface for creating modifying configuring selecting or specifying one or more ad insertion rules . In one embodiment the ad builder includes any type and form of a user interface graphical or command line for a user to create modify configure select or specify an ad insertion rule. In another embodiment the ad builder includes any type and form of application programming interface API for a program application script process service or set of executable instructions to create modify configure select or specify an ad insertion rule. In some embodiment the user interface for the ad builder functionality is provided via the console .

In brief overview the example embodiment of the ad builder in provides an interface for manually identifying ad insertion points for one or more video clips. The interface may include a user interface element to select save and or upload an ad format to display at an insertion point. The interface may also include user interface elements that display the times for the insertion points for example the time the ad starts to display and the time the ad completes displaying. The ad rules builder may have one or more user interface elements such as an ad insertion tabs for the user to create configure or specify the effects branding and data to use at an insertion point.

The ad format identified via the ad format user interface element may include any supported rich media effects such as a Flash formatted .swf file. A user may be able to upload an ad effect to display for a selected insertion point. One of the ad formats may be a video clip. The builder may provide an option to use a clip requested from another system or third party. The builder via the user interface element may otherwise allow the user to upload a video clip from a server.

The Ad Insertion user interface element such as a tab may include any of the finalized ad related information. In one user interface configuration a user may click on the tab and three sub tabs and may appear. The ad information for a composition may be configures as described below.

The Effects tab may include time based information about the effects that may be overlaid on a video frame floaters live data that may be displayed as a ticker or a video clip. For the effects and video clips a user may specify if they want the system to decide what effects or clips to display or playback For the effects a user may specify a single point in time and or an out point until when the effect should be displayed. In addition a user may select formats to overlay over a video frame player and or the page itself. The user may specify the position mapping for the effect within the frame. The user may specify the positions relative to the player. The webpage may be mapped via XML for the player. If a user selects an ad video clip and identifies an in point the user may also select how long the video clip should be plated. The user may also select an effect called re skin. The user may upload a .swf file to re skin the player or select from a list that already exist in the system such as a list of player skins available for an affiliate.

The Branding tab may used to re brand a video with logo or add other branding information. For example if an affiliate wants to re brand a video with the affiliate s logo or add some other branding information then the user may re brand the effects for a particular player and or playlist. The branding information may be associated with the complete playlist e.g. all clips or with clips selected by the user. Configuration data for these branding effects may be stored in associated with the affiliate. For example any data that is stored at the affiliate level shows up under the branding tab . A user may elect to deleted this branding data for this playlist or add some additional branding.

In one embodiment the Live Data tab provides access to configuration related to displaying of an RSS feeds such as a ticker over the video at the bottom of the frame. For example if a user selects ticker lay for effects via the effect tab then live data is used for displaying this type of ad. In one embodiment the tab provides a user interface to specify a URL for an ad such as an RSS feed. The user may specify the url or otherwise configure the Live Data tab at an affiliate level. The user may also configure the url or otherwise the configuration of Live Data tab at a player or playlist level. Any data that is stored at the affiliate level may be available under this tab . A user may elect to delete the stored URL for this playlist and or add a different URL.

Any of the log tabs depicted in the ad builder of may provide access to log data files or database associated with a video clip. The logs may comprise time based data related to cue or insertion points. The logs may include information about regions of interest where an ad could be inserted. For example the logs may comprise time based logs that were uploaded with a video clip. In some cases logging may be enabled after a video clip is uploaded.

In view of the embodiment of the ad rules builder depicted in the following are some example uses cases for building and using rules.

Referring now to example pictorials of a console providing functionality and a user interface for another embodiment of the ad builder are depicted. In brief overview illustrates an embodiment of providing a user interface for configuring advertising options. illustrates an embodiment of a user interface for specifying one or more rule criteria. illustrates an embodiment of a user interface for managing and branding a media player. illustrates an embodiment of a user interface for specifying and previewing player templates. illustrates an embodiment of a user interface for scheduling the use of a player template. illustrates another embodiment of the scheduling user interface.

Referring now to the console may provide a user interface for configuring or specifying one or more advertising options such as branding a template for a media player or creating one or more ad insertion rules . For example the user interface may have one or more elements for a user to select a template type and the template for dynamic template branding. The user interface may also have one or more elements for a user to specify ad insertion rules governing the frequency and types of ads inserted into the playlist. The user interface may provide also elements for a user to select or specify rule criteria for the insertion rule . Furthermore the user interface may provide elements to preview the player template or the player .

Referring now to the console may provide a user interface for configuring or specifying one or more rule criteria for an ad insertion rule. The user interface may include a choose list of rules which may be predefined or system rules or may be rules created by the user. The user interface may provide functionality for adding rules or creating new rules. Furthermore the user interface may provide any type and form of user interface elements to specify rule criteria such as the example of criterion and depicted in .

Referring now to the console may provide a user interface for managing configuring or creating one or more templates for a player . The user interface may provide a toolbox such as a color palette to design specify and configure the color for portions of the media player template. For example a user may specify a custom color for the background of any portion of the media player template such as any of the following player content container video box search category link divider clip listing clip listing fuzz loading movie or clip over. The toolbox provided by the user interface may also allow a user to select and upload images to place on any portion of the media player template. Furthermore the user interface may provide user interface elements for a user to select or specify any player links or URLs to place on the player template. Referring to the console may provide a user interface for previewing a template from the dynamic template branding section of the user interface .

Referring now to the console may provide a user interface for scheduling the beginning and ending date and or time for use of a player having a configured player template such as the template depicted in . The user interface may include a calendar based selection tool for the user to select a begin date and an end date. Optionally the user may enter a time on the begin date as well as the end data. In this manner a user may configure when a player template may be in use or go live for a target time period or ad campaign period. In another embodiment the user may specify a start date and or time and a number of days or amount of time to run the campaign with or otherwise use a branded media player template.

Referring now to embodiments of methods of using and applying ad insertion rules to the delivery of ads during playback of video media are depicted. is directed to an embodiment of a method for delivering an ad during playback of video media based on an insertion point specified by an ad insertion rule. is directed to an embodiment of a method for delivering an ad during playback of video media based on one or more actions by the user via the media player. is directed to an embodiment of a method for delivering an ad during playback of video media based on one or more actions by the user at a web site.

In brief overview and now referring to at step of method a user specifies or the media platform provides an ad insertion rule . At step the media platform receives a request for playback of a video media such as an on demand video. At step the media platform such as via the stream composition service identifies one or more ad insertion rules associated with or otherwise to be used for the requested video media. At step the media platform and or stream composition service determines a point during the playback of the video media corresponding to an insertion point specified by the identified ad insertion rule . At step in response to the determination the media platform and or stream composition service displays an ad at the determined insertion point in accordance with the ad insertion rule such as using the ad type specified by the rule .

In further detail at step one or more ad insertion rules may be specified or identified. In one embodiment the media platform provides one or more predefined or system rules . In another embodiment the stream composition service has one or more built in or predefined rules . In other embodiments a user via an ad builder configures or specifies one or more ad insertion rules . In some embodiments a user modifies a predefined rule provided by the media platform or stream composition service . In another embodiment a user selects a predefined rule and creates a user specified rule. The ad insertion rule may include a static rule a dynamic rule or a progressively dynamic rule.

The ad insertion rule may specify any type and form of ad format and or rule criteria . The ad insertion rule may specify for the ad format a length for displaying the ad a location of the ad and or a type of ad. In one embodiment the ad insertion rule specifies a frequency for a plurality of insertion points. In another embodiment the ad insertion rule specifies a frequency for displaying an ad during playback of the video media based on a length of the video media. In some embodiments the ad insertion rule specifies a format displaying an ad during playback of the video media based on a length of the video media.

At step the media platform receives a request to playback a video media. In one embodiment a user requests playback of the video media. For example the user may select the video from a link or URL of a web site. In another embodiment a web page program service or application may request playback of the video media. For example a web page may include scripts instructions or other content requesting playback of the video media. In another example a media player may request playback of the video media. In some embodiments upon displaying or serving a web page a video media may be configured to automatically start playing.

In one embodiment the media platform and or stream composition service identifies a popularity rating of the requested video. The popularity rating may be based on a number of views or may be based on user generated provided ratings. For example the most popular rated video may be based on the video having the highest number of views or having the highest average rating. In some embodiments the media platform and or stream composition service identifies the user requesting playback of the video media. The stream composition service may obtain a profile and or a behavior history of the identified user. For example via the profile of the identified user the stream composition service may obtain one or more of the following information name age group topics of interest gender geographic location ethnic background household income education level and children in household. In another example the stream composition service may obtain via the behavior history of the identified user one or more of the following information average viewing period trend in popular topics number of streams days and hours of streaming and Internet protocol address mapping to location. The stream composition service may also obtain via the behavior history of the identified user one or more of the following user actions via a media player mute pause restart full screen mid point viewing complete viewing fast forward and rewind. The stream composition service may also obtain information on user actions such as mouse overs hovers ad user initiated play via a click through.

At step the media platform and or stream composition service identifies one or more ad insertion rules to apply during playback of the requested video media. In some embodiments the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with or assigned to the requested video media. In one embodiment the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with or assigned to a video media based on metadata. In other embodiments the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with or assigned to a playlist having the requested video media. In one embodiment the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with the user requesting the video media. In another embodiment the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with or assigned to an affiliate. In some embodiments the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with or assigned to a geographic location such as to the IP address originating the request to playback the video media. In yet another embodiment the stream composition service identifies an ad insertion rule as associated with or assigned to a video media based on any rule criteria . In one embodiment the media platform and or stream composition service identifies a popularity rating of the ad to be delivered via the identified ad insertion rule.

At step the stream composition service determines a point during the playback of the video media corresponding to an insertion point of the identified ad insertion rules. The stream composition service may monitor the duration of the video playback and any user actions activity or lack thereof during the playback. In some embodiments the stream composition service may query or monitor any data collected or stored via the data acquisition service . In other embodiments the stream composition service interfaces or is in communication with the media player . From the media player the stream composition service may receive information on the status and activity of playback such as the duration of playback and any user actions taken via the media player . In yet another embodiment the media platform or a server thereof provides information on the status and activity of the playback of the video media. In some embodiments the stream composition service checks for cue points associated with the playback of the video media such as via a log file or via metadata associated with the video media. In another embodiment the stream composition service monitors a log file providing information on status of the playback of the video media.

As the playback of the video media progresses and as events occur the stream composition service determines if any of the insertion points of any identified ad insertion rule corresponds to the status of playback and or any associated events. In one embodiment the stream composition service determines a duration of playback corresponds to the temporal information specified by the insertion point of the ad insertion rule such as frequency. For example the stream composition service may determine that a point during playback of the video media corresponds to a period of time indicated by the frequency. In another embodiment the stream composition service determines an event related to playback such as a user action corresponds to the insertion point of the ad insertion rule. In some embodiments the stream composition service determines that a point in playback of the video media corresponds to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule based on the profile or the behavior history of the identified user such as the user identified at step . In one embodiment the stream composition service determines that a point during playback of the video media corresponds to the insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule based on a popularity rating for the requested video and or the ad to be delivered.

In yet another embodiment the stream composition service uses one or more timers for insertion points. For example upon starting or activating playback of the video media the stream composition service may set a timer corresponding to the time of an insertion point. If the insertion point specifies a frequency of every 10 seconds then the stream composition service may use a timer to trigger an event every 10 seconds. The timer may be started at the start of playback. In some embodiment the stream composition service evaluates rule criteria to determine a corresponding insertion point has been reached during playback of the video media.

At step the stream composition service displays an ad at the determined insertion point in accordance with the identified ad insertion rule. Upon determining the status duration or activity of playback corresponds to an insertion point the stream composition service displays delivers or otherwise runs an ad. The ad insertion rule may specify a format for the ad such as the type of ad location and or duration. In response to the ad insertion rule the stream composition service may display the type of ad at a location and for a duration as specified by the rule. For example the ad insertion rule may specify and the stream composition service may display one or more of the following ad types gateway interstitial bumper context positioning a spot a bug telescoping interactive video video curtains video roadblocks ticker lay and shadow ad.

In some embodiments the stream composition service displays the ad at a location for a length of time or having a predetermined ad type based on the profile and or the behavior history of the identified user. In one embodiment the stream composition service displays the ad for the length specified by the ad insertion rule based on the length of the requested video media. In another embodiment the stream composition service displays the ad at the location specified by the ad insertion rule based on the length of the requested video media. In some embodiments the stream composition service may evaluate any rule criteria to determine the ad format for delivering the ad.

Now referring to an embodiment of steps of method for delivering an ad based on detected user actions via the media player is depicted. At step of method a user specifies or the media platform provides an ad insertion rule . At step the media platform receives a request for playback of a video media such as an on demand video. At step the media platform such as via the stream composition service identifies one or more ad insertion rules associated with or otherwise to be used for the requested video media. At step the media platform the stream composition service and or the media player detects one or more user actions during the user s playback session such as the user pausing the playback or the length of time of the session. At step the media platform and or the stream composition service determines a point during the playback of the video media corresponding to an insertion point specified by the identified ad insertion rule and based on the detected user actions. At step in response to the determination the media platform and or stream composition service displays an ad at the determined insertion point in accordance with the ad insertion rule such as using the ad type specified by the rule .

As discussed above in connection with an embodiment of method of at step one or more ad insertion rules may be specified or identified at step a request to playback a video media is received and at step the media platform and or stream composition service identifies one or more ad insertion rules to apply during playback of the requested video media. In the embodiment of method the method at steps and use actions of the user during the playback session to trigger or apply the ad insertion rule.

A playback session may include any type and form of session with an application player service server or web site associated with the playback of the video media. In one embodiment a playback session includes a session with a media player such as from the time a media player is executed or playback is initiated to a time the media player is terminated or playback is completed or terminated. In another embodiment the playback session includes a session with a web site such as a user s visit to one or more web pages. For example a user may login to a web site to use services provided by the web site. In some embodiments the playback session includes a session with the media platform. For example a user may access a web site via the media platform or the user may register and login to the media platform.

In further detail at step the media platform stream composition service and or media player detects one or more user actions via the media player during a playback session. In some embodiments the media platform stream composition service and or media player detects the user has taken one or more of the following actions via the media player 1 mute 2 pause 3 restart 4 full screen 5 fast forward and 6 rewind. In one embodiment the media platform stream composition service and or media player detects a length of time of the playback session. In some embodiments the media platform stream composition service and or media player determines the detected length of time is greater than or less than a predetermined length of time such as a predetermined length of time set as a rule criteria .

At step the media platform and or stream composition service determines a point during playback of the video media corresponds to an insertion point of the identified as insertion rule based on a detected user action. For example the stream composition service may determine a detected user action corresponds to rule criteria of the ad insertion rule. The rule criteria may be associated with or identify a frequency or temporal information to use for insertion based on a user action. In another example the stream composition service determines the detected user action equates to an insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule.

In some embodiments the stream composition service changes an ad insertion rule or otherwise applies a dynamic ad insertion rule based on detected actions of the user. For example in one embodiment the stream composition service via an ad insertion rule may change the frequency of ad insertion or the format of the ad based on the detected one or more actions of the user. In another example the stream composition service via an ad insertion rule may change location of the ad or a length of time for displaying the ad based on the detected one or more actions of the user. In other embodiments the stream composition service applies a progressively dynamic ad insertion rule based on the detected actions of the user.

At step as previously discussed above in connection with method of the stream composition service displays an ad at the determined insertion point in accordance with the identified ad insertion rule. Upon determining the status duration or activity of playback corresponds to an insertion point the stream composition service displays delivers or otherwise runs an ad. The ad insertion rule may specify a format for the ad such as the type of ad location and or duration. In response to the ad insertion rule the stream composition service may display the type of ad at a location and for a duration as specified by the rule. The detected user action may identify or change the ad format location and or duration to display or deliver the ad.

Now referring to a method for an embodiment of steps of method for delivering an ad based on detected user actions at a web site is depicted. At step of method a user specifies or the media platform provides an ad insertion rule . At step the media platform receives a request for playback of a video media such as an on demand video provided via a web site. At step the media platform such as via the stream composition service identifies one or more ad insertion rules associated with or otherwise to be used for the requested video media. At step the media platform the stream composition service and or the media player detects one or more user actions at the web site such as the user selecting a URL or length of visit as the web site. At step the media platform and or the stream composition service determines a point during the playback of the video media corresponding to an insertion point specified by the identified ad insertion rule and based on the detected user actions at the web site. At step in response to the determination the media platform and or stream composition service displays an ad at the determined insertion point in accordance with the ad insertion rule such as using the ad type specified by the rule .

As discussed above in connection with an embodiment of method of at step one or more ad insertion rules may be specified or identified at step a request to playback a video media is received and at step the media platform and or stream composition service identifies one or more ad insertion rules to apply during playback of the requested video media. In the embodiment of method the method at steps and use actions of the user at a web site to trigger or apply the ad insertion rule.

In further detail at step the media platform and or stream composition service detects one or more actions of the user at a web site. In some embodiments the media platform and or stream composition service detects a length of the user s visit at the web site. The stream composition service may detect the length of the user s visit is greater than or less than a predetermined length of time such as a length of time set by rule criteria . In other embodiments the media platform and or stream composition service a type of content the user viewed at the web site. In another embodiment the media platform and or stream composition service detects one or more user interface element selected by the user at the web site such as a hyperlink or URL.

At step the media platform and or stream composition service determines a point during playback of the video media corresponds to an insertion point of the identified as insertion rule based on user activity or actions at the web site. For example the stream composition service may determine a user behavior detected at the web site corresponds to rule criteria of the ad insertion rule. The rule criteria may be associated with or identify a frequency or temporal information to use for insertion based on web site behavior In another example the stream composition service determines the detected user behavior equates to an insertion point specified by the ad insertion rule.

At step the stream composition service displays an ad at the determined insertion point in accordance with the identified ad insertion rule. Upon determining the status duration or activity of the user at the web site corresponds to an insertion point the stream composition service displays delivers or otherwise runs an ad. The user activity and actions at the web site may cause the ad format type location and or to change via application of one or more dynamic or progressively dynamic ad insertion rules.

Referring now to example screen shots of application of ad insertion rules during playback of video media via the systems and methods described herein are depicted. In brief overview illustrates an example embodiment of an ad inserted during playback of a video media. illustrates an example embodiment of an ad video clip displayed after selecting the first ad inserted during playback of a video media as depicted in . illustrates an example embodiment of a call for action at an end of the video ad depicted in . illustrates an example embodiment of submission feedback and availability of new video media after completing the call for action depicted in . illustrates an example embodiment of making new video clips available as a result of a user taking a call for action.

Referring now to a web site delivered via the media platform to present video with an embedded player is depicted. In this example a published video channel regarding travel is presented to the user. The video channel may include a playlist of three video clips entitled Vacation in Aruba Stress Free Vacation and Mountain Getaway . A user may select one of the video clips from the playlist. In some cases the embedded player automatically plays a first video clip in the playlist such as the Vacation in Aruba video clip. During the playback of this video clip the media platform via the stream composition service may apply an ad insertion rule to deliver a bug type ad related to cars such as the Land Rover bug style ad displayed at the bottom of the video. The ad insertion rule may specify the location e.g. bottom of video an ad type e.g. bug style ad and a duration for displaying the ad. In some embodiments the media platform and or stream composition service may stop the playback of the video to display the ad. In other embodiments the playback of the video may continue while the bug ad is displayed.

Referring to . the result of the user selecting the delivered bug ad of is depicted. For example a user may have selected the bug ad as shown in at the bottom of the video. In response the media platform and or stream composition service may stop the playback of the video. The stream composition service may deliver a second ad by applying an ad insertion rule based on the user s action of selecting the bug style ad. As shown in the delivered ad may be a video ad related to the advertised car. The user may watch this video ad for any duration. A user interface element is presented to the user to close the video ad and resume playback of the original video e.g. the Vacation in Aruba video of .

Referring to the media platform and or stream composition service may deliver via an ad insertion rule or otherwise a call to action at the end of playing the video ad delivered as depicted in . For example an ad insertion rule may insert a graphical user interface application or program at the end of the playback of the video ad. In the illustrated example the call to action may provide user interface elements such as form field and hyperlinks to provide user options to submit information or traverse to another video or web page. In the example a user may select a button to go to another video clip entitled Designing a Legend Video . The user may also enter a zip code and select a button to find a car dealer near the user s location. Also the user may enter an email address to get sent a brochure electronically. The user may close the call to action user interface and take no requested or prompted action.

Referring to screen shots of a user interface presented to the user after submitting information via the call to action screen of is depicted. The user may have submitted email information to receive a brochure. In response to this submission the media platform web site or stream composition service presents a user interface as shown in acknowledging the received submission. In one embodiment the acknowledgment screen of is part of the call to action user interface and functionality. The user interface may present a link or URL to a web site the user may want to visit related to the advertisement. By submitting the email to the advertiser additional video clips may be unlocked or presented to the user such as those video clips illustrated in .

As introduced in and described in further detail below via the ad platform includes a data acquisition service and reporting service . The data acquisition service collects data on the usage of ad insertion rules and the delivery of ads therefrom. The reporting service generates a number of usage reports from the collected data to provide information on the usage of the ad insertion rules and delivery of ads via these rules.

As described herein the media platform provides and integrates to a comprehensive set of services. The media platform provides services to ingest publish and deliver online and on demand broadband content and video media and to dynamically deliver ads during playback of on demand video based on ad insertion rules. The media platform is also integrated with other services and networks including distributors affiliates content distribution networks and ad networks and interfaces to other systems such as digital asset management systems and content management systems. As such the media platform has access to a rich source of information and data from the services the media platform provides as well as those services and systems to which the media platform communicates or interfaces. From this information and data the media platform collects data and generates reports to measure and identify the operation performance and effectiveness of the media platform and ad insertion rules.

Referring now to an embodiment of the ad platform for collecting data via the data acquisition service and generating usage reports via the reporting service is depicted. In brief overview the ad platform delivers via the stream composition service video media to one or more users. As previously discussed above the stream composition service delivers ads at configurable insertions points during the playback of the video media. The insertion points may be specified by one or more ad insertion rules . A data acquisition service collects data and events associated with the delivery of video and ads such as information on the delivery of ads via application of ad insertion rules . The data acquisition stores data and information in a data storage . A reporting service provides a reporting tool to generate usage reports from the collected data stored in the data storage .

In further detail the data acquisition service may include any type and form of interface mechanisms and executable instructions to received intercept or otherwise obtain data events messages and or communications related to the operation and or performance of any portion of the media platform and or system or service in communication with or integrated to the media platform . In one embodiment the data acquisition service acts as a subscription agent. The data acquisition service may subscribe to any events information or messages provided by any service or any portion of the media platform . For example the data acquisition service may subscribe to events generated when an ad is played back and to related users actions via a media player e.g. fast forwarded . In other embodiments the data acquisition service provides an application programming interface API . Any of the services of the media platform or any external systems and services may communicate via the API to provide data and information to the data acquisition service . In some embodiments the data acquisition service finds searches and obtains data via any log files. For example in one embodiment the data acquisition service searches log files generated by the media player or logs generated or provided by a content distribution network.

The data acquisition service may parse any received or obtained information and data into appropriate datum and store the information to the data storage . The data storage may comprise any type and form of database such as an SQL database relational database or an object based or object oriented database. The data storage may comprise any version of the SQL Server database manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and any version of the Oracle database from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. In some embodiments the data acquisition service may communicate with the data storage using a database access technology such as for example the Open Database Connectivity standard ODBC or Java Database Connectivity JDBC . The data storage may comprise a file file system Excel spreadsheet or any other form of storage that may store and organize information in a logical manner. In one embodiment the data storage comprise data structures or objects of a program library or other form of executable instruction or may comprise data stored in some form of memory.

In some embodiments the data acquisition service may filter translate transform manipulate or otherwise manage the data and information stored to the data storage . In one embodiment the data acquisition service performs any statistical or mathematical operation or technique on the data to be stored or stored in storage . For example the data acquisition service may calculate average values over a series of values such as for a time period. In other embodiments the data acquisition service stores the data and information in a relationship or association or otherwise establishes relationships in the data store between data. In one embodiment the data acquisition service organizes and arranges the data in the data storage or the data in the data storage is organized and arranged in a manner to improve assist or otherwise support the generation of reports such as any of the usage reports of discussed below. For example the data may be stored using any normalization rules and or to flatten the hierarchy data for users to generate reports.

The data acquisition service may interface to or communicate with the stream composition service to obtain any data or information regarding the operation performance and effectiveness of the stream composition service and or delivery of ads via ad insertion rules . The data acquisition service may acquire and store any of the following information 1 number of ads delivered 2 number of ads delivered per rule 3 types of ads delivered or ad formats used 4 number of clickable ads versus number of ads clicked 5 user interactions with ad or video via the player. The data acquisition service collects and stores data providing temporal information on the insertion points at which ads were displayed during playback of video media. The data acquisition service collects and stores data providing temporal information on duration and occurrence of user events and actions for playback of video media and delivered video ads.

The data acquisition service may store any user information such as user profile or behavior history associated with delivery of video and ads. The data acquisition service may store any rule criteria used or applied during the delivery of an ad via an ad insertion rule. In one embodiment the data acquisition service associates user information with rule criteria and or with the insertion points at which ads were displayed during playback of video media.

The reporting service may comprise any type and form of analytics data warehousing business intelligence and or reporting tool application program or service to generate one or more reports from data stored in the data storage . In one embodiment the reporting tool comprises a software tool that allows a user to build a report based on data in a database . These reports may be generated and delivered in an ad hoc manner. In some embodiments reports are scheduled to be generated and run automatically at predetermined times or based on policies or business rules. In one embodiment the reporting service distributes reports for example via email to one or more users such as a defined group of users or subscribers to the report. In one embodiment the reporting service includes uses or interfaces with any of the functionality or products manufactured by WebTrends Inc. of Portland Oreg. In another embodiment the reporting service includes uses or interfaces with any of the Crystal Report products manufactured by Business Objects of San Jose Calif. In some embodiments the reporting service reports data via Microsoft Excel or Microsoft Access manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. In other embodiments the reporting service may include or use any type and form of Online Analytical Processing or OLAP tool.

The reporting service may query communicate integrate or interface with the data storage and the data therein using any type and form of communications or interface. In one embodiment the report services uses ODBC to connect to and obtain data from the data storage . In another embodiment the report services uses JDBC to connection and obtain data from the data storage. In some embodiments the reporting services uses APIs of the data acquisition service to access data in the data storage . For example the data acquisition service may provide an object oriented API to access the data storage .

The reporting service may provide any type and form of user interface command line or graphical for a user to select and generate reports. In one embodiment the console provides the user interface for the reporting service . The user interface may include user interface elements such as text boxes or combo boxes for a user to enter or select one or more parameters for generating the report such as the name of an ad insertion rule or a time period for which to generate the report. The reporting service may provide a user interface for a user to create reports by traversing the organization and hierarchy of data in the data storage and selecting associating and arranging the data in a report in a desired format.

The reporting service may generate from data in the data storage one or more usage reports providing information on the use of ad insertion rules. For example the reporting service may generates these reports in response to a user request or automatically as part of a system work flow. Referring now to diagrams of example usage reports are depicted. In brief overview report A may provide information on the total ad formats delivered. Report B may provide a quantity of different ad formats delivered. Report C may provide the number of ads delivered per ad insertion Rule. Report D may provide information on the number of clickable ads versus the number of ads clicked.

In further detail report may provide information on the quantity of each type of ad format delivered. The report A may provide quantity information for one ad type all ad types available or delivered or selected ad types. A user may be able to select one or more ad types and or a time period as input parameters to run the report. The report A may identify the ad insertion rule s used to deliver the ad type. The report A may provide any temporal information to identify the insertion points of when the ad types were delivered. The report A may identify the video media for which the ad was delivered during playback. The report A may also identify any user related information such as information from the user profile or user behavior history or any user actions taken via the media player or web site.

The report B may provide quantitative information on the total ad formats delivered. For example the report A may identify the total number of ad types delivered via the media platform via a published video channel via an affiliate via a web site or to one or more users. The report B may provide the totals of ads delivered for all ad types and provide a breakdown of the total according to each ad type such as for Gateway ads bumper ads in stream overlays in stream video ads etc. The report B may be provided for a user selected or a predetermined time period. The report A may also identify any temporal information regarding the date and time of delivery of the ad such as which day or time in the day received the highest total of ads.

The report C provides information on the delivery of ads on an ad insertion rule basis. This report C may identify for one rule all rules or a selected set of one or more rules the number and type of ads delivered over any time period. The report C may display any temporal information to identify the insertion points triggered by the ad insertion rule. The report C may also identify values of any rule criteria at the time of the insertion point. The report C may identify the rule criteria that triggered or issued the ad insertion rule or delivery of the ad. The report C may provide any information from the user profile user behavior history or any user actions triggering the rule or associated with the playback of the video media or the delivered ad. The report C may provide information on the video media for which the ad insertion rule was applied.

The report D provides information on click through effectiveness of any clickable ads delivered via the media platform such as via an ad insertion rule. The report A may display the number of times a clickable ad was delivered over any time period. This report A may display the number of times the clickable ad was clicked or selected by a user. The report D may display the total number of clickable ads delivered and the total number of times these clickable ads were clicked over any time period. The time period may be user selected or predetermined. The report A may also breakdown the number of clickable ad delivered and number of times clicked by any scope such as for the entire media platform one or more affiliates a published video channel a web site or to one or more users.

The report N provides information on user interaction with any ad videos delivered via the media platform such as via one or more ad insertion rules. The report A may identify any of the actions taken by the user via the media player while the video ad is being delivered or played. For example the report N may identify any player control actions such as stop restart pause and fast forward or rewind. The report N may also identify the duration or percentage of playback of the video the remaining time to complete duration or whether or the video was completely played. The report N may identify any user actions or user activity with respect to a session with the web site a session with the media player such as a playback session or a session via the media platform . For example the report N may identify the length of the user session or the stop and start times of the user session.

The reporting service may generate and provide any of the reports A N across any applicable scope of entity of the media platform such as for each any or all affiliates publishers content owners distributors aggregators users advertisers advertising networks. For example any of the reports A N may be generated for all ad insertion usage across the media platform or for ad insertion rule for a specific or selected entity. The reporting service may generate and provide any of the reports A N for any granularity of scope such as for the usage of an ad insertion rule for a particular time period days weeks months or years or for the usage of an ad insertion rule at a particular instant in time. The reporting service may generated and provide any of the reports A N for a combination of scope of entity and ad insertion rules.

Referring now to an embodiment of steps of a method for providing usage reports regarding ad insertion rules is depicted. In brief overview at step the data acquisition service collects data regarding the media platform s delivery for ads via one or more ad insertion rules. At step a usage report is identified or selected. Any input parameters to the report may be provided such as identifying an ad insertion rule to run the report for. At step the reporting service generates the usage report from the collected data stored in a data storage by the acquisition service. At step the reporting service provides or distributed the generated report.

In further detail at step the data acquisition service obtains data regarding the operation performance and or effectiveness of the media platform and the delivery of ads via ad insertion rules. The data acquisition service may subscribe to receive from or request from the stream composition service media player or any other services of the media platform any events data and information regarding the operation and performance with respect thereto. The data acquisition service may store any information on the delivery of the ads and the usage and triggering of ad insertion rules into the data storage . For example the data acquisition service may store temporal information describing the insertion points at which ads are delivered in accordance with an ad insertion rule. The data acquisition service may store any values of rule criteria related to the triggering of an ad insertion rule. The data acquisition service may obtain and store to the data storage information regarding the following 1 the number of various ad formats delivered 2 total number of ad formats delivered by ad type 3 the quantity time and formats of ads delivered per ad insertion rule 4 the number of clickable ads versus the number of ads clicked and 5 user actions and interactions with video ads media player or web site.

At step via the reporting service a usage report may be identified and selected for generation. For example a user may select any one of the usage reports A N described in . In some embodiments the user may select a predefined report. In other embodiments the user may create a custom report or user defined report. In some cases the user provides input information to run the report such as a time period. For example a report may prompt the user for input information. The report may request or a user may provide any information to identify the scope of entity or granularity of data for which to run the report . In one embodiment the reporting service or a user identifies an ad insertion rule for which to obtain a usage report . In another embodiment the reporting service or user identifies a set of ad rules for which to obtain a usage report . In yet another embodiment the reporting service provides a usage report for each of the ad insertion rules configured or defined in the media platform.

At step the reporting service uses the collected data in the data storage to generate and provide a usage report . Based on any of the input parameters or identified ad insertion rule s the reporting service obtains applicable data and information from the collected data of the data storage. In some embodiments the reporting service queries interfaces to or communicated with any service system program application or database to obtain information requested by or needed for a report . In one embodiment the reporting service generates a usage report for one or more identified ad insertion rules. A user may identify the ad insertion rules as an input parameter to a report or by selecting a usage report to run. The reporting service may generate a usage report on a predetermined schedule or frequency such as in accordance with a business rule or policy. The reporting service may generate a usage report in an ad hoc manner such as per a user requesting the report via a user interface.

At step the reporting service provides the generated usage report . The reporting service may present the generated report via a user interface such as the console. In other embodiments the reporting service may present the generated report via a dashboard. In another embodiment the reporting service may distribute the generated report via email to one or more users. In other embodiments the report service may export or provide the data in any desired format such as comma separated files or for import into Microsoft Excel spreadsheet.

With the dynamic and variable characteristics of both on demand video and ad insertion and the configurability and flexibility of ad insertion rules there may be a wide range of results effects and or performance of the media platform with respect to the delivery of ads. The reporting systems and methods described herein provide a way to review and measure the effectiveness and performance of ad insertion rules. With feedback provided by these usage reports on the delivery of ads via ad insertion rules user may change configure or create ad insertion rules to further optimize or improve the delivery of ads and ad delivering during the playback of video media.

Referring now to systems and methods of an ad inventory forecasting service for forecasting advertising inventory based on ad insertion rules and or collected data is described. As the media platform and or stream composition service is able to improve the delivery of ads via ad insertion rules and collected data an inventory forecasting service may forecast or estimate the available ad inventory based on collected data and application of the ad insertion rules. For example a customer may want to buy ad impressions for a campaign and would like to know if they could sell 50 000 impressions of an ad during a certain part of day and in a certain category. Using the forecasting systems and methods described herein the media platform provides information on the ad inventory available to a campaign based on campaign parameters and application of ad insertion rules.

Referring now to an embodiment of the inventory forecasting service is depicted . In brief overview the inventory forecasting service may include a forecaster which accesses or obtains data such as historical ad viewer ship data from a data storage . The forecaster may use a forecasting or estimation methodology upon the data and input from one or more parameters to determine a total ad inventory . The inventory forecasting service may include a simulator to simulate one or more what if scenarios of changing ad insertion rules and targeted ad campaign parameters to determine total ad inventory . The inventory forecasting service may include one or more types of output such as reports to provide information on the total ad inventory from the forecaster and or simulator .

In further detail the forecaster may include or perform any type and form of forecasting methodology technique algorithm logic function or operation. The forecaster may include software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The forecaster may include an application program process service task or set of executable instructions for performing a forecasting methodology. In one embodiment the forecaster performs time series forecasting or provides a time series based forecast. The forecaster may use and type and form of a model to predict future events based on known past events or to otherwise predict future data points before they are measured based on past data points. The forecaster performs or provides any type and form of time series forecasting such as Box Jenkins and linear regression The forecaster may use any type and form of autoregressive AR models integrated I models or a moving average MA model such as the Autoregressive Moving Average Models ARMA and Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average ARIMA models.

The forecaster computes forecasts predicts estimates or otherwise provides a total ad inventory forecast . As depicted in the total inventory is a function of the total audience available ai over a period of time and the spot load sl of the ad Total inventory The total audience may be expressed as the number of video clips delivered over a period of time and the spot load may be expressed as number of ads per video clip. Although the total inventory is shown as a multiplying function of available inventory and spot load any type and form of function may used to determine the total inventory based on available inventory and spot load. In one embodiment the total inventory may be determined using the available inventory and spot load and a configurable or predetermined factor such as Total inventory factor The predetermined factor may be used to take into account errors risks and other factors in forecasting the total ad inventory .

In forecasting the available inventory the forecaster may use or more parameters as illustrated in . In an example embodiment the forecaster may use the following parameters observed over a period of time

In some embodiments the forecaster obtains any one or more of the parameters from the data storage . In other embodiments the forecaster obtains any parameter from the data acquisition service or any other service of the media platform . In another embodiment the forecaster provides a user interface graphical or command line for a user to enter input or provide one or more of the parameters . In yet another embodiment the forecaster performs computations on data from the data storage a service such as the data acquisition service and or from the user to obtain or generate a parameter .

The forecaster may determine or use an available inventory ai comprising any time span or portion thereof. In some embodiments the available inventory includes a number of media streams served or delivered. In other embodiments the forecaster use an available inventory based on number of media streams player or played for a predetermined duration of time. The forecaster may use an available inventory based on the number of media streams played to completion. The forecaster may use an available inventory based on the number of media streams for which an ad was clicked or a video as played or for which a predetermined number of ads were clicked or a video ad played for a predetermined duration. The forecaster may determine or use the number of media stream server or delivered over a predetermined time period. In some cases the forecaster determines or uses as the available inventory the number of streams served during a part of the time during the time period and or category or type of content. For example the forecaster may determine available inventory for evenings when football clips are playing. In other embodiments the forecaster determines or uses as the available inventory the number of streams served via a video channel a web site distributor or affiliate.

The forecaster may determine or use for the spot load sl of the total inventory a number of ads played clicked or delivered. For the available inventory the forecaster may determine or use as the spot load a number of ads delivered or served to the audience. In other embodiments the forecaster may determine or uses as the spot load a number of ads played such as a number of ads played by the determined audience. In some embodiments the forecaster may use as the spot load the number of ads that were clicked or selected by a user. In another embodiment the forecaster may use as the spot load the number of ads played back for a predetermined duration. In some embodiments the forecaster may use as the spot load a statistical computation of spot load such as an average number of ads delivered or played over a period of time a part of date a content category or type or a user profile. In one embodiment the forecaster may use a spot load based on a number of ads delivered or player on a per user basis.

The forecaster may determine a spot load based on ad insertion rules . For a given audience or number of streams server or played the forecaster may determine which of the ad insertion rules would be triggered or cause an ad to be delivered or played to the audience. The forecaster may use any static dynamic or progressively dynamic ad insertion rule or any combination thereof to forecast a spot load. The forecaster may determine based on any data in the data store the number of ads that would or should delivered based on applying a set of one or more ad insertion rules. A user may specify a set of ad insertion rule s to use for forecasting. The forecaster may determine a spot load based on insertion points of ad insertion rules such as from data identifying number of insertion points at which ads were delivered. The forecaster may determine a spot load based on an average number of insertion points at which ads were delivered for example on a per rule basis.

The simulator may include or perform any type and form of simulation technique model algorithm logic function or operation. The simulator may include software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The simulator may include an application program process service task or set of executable instructions for performing a simulation. In one embodiment the simulator performs a what if scenario for a time series forecast of the forecaster by changing one or more ad insertion rules parameters and or data . In some embodiments the simulator includes the functionality of or interfaces to the forecaster . The simulator may provide a front end to the forecaster such as user interface to allow a user to create ad campaign scenarios. The simulator may allow a user to change input to the forecaster or otherwise control and manipulate the input to determine the output. The user may change the inputs to the simulation or forecasting until a desired output is determined. The simulator may simulate the execution of one or more ad insertion rules over an identified audience. The simulator may use historical data in the data store to determine when and for what stream an ad insertion rule may deliver an ad.

The inventory forecasting service may provide output from the forecaster and or simulator via inventory forecasting output such as via reports. The inventory forecasting output may identify and or describe the total inventory and any parameters or calculations of the total inventory as determined by the forecaster . Likewise The inventory forecasting output may identify and or describe the total inventory based on any simulations or what if scenarios simulated and provided by the simulator . The inventory forecasting output may be any user interface form such as a web page text output document report or other electronically readable output means. For example the inventory forecasting output may be provided in the form of a table or spreadsheet.

Referring now to an embodiment of steps of a method for performing forecasting and simulation to determine a total available inventory is depicted. In brief overview at step the media platform via the data acquisition service collects data and parameters about the delivery of ads via application of ad insertion rules during playback of video media over a period of time. At step the inventory forecasting service identifies from the collected data a number of media streams served or played. At step the inventory forecasting service identifies from the collected data a number of ads delivered or played At step the inventory forecasting service receives input for performing a forecast such as an ad requested to be delivered target information ad insertion rule or input parameters. At step the inventory forecasting service performs a forecast based on the identified data and received input. At step a simulation of a what if scenario or forecast may be performed by changing input to the simulator or forecaster .

At step the media platform via the data acquisition service collects data regarding the delivery of ads via the application of ad insertion rules. The data acquisition service stores this data into a data storage . As previously described herein for example in conjunction with the data acquisition service may collect data regarding the operation performance and or effectiveness of the ad insertion rules including number and format of ads delivered duration of ad play user actions user profile and user behavior history information. The data acquisition service may also store any temporal information regarding the insertion points for the delivery or playback of ads via the ad insertion rules.

At steps and the inventory forecasting service forecaster and or simulator may identify data to use for forecasting and or simulation from the collected data in the data storage . The data may be identified for any time period including day parts. In one embodiment the forecaster identifies from the collected data a number of media streams delivered or served. In another embodiment the forecaster identifies from the collected data a number of media streams played or played for a predetermined duration. In some embodiments the forecaster identifies from the collected data a number of ads delivered or server. In other embodiments the forecaster identifies from the collected data a number of ads played or played for a predetermined duration. The forecaster may identify any of the following parameters from the collected data 1 days and the hours during which streams where played back 2 number of streams 3 audience segment of the user consumer 4 churn rate i.e. how many times an ad was streamed to a user. In some embodiments the forecasting service and or forecaster identifies seasonal trends and special events from the collected data.

At step the forecasting service forecaster and or simulator receives any input to perform the forecasting or simulation from any type and form of interface such as a graphical user interface command line or API. In one embodiment the forecaster receives identification of an ad requested to be delivered or for which a total available inventory should be determined. In another embodiment the forecaster receives identification of one or more ad insertion rules to apply or use for the forecast. In other embodiments the forecaster receives any one or more parameters such as a parameter provided by a user. In some embodiments the forecaster receives any target information for an ad campaign such as a target audience a target time period or a category for the requested ad.

At step the forecaster forecasts estimates predicts or otherwise determines a total available inventory based on the identified portions of the collected data and or the received input. The forecaster may determine the total available inventory as any type function of available inventory ai and spot load sl for example as depicted in and discussed above in conjunction with . The forecaster may determine the spot load based on any one or more identified ad insertion rules. The forecaster may use a time series forecasting model or methodology. The forecaster may determine the total available inventory for any time period day part category or target audience. The forecaster may use any slice of historical data or time periods from the collected data to forecast the total available inventory . In one embodiment the forecaster determines a forecast of total inventory for a requested ad based on the identified number of times each of a plurality of video media was played the identified number of ads delivered during playback of the video media and an identified set of one or more ad insertion rules

At step the inventory forecasting service may perform one or more inventory forecast simulations via the simulator . A user may request or initiate the simulation. In some embodiments a system application or process may initiate automatically or otherwise a simulation. In one embodiment a user may change any input for the simulation such as to create different target information a different audience segment or use different ad insertion rules. In another embodiment the user may change one or more parameters used for a forecast. In some embodiments a user changes one or more of the ad insertion rules to determine an effect on a forecasted total inventory such as changing a rule criteria or ad format or location. A user may create what if scenarios and perform what if analysis by changing any input to the forecast to determine how the input impacts or affects the output of total ad inventory .

Via forecasting and simulation as described above a user may be able to further improve or optimize ad insertion rules and the delivery of ads for a target ad campaign. A user may determine what type of ad insertion rules audience segment and time slots may work better for an ad campaign. With forecasting and simulation the user can optimize ad insertion rules to increase viewer ship and click through on ads and increase revenue and advertising rates. With the flexibility in targeting of ad insertion rules the media platform described above provides the functionality to offer various tiered and levels of advertising services and ad campaigns.

Many alterations and modifications may be made by those having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore it must be expressly understood that the illustrated embodiments have been shown only for the purposes of example and should not be taken as limiting the invention which is defined by the following claims. These claims are to be read as including what they set forth literally and also those equivalent elements which are insubstantially different even though not identical in other respects to what is shown and described in the above illustrations.

