---

title: Method and apparatus for merchant search and offer presentation
abstract: Systems, methods, apparatus, computer program code, and means for receiving a search request from a user operating a wireless device, determining at least one of a location and a desired search location of the user, determining a search response based on a user profile and the at least one of a location and a desired search location, and transmitting a response to the wireless device. In some embodiments, the response includes at least one of an offer and a display sequence selected based at least in part on the user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655381&OS=08655381&RS=08655381
owner: MasterCard International Incorporated
number: 08655381
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080324
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 896 532 filed Mar. 23 2007 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

Handheld electronic communication devices such as personal digital assistants or PDAs cellular telephones and the like are in wide use. Many of these devices allow users to interact with Internet data sources to retrieve data. For example some cellular telephone users can obtain directory information maps and other location based information. Some companies such as Yahoo and Go2 allow wireless device users to enter search terms and retrieve search results based on their location. For example a wireless device user can search for a restaurant near Grand Central Station in New York City and retrieve a list of restaurants and their addresses.

The several embodiments described herein are provided solely for the purpose of illustration. Embodiments may include any currently or hereafter known versions of the elements described herein. Therefore persons in the art will recognize from this description that other embodiments may be practiced with various modifications and alterations.

Applicants have recognized a need for systems methods apparatus computer program code and means for receiving a search request from a user operating a wireless device determining at least one of a location and a desired search location of the user determining a search response based on a user profile and the at least one of a location and a desired search location and transmitting a response to the wireless device. In some embodiments the response includes at least one of an offer and a display sequence selected based at least in part on the user profile. In some embodiments the user profile is formed based on the user s transaction history using one or more payment accounts e.g. such as one or more credit card or debit card accounts . In some embodiments the user profile is further formed based on the user s transaction characteristics. In some embodiments the user profile includes at least one customer category.

A number of terms are used herein. These terms are not intended to be limiting but instead are provided for clarity and ease of exposition. For example the term mobile device will be used to refer to a device such as a cellular or wireless telephone a PDA a computer or the like that is able to communicate wirelessly over a network. The term payment card will be used to refer to a payment card account such as a credit card account a debit card account and other financial transaction accounts. The term cardholder will be used to refer to the individual or entity to whom a payment card has been issued.

The term payment card issuer is used to refer to the financial institution or entity that issued a payment card to a cardholder including providing the cardholder with a physical or electronic card or access device and establishing an account relationship with the cardholder . The term payment card association is used to refer to an association such as MasterCard International or the like pursuant to whose rules the payment card is issued. The term payment card transaction data is used to refer to data identifying specific transactions a cardholder has entered into using the payment card. For example payment card transaction data may include data identifying a transaction amount a transaction data a merchant identifier a merchant category and the like. As used herein the term merchant is generally used to refer to a provider of goods or services such as a retailer or other location. The term also is used to generically refer to other types of locations for example the term as used herein encompasses other items a user may desire to search for such as an automated teller machine or ATM a library a governmental office a tourist destination etc. .

Prior to presenting a detailed description of features of some embodiments of the present invention a brief illustrative example may be helpful. In the illustrative example a user has registered to participate in the system of the present invention. The user is a cardholder of at least one payment card issued pursuant to the rules of a payment card association. In the example the cardholder has a MasterCard credit card issued by Chase Manhattan Bank. The cardholder has made a number of purchases using the payment card. This transaction history and other profile information about the cardholder indicates that the cardholder is a Male in the age group 30 45 who frequently uses his payment card for travel and entertainment expenses and more particularly uses his payment card at high end restaurants e.g. where the average transaction price is greater than 100 or some other threshold .

The cardholder using a client application on his cellular telephone to interact with the system of the present invention submits a search request for a restaurant near 1 West 4Street in New York. The system of the present invention receives the search request and consults a number of data sources to retrieve a list of restaurants near the search location that accept MasterCard payment cards for payment. The results are further processed to identify any restaurants having one or more current offers or deals available to MasterCard payment card cardholders. The system uses this information in addition to the cardholder s transaction history and profile information to select one or more restaurants having offers that may be particularly appealing to the cardholder. In the example the cardholder s transaction history indicates that the cardholder frequents high end restaurants.

Restaurants and offers matching the cardholder s profile and search location are identified and returned possibly along with a selection of other restaurants near the search location and are displayed on the cardholder s cellular telephone. The results may be displayed in a sequence. For example the first restaurant on the list may be the restaurant nearest the search location that also has an offer. As another example the first restaurant on the list may be the restaurant that most closely matches the cardholder s profile and that also has an offer available. For example a high end restaurant one block from the search location may have a 10 offer to MasterCard cardholders. The offer terms may be presented to the cardholder on the display screen of his cellular phone. If the cardholder wishes to use the offer he may ask that the offer be sent to his cellular phone as a message e.g. such as a short message service message or SMS message so that he can present an offer code or offer identifier to the restaurant when he patronizes the restaurant.

In this manner the cardholder is able to perform location based searches and receive results that are both highly relevant and contain offers that may be of great interest to the cardholder. Merchants are able to target offers and promotions to potential customers who have a current interest in their product e.g. the customer is currently and actively performing a search for the merchant s location or goods or services and in some embodiments who have demonstrated an interest in their type or quality of the product offered by the merchant. Further features and benefits of some embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the following detailed description.

Now referring to an embodiment of a system pursuant to some embodiments is shown. The system may comprise an information distributor a plurality of mobile devices and one or more data sources such as merchant data source location data source and transaction history data source . In general information distributor interacts with mobile devices to receive and process location based search results and to return search response data based on data from one or more data sources.

The mobile devices may be but are not limited to handheld phones or other wireless devices that are capable of communicating over one or more networks with information distributor . Each mobile device may include a client application to allow a user of the device to create and submit search requests to information distributor . Client application also operates to display any search response data in a readable format for the user. Each mobile device may include an output device and one or more input devices not shown allowing a user of the device to submit and view data including search data associated with the present invention. In some embodiments one or more of the mobile devices may include positioning technology to allow data identifying a current geographic location of the device to be associated with a search request. For example one or more of mobile devices may be configured with a Global Positioning System GPS receiver allowing detection of a current location of the device. Other location identification technologies may also be used such as the enhanced 911 location services currently being adopted in the United States. The client application may be an applet or application that may be downloaded to the device over the air or remotely. For example in some embodiments the client application may be but is not limited to a WAP enabled browser or a Java application or applet. In general client application includes features allowing submission of search requests to information distributor and receipt and viewing of search responses.

The information distributor may comprise one or more servers such as server a matching process and communication devices not shown allowing communication with a a plurality of mobile devices and b one or more data sources such as merchant data source location data source and transaction history data source . In some embodiments the information distributor may be but is not limited to a system operated by or on behalf of a financial institution a clearing association a payment card association or other service provider interacting with customers and data sources to offer the services described herein. For the purpose of illustrating features of the present invention throughout the remainder of this disclosure the entity operating information distributor will be MasterCard International a payment card association and the customers operating mobile devices will be MasterCard payment cardholders.

The server may communicate with one or more mobile devices through a variety of means such as but not limited to a wireless network a telecom tower and a satellite. The server may contain one or more processors and may be one or more network servers or computers. The processor or processors may execute instructions stored in the medium not shown . The medium may be but is not limited to one or more disk drive systems flash memory firmware or read only memory. The server may include software programmed to perform matching process or the matching process may be performed on separate server or computer systems not necessarily owned or controlled by the entity operating information distributor . The server may directly or indirectly access the data in external data sources such as data sources . In some embodiments one or more of the data sources are operated by third parties not directly associated with the entity operating information distributor . For example the location data source may be operated by an entity offering location based services and may expose the data to information distributor through an application programming interface API .

In the embodiment depicted in merchant datasource includes information about particular merchants including offers made by those merchants to participating users of the system. For example data in merchant datasource may include the following types of information about each participating merchant a merchant identifier a merchant name a merchant address one or more merchant category identifiers such as SIC codes or MCC codes one or more current offers extended by the merchant including any terms and conditions of the offers and in some embodiments desired customer characteristics or segments that the offers may be targeted to. Some of this information may be obtained from existing databases e.g. such as merchant databases created by a payment card association such as MasterCard International . Other information such as offer data may be collected directly from participating merchants through a merchant interface not shown .

Location datasource may include information used to identify a geographic location of a mobile device or a search request based on an entered address zip code or latitude and longitude as well as information used to identify a geographic location of a merchant. A number of entities offer location databases that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention. For example the location based search databases accessible via www.go2.com www.google.com and others may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention. In some embodiments some or all of the data of the merchant datasource and location datasource may be combined into a single datasource.

Transaction history datasource may include information associated with individual or aggregate transactions conducted by users of the system. In the illustrative example introduced above transaction history datasource may include data identifying previous MasterCard payment transactions conducted by participating users. This data may be used in some embodiments to segment or cluster individual cardholders into groups based on their transaction histories. As a specific illustrative example cardholders may be segmented or clustered by age group by transaction size by preferred merchant category by spending habits or the like.

The data retrieved by information distributor to respond to a particular search request received from a mobile device are manipulated by matching process to create a search response message that includes highly relevant data for the user. In some embodiments matching process is configured to a select merchant locations that are near the search location submitted by the user of mobile device b identify relevant offers for those merchants and c organize the selected locations and offers such that a relevant and targeted search response can be presented to the user in a logical manner that makes efficient use of the small display size of a typical mobile device.

Now referring to an embodiment of a process is illustrated. Process may be executed by any combination of hardware software and firmware. For example process may be implemented by server of information distributor . Process begins at where a search request is received at information distributor . The search request may be initiated by a user operating a mobile device such as mobile device of . In some embodiments a client application on the user s mobile device provides a user interface graphical text or the like that allows the user to enter a search request. For example the search request may be a request for a specific merchant near a location or for a specific category or type of goods or services. The user s interaction with mobile device may be facilitate by a search menu that allows the user to select a type of search. For example the search menu may prompt the user to search by category or by merchant or by offer in or near a location. The search data is transmitted from mobile device to information distributor over one or more networks such as a cellular network and or the Internet.

Processing continues at where a location of the user or a desired search location of the user is determined. In some embodiments the user s current location may be determined by identifying a location of the mobile device associated with the user. The location of the mobile device may be determined by but not limited to a global positioning system GPS a global positioning satellite or by triangulating telecom towers. In some embodiments the location of the user may be determined by stored user information containing one or more locations associated with the user. For example the user may establish a user profile identifying one or more user locations. Each of the locations may be identified and selected by the user while interacting with the client application on mobile device . For example the user may select to search for merchants near his home where data identifying his home address may be stored in the system and associated with the user s profile or stored in the client application of the user s mobile device . In some embodiments the user may specify a desired search location e.g. by entering a desired zip code area code or street address when submitting the search request.

Continuing the illustrative example introduced above the payment cardholder may submit a search request for a restaurant near a particular location. The cardholder may select to search for restaurants near his current physical location e.g. determined based on location data associated with his cell phone using for example GPS location data e911 data or the like . The cardholder may also pick a prestored location like home or may input information identifying the search location such as 1 West 4Street New York or search area Lower West Side Manhattan . The cardholder may also specify a search distance. For example the cardholder may request a search of restaurants within mile of the search location.

Upon receipt of this information information distributor may may determine a response at . The response may be based on a profile of the user and the location or search location of the user. In some embodiments the response may include information identifying at least one merchant matching the search request and location. In some embodiments the profile of the user may be a user profile that contains a category preference browsing habits transaction history and one or more purchasing profiles categories or clusters the user may be associated with.

Continuing the illustrative example introduced above the cardholder is a MasterCard cardholder and some information about the cardholder s transaction history is made available to the information distributor e.g. via transaction history datasource . For example the cardholder typically uses his payment card for travel and entertainment expenses and frequents higher priced restaurants. As such the cardholder may be generally associated with a high income or travel and entertainment expense cluster of users. As such when creating a response to the search request the merchant data e.g. from merchant datasource matching the search request will be matched with location data e.g. from location datasource and transaction history data e.g. from transaction history datastore to select the restaurants that most closely match the cardholder s cluster user profile and search location. In some embodiments any matched merchants that also have offers will be identified. The matching process may sort the results in a ranked order so that when the results are displayed on the display device of the mobile device they the displayed results are most relevant to the cardholder.

Processing continues at where information distributor sends the search response to the mobile device associated with the user who requested the search. In some embodiments the search results are sent in a compact file format that may easily be parsed and displayed by client application installed on mobile device . The data file may include a number of data items including merchant name location data directions from the search location merchant details and any offers or discounts currently extended by the merchant to system participants.

Continuing the illustrative example the top result for the cardholder may be a higher priced Italian restaurant that has a 10 discount offer to MasterCard cardholders and may not necessarily be a restaurant located exactly at the search address . A cardholder with a different profile transaction history or cluster would not necessarily receive the same results or the same order of results. In this manner embodiments ensure targeted delivery of highly relevant and personalized results so that users may quickly make a buying decision despite a large number of merchant matches and the small display size of most mobile devices.

In some embodiments the user may accept or receive detailed terms of a merchant s offer by requesting an offer code or identifier be sent to the user s mobile device via an SMS message or the like. In this manner if and when the user patronizes the merchant location the user can present the offer code or identifier to the merchant to redeem the offer.

Pursuant to some embodiments a distinction may be made between registered and unregistered users. For example in some embodiments an operator of information distributor of may allow a wide range of users to perform searches and receive results. However only registered users or users who have created a user profile with information distributor may have their search results filtered based on their transaction history. Other features may be made accessible to the registered users but not the unregistered users for example a registered user may enjoy the ability to receive offer details in an SMS message or the ability to view a map with directions to matched merchant locations etc. . In the illustrative example the universe of users who can utilize the service without registering may be all MasterCard payment cardholders.

Referring now to an embodiment which uses such a distinction between registered users and non registered users is shown. In particular a process pursuant to some embodiments is illustrated. Process may be executed by any combination of hardware software and firmware including but not limited to the system of . Processing begins at where a user interacts with client application on mobile device to selects a search guide from a main menu.

Processing continues at where a determination is made if the user has a set location. If the user has not set a location in the system then a set location process is executed allowing the user to specify a search location. Processing continues at where a determination is made if the user is a registered user.

If the user is a registered user then the user will be shown on a display device of his mobile device a first registered users view that may include the user s current location an option to change their location one or more links to categories of merchants or items of interest e.g. ATM Entertainment Travel etc. links to retrieve any recent searches links to any saved searches and a link to initiate a new search. If the user is not a registered user then the user will be shown on a display device of his mobile device a first non registered users view that may include the user s current location an option to change their location one or more links to categories of merchants or items of interest e.g. ATM Entertainment Travel etc. links to retrieve any recent searches and a link to initiate a new search. In some embodiments the displayed choices for a non registered user may be different than for a registered user.

Processing continues at where the user registered or non registered may interact with the items on the registered users view to browse through categories saved searches or the like or to initiate a search. The user may perform these actions using a keypad or touchscreen input device of the user s mobile device . When a user is satisfied with his search terms or request the user causes the search to be submitted to information distributor via one or more networks. The request is received at information distributor and processing continues at where the information distributor causes one or more datasources to be queried to return matching results. For example in the embodiment depicted a content datasource and an offer datasource are shown. The content datasource includes for example merchant data and location data. In some embodiments content datasource also includes transaction data or cluster data used to identify transaction characteristics of a registered user.

Processing at includes matching returned content data and offer data for presentation in a search response to the user. In some embodiments the search response data returned to a registered user at may be different than the search response data returned to a non registered user at . For example at the search response data sent to a registered user includes a list of results and related offers if any . The results include the merchant or location name and a distance from the search location. The user may access further detailed information about each merchant and each offer if desired. Further the registered user may elect to save the search results while the non registered user in may not save the results .

As shown at and both a registered and a non registered user may interact with the search results by selecting one of the results to view more detail e.g. by operating an input device on the mobile device . As shown at and the registered user and non registered user may see different details. The registered user may view data such as a merchant name location hours of operation merchant ratings a map of or to the merchant location a link to obtain detailed directions to the location a link to offer details if one or more offers are made by the merchant an option to have the offer data including for example an offer identifier or code usable to redeem the offer and an option to perform a free text search for items such as a merchant name category or the like near the merchant location.

As shown at in some embodiments the non registered user may be able to view similar data but may not be able to perform several actions such as receive an SMS offer view maps or directions etc. These differences between a registered and non registered user are purely for illustration those skilled in the art will recognize that different offerings may be made to different types of users. Further other types of classes of users may also be defined such as standard users premium users etc. .

Referring now to one illustrative embodiment of a mobile device is shown pursuant to some embodiments. As shown mobile device includes a housing a display device an input device and an antenna . Housing may include a processor and memory and the memory may store a client application such as the client application discussed in conjunction with above configured to control or coordinate operation of display device input device and antenna to allow a user of mobile device to submit search requests over a network to information distributor and view search results returned from information distributor pursuant to the present invention. Mobile device may be configured in any of a number of different ways as known in the art. For example additional or different input devices may be provided additional or different housings may be provided additional or different antennas and display devices may be provided etc.

As shown display is displaying sample search response data. In the depicted embodiment a six merchants have been returned as search results two of the merchants have offers associated with them. In use each of the merchant names and related information may be hyperlinks allowing the user to click on or otherwise select the text area to display a new page or display of information associated with the merchant. In some embodiments as discussed above the presentation of search results on display device may vary based on the user characteristics or profile. For example a user whose transaction history with his MasterCard payment card indicates that he is a Male aged 30 45 who frequently uses his MasterCard for travel and entertainment purchases at high end merchants will receive a different search listing and possibly different offers than would a MasterCard payment cardholder whose transaction history indicates that she is a Female aged 21 30 who uses her MasterCard payment card for clothing and budget retailers. In this manner the limited size display of most mobile devices is maximized highly relevant search results and offers are generally listed at the top of the list ensuring that users get the relevant information and offers and that merchant offers have a higher likelihood of redemption.

Referring now to another mobile device is shown with a display that shows details for a particular merchant. The details may include information such as the merchant name the merchant address and a distance from the current location. In some embodiments the detailed display may include a coupon or offer. For example the offer may include an offer code or identifier that when redeemed by the user at the offering merchant will provide a discount on services to the user.

The foregoing disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope set forth in the appended claims.

