---

title: Image querying with relevance-relative scaling
abstract: Queries may be issued against an image store to produce a set of image instance relating to images in the image store that relate to the query. The relevance of the images to the query may be depicted by scaling the image instances according to the predicted relevance of the image to the query. The image instances may be further positioned within the image instance set query result, e.g., by clustering according to image relatedness or by similar predicted relevance of the images to the query terms of the query. The image instances may also be presented as smoothly zoomable images, such that the user may zoom in on the images in an efficient manner that facilitates realtime, gradual zooming with reduced resampling inefficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08417712&OS=08417712&RS=08417712
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08417712
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080422
---
Many computing scenarios involve a query that results in a set of related images. For example a user may query an image store for images matching a certain keyword or having a certain property or a user may query a data store such as a database of people where data store records are associated with images such as portrait images of the selected individuals. In these scenarios the results are often presented as a set of image instances e.g. as a set of thumbnail images . Moreover the image instances are sometimes presented in a manner that permits the user to select an image instance in order to view the result associated with the image instance e.g. a full size image or the data store record associated with an image instance. 

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The images selected in response to a query may be presented in a manner that signifies the relevance of the selected images to the query. For example the relevance of respective images to the query may be predicted e.g. through a variety of relevance based calculations and in the image set provided in response to the query a first image may be presented in a more significant manner than a second image that is predicted to be less relevant. The significance may be denoted by the position of the image instance in the image instance set e.g. the first image instance may be presented before the second less relevant image instance such as by presenting the first image instance above or to the left of the second image instance in an image instance series of descending relevance.

An alternative technique for indicating significance is by scaling the image instances of respective images in relation to the significance of the image. For example a first image may be presented with a larger image instance as compared with a second image that is predicted to be less relevant to the query. The image instances may therefore be relatively sized in the image set to denote predicted relevance such that the result set is visibly scaled to suggest more heavily the results that are likely to be more relevant to the query. This scaling may be utilized in combination with relevance based positioning e.g. by denoting more relevant results with both larger image instances and earlier result placement as compared with less relevant results or in place of relevance based positioning such that the result images may be positioned in the result set either arbitrarily or based on other criteria.

Relevance relative scaling of image instances may be utilized where the images are smoothly zoomable. However in some undesirable computing scenarios an image may be presented at a zoom level with a reduced amount of information in the image and a lower resulting image quality than may be achieved if the image is computed in a different manner. For example if a user zooms in on a small image instance with comparatively little information the resulting zoomed in image may appear pixilated or blocky where image information has been lost despite the availability of such information in the full size image. However in other computing scenarios this disadvantage may be ameliorated by storing the image in a manner that permits a retrieval of image information suitable for any zoom level. Moreover the image may be stored in a manner that permits a rapid retrieval of such information which may facilitate real time smooth zooming of the image. This technique may be adapted to image instance scaling for image querying such as by presenting query results as a set of smoothly zoomable image instances. Moreover the zoom level of respective image instances in the result set may be selected such that the image instances are relatively scaled to denote the predicted relevance of the images to the query.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In many computing scenarios a query may be issued against a data set that results in a set of images. As a first example the data set may comprise a set of images that are respectively associated with one or more keywords e.g. Eiffel Tower and my friend Kathryn and have one or more properties e.g. black and white 1024 768 resolution and landscape orientation and the query may specify aspects of desired photos e.g. black and white photos of the Eiffel Tower. As a second example the data set may comprise records representing any type of data wherein the records are associated with certain images e.g. a Contacts database comprising logistic information about various people where certain records are associated with an image of the represented person and a query for a particular person or group of people may generate a response including the associated images e.g. portrait images of people selected in response to the query. The images stored in the data store are often too large to be conveniently presented in full resolution in the result set so scaled down image instances may be generated to include smaller representations of the images in the presented query result.

In addition the results of a query may be arranged to indicate the predicted relevance of the results to the query result. For example a query issued against a Contacts data store for people named Kathy Smith may produce results such as Kathryn Smith Kathy Simon and Katie Sullivan. Respective query results may include a predicted relevance with respect to the query according to various statistical and or heuristic metrics e.g. these three individuals may have a predicted relevance based on the textual similarity to the queried name. Moreover the query results may be ordered in the result set with respect to the predicted relevance of the results such that more relevant results are more strongly suggested than less relevant results. For example the results may be presented in a sequence of descending relevance with more relevant query results presented before less relevant query results. Accordingly where the query results include image instances the image instances included in the query result set may be arranged according to the predicted relevance of the respective query results associated with different images.

In view of these scenarios a technique may be devised for presenting the images of a query result set in relation to the predicted relevance of respective images. This technique involves scaling respective images in the result set proportionally to respect to the predicted relevance of the image and or its associated data record such as an individual pictured in the image to the query. Thus the size of an image instance may denote its relevance to the query. This scaling may be predominantly based on the query result relevance metric or may also be related to other factors such as the relevance of the image as compared with the relevance of other images in the result set. For example the scaling may be adjusted such that the image with the highest query relevance score in the result set is presented with predefined large image instance dimensions and other image instances in the query result set are accordingly scaled to diminished dimensions based on the proportionate relevance with respect to the highest scoring image. By scaling the image instances of an image result set based on the predicted relevance with respect to the query the result set may manifest an advantageous weighting of suggested results in an easily understandable visible indicator of relevance.

The techniques discussed herein may be implemented with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or mitigate disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. These aspects and variations thereof may be applied within various embodiments of these techniques such as e.g. the exemplary method of and the exemplary system of . Moreover some variations may be compatibly implemented in combination with other variations either synergistically or in parallel to yield additional advantages and or mitigated disadvantages.

A first aspect that may vary among implementations of these techniques relates to the computation of relevance of an image with respect to a query. It may be appreciated that the relevance computation may positively or negatively rely on many factors such as e.g. properties of the image such as its dimensions format colors contrast and brightness metadata associated with the image such as the date of the image the creator of the image and keywords associated with the image and the contents of the query such as the query terms arrangement or Boolean grouping thereof and the preferences of a user on whose behalf the query is evaluated. It may also be appreciated that many types of relevance computations may be applied to such factors which may be based on statistical analyses heuristics artificial intelligence algorithms etc. For example a string comparison of a query term e.g. Kathryn Smith with an image keyword e.g. Kathryn Simon may involve a Boolean equivalence comparison a simple character counting statistical analysis a substring length based statistical analysis e.g. counting matching characters in a row match and or various heuristics e.g. waiting an identical last name more heavily than an identical first name. Such queries may also specify details about various images that may be evaluated according to sophisticated image evaluation techniques such as artificial vision techniques for example a query may specify two cats and an image processing technique may attempt to analyze the images in the image store to identify and count cat like shapes in the images. Those of ordinary skill in the art may be able to select and or devise many query analysis and or image processing techniques while embodying a query relevance computation as discussed herein.

A particular variation of this first aspect that may be advantageous for these techniques relates to a query relevance score computation based on a query term parsing of the query and based on a preassigned query term relevance score which is assigned to the images with respect to relevant query terms. In this variation the query comprises at least one query term and for respective images the query relevance score may be computed by combining the query term relevance scores of respective query terms of the query relating to the image. The combining may be computed in various ways e.g. summation mean average median average mode average weighting based on the ordering of query terms etc. with an end result of a query relevance score computed for the images on a per query term basis.

An additional variation of this aspect relates to the adjustment of the query term relevance scores associated with an image in the image store according to a user selection. In some scenarios the image instances presented as a query result may be selectable by a user for example the user may indicate a desire to view a full size version of an image by clicking on its image instance. The user selection may be construed as an affirmation by the user that the image may be relevant to the query and in particular to the query terms comprising the query. Accordingly the query term relevance scores relating the selected image to the query terms of the query may be somewhat increased to denote the positive correlation. Conversely if the user declines to select a first image instance and instead selects a second image instance this user selection may be construed as a possible denial of the relevance of the image to the query terms. Accordingly when an image instance is selected the query term relevance scores relating the non selected images to the query terms may be adjusted slightly downward. Accordingly in some embodiments of these techniques upon detecting a user selection of a selected image instance in the image instance set at least one query term relevance score in the image store relating the selected image instance to at least one query term may be adjusted in response to the user selection. In this manner the query term relevance scores may be adjusted in response to user selections to yield better predictions of image relevance in response to future queries.

A second aspect that may vary among implementations of these techniques relates to the generating of scaled image instances based on the computed query relevance scores. In a first variation the scaled image instances may be generated on the fly in response to the query e.g. if an image is computed to have a query relevance of 59 it may be scaled down 59 and preferably to an equivalent extent all dimensions so as to maintain the aspect ratio of the image and included in the prepared image instance set. The scaling may also be adjusted e.g. to generate image instances within a desired scaling range . For example it may be desirable to present image instances no smaller than 50 so a scaling adjustment factor may be applied to produce proportionate scaling within the range of 50 to 100 wherein a 50 relevance score results in a 75 scaled image instance a 75 relevance score results in an 87.5 scaled image instance etc. However this on the fly scaling may be computationally intensive particularly for a computer system servicing a large volume of queries and or including a large number of image instances in an image set. Moreover this variation may be inefficient in view of a repeated scaling of an image to the same or a similar extent e.g. repeatedly scaling down an image to 50 in response to a popular query. This inefficiency may be somewhat mitigated with a scaled image instance cache but this mitigation involves an additional complexity and additional memory storage. In a second variation the image store may comprise for respective images a scaled image instance series e.g. a set series of image instances scaled to 20 40 60 and 80 . When a query relevance score is computed for the image a scaled image instance may be selected from the scaled image instance series in the image store that is scaled proportionally or approximately proportionately with respect to the query relevance score of the image.

A third variation of this aspect relates to techniques involving smoothly zoomable images. This variation may relate to the computational burden of storing and scaling the image to the presentation and quality of the images included in the query result and to the user experience while interacting with the image instances in the query result.

It may be appreciated that images of various resolutions contain different amounts of image data and accordingly present different amounts of image information. It may also be appreciated that the scaling of images may provide a reduction of image quality particularly where an image is scaled up from a lower resolution. illustrates one example wherein an original full size image is scaled down to a small version useful as a small image instance . The down scaling of the image reduces the amount of information in the small image instance and reduces the image information provided thereby but may be adequate for use as an image instance. However if the user wishes to zoom in on the small image instance to a medium size image the computer system servicing the user such as a web browser on a client machine through which the query was issued to an image querying system and to which the query result was presented may not have access to the image information that might be included in a medium size image but that is not present in the small image instance. Accordingly a medium size image generated by zooming in on and up scaling the small image instance is presented in a pixilated and blocky appearance with a reduced image quality. The reduced image quality becomes more apparent with greater up scaling such that the full size image is of markedly lower quality with respect to the original full size image .

Because this resampling inefficiency may arise in many contexts techniques have been devised to facilitate a differential provision of image information from a lower sampled version of an image to a higher sampled version of the image. When the user is provided with a first downsampled image such as a small image instance requests an up sampled image such as to zoom in on the image rather than generating and sending a wholly resampled image as in the computer system hosting the image may generate and send only the additional information that might be included in the up sampled image but that is not present in the down sampled image. illustrates this technique in an exemplary scenario wherein a user zooms in on a small image instance through a series of zoom and scaling levels. If the user is viewing the small image instance and zooms in to produce a somewhat larger image instance the user may simply be sent a small amount of differential image information to supplement the information already present in the small image instance . The differential image information may then be combined with the information in the small image instance to produce a version of the somewhat larger image instance with a full amount of information that may be included within its image resolution limits. This differential computation and delivery of information may continue as the user continues to up scale and zoom in on the image even until the user is viewing a full size image containing all of the image information included in the original full size image .

This differential image information technique such as illustrated in may facilitate the viewing of images at multiple zoom levels. As one example the re use of down sampled information in this technique reduces the computational burden of resampling the original full size image for respective scaling and zoom levels. Moreover by reducing the network transport costs of delivering downsampled images especially at large zoom states near the dimensions of the original image wherein such downsampled images may be very large this technique may permit more rapid rendering of different zoom states of the image which may permit the presentation of a smoothly zoomable image which may be readily viewed at any zoom state by the user.

As an additional variation of this aspect the user actions with respect to zooming into and out of images may be indicative of the relevance of the image with respect to the query. As discussed with respect to variations of the first aspect and as illustrated in images in the image store may be related to various query terms with a preassigned query term relevance score which is assigned to respective images with respect to relevant query terms. Moreover the zooming actions of the user may be evaluated with regard to the apparent relevance of the image to the query terms e.g. if a user opts to zoom in on a first image and does not opt to zoom in on a second image the query term relevance scores for the first image may be increased and or the query term relevance scores for the second image may be decreased. Accordingly in some embodiments of these techniques involving smoothly zoomable image instances upon detecting a user zoom action relating to a zoomed image instance in the image instance set at least one query term relevance score in the image store relating the zoomed image instance to at least one query term may be adjusted in response to the user zoom action.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to an adjustment of the scaling of image instances based on factors other than the query relevance score of the image. Such adjustments may sometimes be desirable e.g. in view of the nature of the images comprising the query result set or the anticipated uses of the image instance set. As a first variation the images selected from the image store may all compute to relatively low relevance scores such as where the query includes query terms that rarely coincide e.g. Eiffel Tower elephant rocket . All resulting image instances may have low query relevance scores but it may be desirable to present those with the highest scores at a reasonably viewable scaling e.g. at least 80 . Conversely a query comprising common query terms e.g. Eiffel Tower Seine River may generate a large number of images with high query relevance scores and it may be desirable to rescale the image instances to differentiate the high scoring image instances from the low scoring image instances e.g. by adjusting scaling factors of image instances with scaling factors of 80 down to 50 and adjusting higher scoring scaling factors proportionally up to non adjusted image instances having a 100 query relevance score. Accordingly some embodiments of these techniques may involve generating an image instance scaled proportionally to the query relevance score of the image and relative to the query relevance scores of other selected images. For example after query relevance scores are calculated for all selected images the frequency spectrum of the query relevance scores may be evaluated in order to select an adjustment factor that is subsequently applied to the query relevance scores of the selected images before generating image instances.

A fourth aspect that may vary among implementations relates to the layout of the image instances within the image instance set. In many querying scenarios query results are presented in order of decreasing relevance and are presented in a vertical and or horizontal ordering reflecting such relevance among the query results. For example a website search often produces a list of links to relevant website organized in a vertical ordering of diminishing predicted relevance to the query. In these techniques image instances in an image instance set presented in response to a query may be organized according to the query relevance of the images e.g. in a horizontal and or vertical ordering of decreasing query relevance scores. illustrate three arrangements of image instances in an image instance set based on various criteria. These figures illustrate an image instance set generated in response to an Eiffel Tower day query wherein the selected images include a very relevant image of the Eiffel Tower at sunset a less relevant image of the Eiffel Tower at night an even less relevant image of the Arc de Triomphe during the day and a low relevance image of the Arc de Triomphe at night. As a first example in the exemplary image instance set of the image instances are horizontally positioned in order of to decreasing query relevance. However because the query relevance is denoted by the scaling of the image instances positionings are also feasible that are spatially related to an order of query relevance.

A fifth aspect that may vary among implementations of these techniques relates to the presentation of the image instances with respect to the images represented by the query results. As one example the presenting may involve associating respective image instances with the image in the image store. As one example the image instance may be associated with a URI hyperlink where the full size image from which the image instance derived may be viewed. Thus if the image instance set is presented to a user in a web browser the user may click on an image instance to view the original full size image. As a second example if respective image instances are associated with a non image data record in a data store e.g. a person record in a Contacts database the image instance may be associated with the record such as through a relational data query e.g. an SQL query that may be executed against the data store to retrieve the data record represented by the image instance. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many associations of image instances with represented images and data items while implementing the techniques discussed herein.

A sixth aspect that may vary among implementations of these techniques relates to the context in which the query is evaluated. In one such context the query is received from a user and the presenting may comprise sending the image instance set to the user. For example the user may issue a query to a server through a client terminal and the query may be evaluated by a server against the image store and returned to the client. In an alternative context the query may be generated by a computer system such as an automated query routinely generated to synchronize two data stores. This context may be applicable to large data stores with highly dynamic content such as news servers or often updated image servers and the query relevance may be representative of the priority of the associated data items e.g. the significance of a news item or the quality of an image in order to organize the order of retrieved items from a large data store. For example if images representing news stories are clustered according to importance and also according to the underlaying news story then the techniques discussed herein may be utilized during an automated query such that at least a few of the most significant images and associated data items are first retrieved and then some of the moderately less significant images and associated data items are next retrieved even if additional images of the same high significance data item are available. Hence the relevance relative image instance scaling techniques discussed herein may be advantageously applied in automated queries to adjust the prioritization of the data items selected in response to the query. Those of ordinary skill in the art may apply the techniques discussed herein to many such contexts.

The variations of the aspects discussed hereinabove may also be implemented in combination with other variations of these aspects. The resulting embodiment may therefore exhibit several advantages and or a reduction of several disadvantages as discussed heretofore. One such combination embodiment is illustrated in illustrating an exemplary method method of presenting images selected from an image store and relating to a query comprising at least one query term and received from a user. The exemplary method may be applied to an image store comprising smoothly zoomable images and having at least one query term relevance score relating the respective image to at least one query term. The images of the image store are therefore presented as image instances scaled according to the predicted relevance of the respective image to the query and positioned within a presentation space.

The exemplary method begins at and involves selecting images from the image store relating to the query. The exemplary method also involves for respective selected images computing a query relevance score relating to the query by combining the query term relevance scores for respective query terms of the query relating to the image. The exemplary method also involves generating an image instance scaled proportionally to the query relevance score relative to the query relevance scores of other selected images and relative to at least one dimension of the presentation space by selecting a smoothly zoomable image instance from the image store and by selecting a zoom level for the smoothly zoomable image instance proportional to the query relevance score of the image. The exemplary method also involves preparing a smoothly zoomable image instance set of smoothly zoomable image instances. The preparing may involve associating respective image instances with the image in the image store. The preparing may also involve positioning the image instances for respective selected images nearer image instances of at least one of related selected images selected images having a similar query relevance score and selected images having a similar query relevance score with respect to respective query terms.

After preparing the smoothly zoomable image instance set the exemplary method involves presenting the smoothly zoomable image instance set by sending the smoothly zoomable image instance set to the user. The exemplary method may also involve upon detecting a user selection of a selected image instance in the image instance set adjusting at least one query term relevance score in the image store relating the selected image instance to at least one query term in response to the user selection. The exemplary method may also involve upon detecting a user zoom action relating to a zoomed image instance in the image instance set adjusting the query term relevance score in the image store relating the zoomed image instance to at least one query term in response to the user zoom action. Having presented to the user a smoothly zoomable image instance set where respective images are scaled proportionally to the predicted relevance of the associated image with the query the exemplary method thereby achieves a representation of the images of the image store with a relevance relative scaling and so ends at .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

