---

title: Method for structural health monitoring using a smart sensor system
abstract: The structural health monitoring method of the present invention utilizes a sensor system to determine information about deformation, stress and/or damage in structural elements. The sensor system and the method employ at least one sensor which comprises a material having fully-reversible nonlinear elasticity. The method comprises associating at least one sensor including a material having fully-reversible nonlinear elasticity with a structural element in a manner whereby stress is transferred from said structural element to said sensor, propagating ultrasound through a portion of the sensor, receiving the ultrasound which has been propagated through at least a portion of the sensor and determining information about the structural element from attenuation and/or time of flight of said received ultrasound.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917311&OS=07917311&RS=07917311
owner: Drexel University
number: 07917311
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. DAAD19 03 1 0213 awarded by Army Research Office the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to a method for structural health monitoring SHM using a sensor system and ultrasound. The sensor system may be used to monitor the structural health of structures including civil engineering structures such as bridges buildings and underwater structures critical structural elements in the automobile aerospace and petrochemical industry as well as storage structures and reactors.

SHM is used to maintain and preserve the structural integrity of structures which degrade over time from exposure to excipient factors such as earthquakes storms pollution vibration traffic and other environmental factors. In the last few decades there has been tremendous interest in developing methods and sensors such as strain gages displacement sensors accelerometers magneto strictive sensors fiber optic sensors and piezoelectric sensors for detecting structural degradation or damage.

Current SHM techniques utilize either global sensing methods or local sensing methods. Global dynamic methods excite a structure using low frequency acoustic waves and detect the resulting corresponding natural frequencies of the structure. The natural frequency data may then be manipulated with various algorithms to locate and quantify damage in simple structures. Global dynamic methods however rely on a relatively small number of low order modes that are insufficiently sensitive to detect localized incipient damage which may be critical to structural integrity. Additionally the application and detection of low frequency excitation typically below 100 Hz is easily contaminated by surrounding vibrations and noise. Global static methods such as static displacement response and static strain measurement are also impractical since they are too expensive to enable a cost and time efficient structural evaluation.

Local sensing methods such as ultrasonic wave propagation techniques acoustic emissions magnetic field analysis electrical methods dye penetrant testing impact echo testing and X ray radiography are also problematic. A common limitation of local sensing methods is that a probe needs to be moved around the structure to first identify a potential site of structural damage if the location of structural weakness is not already known. Attempts to overcome this difficulty with varying success included measuring the response from an array of piezoelectric patches on the surface magneto elastic sensors and fiber Bragg grating methods.

Of the various local sensing methods ultrasonic wave propagation is one of the most promising enabling detection of damage and structural flaws with a high degree of sensitivity. Examples of ultrasonic wave propagation are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 996 480 and Lars Lading et al. Fundamentals for Remote Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbine Blades Riso National Laboratory 2002. The main drawback of the ultrasonic method is that it requires several transducers to be installed at various locations to monitor a particular structure due to the attenuation and absorption of sound waves in these structures. Often ultrasonic transducer installation is time consuming and expensive making such methods impractical.

Ultrasonic methods also typically require complex data processing. In addition to being expensive ultrasonic methods also render the structure unavailable for use throughout the duration of the test. Due to the nature of sound waves excitation means for the ultrasonic transducers has to be coupled directly onto the structure being monitored. In addition such systems typically only work over relatively narrow temperature ranges and under limited environmental conditions.

In spite of recent innovations as far as the inventors are aware no sensor to date enables highly sensitive detection of various types of deformation under a wide range of variable atmospheric corrosive and temperature conditions. Current sensors additionally require complex data processing and large amounts of information to analyze structural deformation. Therefore there is a need to develop a sensor system capable of extracting important parameters from minimal amounts of data using simple data processing techniques and which is further capable of highly sensitive detection irrespective of environmental conditions.

In one aspect the present invention relates to a method for structural health monitoring using ultrasonic wave propagation through a system including one or more smart sensor elements comprising at least one material which exhibits fully reversible nonlinear elasticity FRNE .

Another aspect of the invention is directed to a method comprising operatively associating at least one smart sensor element with a structure propagating ultrasound through the smart sensor element receiving the ultrasound propagated through the smart sensor element and determining information relating to the structure from the attenuation and or the speed of the received ultrasound. The smart sensor element comprises at least one material which exhibits fully reversible nonlinear elasticity FRNE .

Another aspect of the invention is directed to a sensor system comprising at least one smart sensor an ultrasound emitter and a receiver for receiving ultrasound propagated through the sensor.

Another aspect of the invention is applicable if the structural component itself is made of a material that exhibits fully reversible nonlinear elasticity FRNE in which case it can be monitored directly using ultrasound.

In one aspect the invention is directed to a method for structural health monitoring SHM of materials using ultrasound and a smart sensor system. The method involves operatively associating at least one smart sensor element including at least one material which has a fully reversible nonlinear elasticity FRNE with a surface of a structure or structural element and using an ultrasonic transducer to propagate ultrasound through the smart sensor element . As the structure degrades over time structural stresses will be physically transferred to the sensor . By monitoring and recording changes in the ultrasound attenuation and or time of flight of ultrasound propagated through sensor by means of ultrasonic transducer it is possible to determine one or more of the presence of location of and severity of damage to the structure as well as generate an image of the structural damage by using a properly spaced array of sensors .

Sensor should be associated with the structural element in a manner whereby deformation of structural element causes a corresponding deformation of sensor . Thus it is often desirable to have a surface of sensor maintained in direct contact with a surface of structural element for this purpose. Any suitable means for maintaining sensor in association with structural element may be employed. In one embodiment sensor may be bonded to structural element . This bond is sufficiently secure so as to essentially prevent relative movement between a sensor and structural element to thereby provide excellent transmission of stress from structural element to sensor . In another embodiment sensor may be clamped to structural element .

One aspect of the SHM method and the sensor system of the present invention involves selecting an appropriate material for use in sensor . The material should have FRNE characteristics to enable sensor to record and reconstruct the applied stress and deformation of a structure over time. This deformation phenomenon may be partially attributed to the reversible formation and the disassociation of incipient kink bands IKB . Such materials are sometimes referred to as kinking nonlinear elastic materials or KNE materials.

The characterizing feature of KNE material deformation suitable for the sensor elements of the present invention is the formation of fully reversible rate independent closed hysteresis loops in stress strain curves delineates deformation process described in . These loops are strongly influenced by grain size with the energy dissipated per unit volume per cycle W being significantly larger in the coarse grained material. As the stresses become larger the hysteresis loops become larger until the structure fails. demonstrates a complex loading and unloading stress strain response of KNE solids which are stress memory materials capable of remembering the highest and or lowest points of these hysteresis loops or cycles.

KNE solids are further characterized by plastic anisotropy which typically occurs in materials having high c a ratio and or a complicated multi atom unit cells. Plastic anisotropy only allows for deformation by slip on one easy slip system which for hexagonal solids is basal slip. Dislocation motion on other slip systems is very difficult. The plastic anisotropy due to high c a ratio only allows for dislocations on one easy slip system. Any other kinds of dislocations are of extremely low probability and thus are insignificant.

In one embodiment sensor is constructed from at least one KNE solid that is stable over a temperature range of about 4 K to about 1000 K more preferably over a temperature range of about 77 K to about 1000 K and most preferably over a temperature range of about 123.15 K to about 973.15 K. In another embodiment the KNE solid is chemically stable inert and resistant to aggressive environmental and atmospheric conditions. More preferably the KNE solid is generally corrosion resistant and most preferably the KNE solid is specifically resistant to acidic basic salt containing and other corrosive atmospheres such as S containing ones.

Any material exhibiting FRNE behavior and have a c a ratio above about 1.2 preferably above about 1.5 can be used as a sensor material depending on the maximum possible stress temperature and ambient conditions that the material can withstand without undergoing significant alterations. Sensor may be configured in various shapes to increase the working range of stress and or strain according to the requirements of the structural element .

In an exemplary SHM method of the present invention at least one sensor containing a material exhibiting FRNE behavior is clamped to a portion of a structural element . Optionally the method includes a preliminary step of identifying a defect damage or stress within structural element or identifying a particular portion of structural element for which monitoring is desirable using any standard technique. Sensor can be employed in conjunction with a suitable system to detect and image stress and damage within structural element . Alternatively sensor may be used in a sensor system to detect inherent defects in structural element .

In one embodiment a conventional ultrasound sensor can be used to measure the inherent existing defects in structural element prior to installation of the sensing system of the present invention. After installation of the sensing system of the present invention the sensing system will measure how the existing inherent defects grow or change by detecting the changing stress state in the structural element .

As shown in sensor may be associated with a structural element by bonding or using a clamp or other suitable means such that structural deformation and stress can be effectively transmitted from structural element to sensor . The securing means should also enable secure long term retention of sensor on structural element . In a preferred embodiment hardened steel clamps can be employed for associating sensor with structural element for application in bridges or civil structures and the clamp can be a hard ceramic if the application temperature is high and or the atmosphere is corrosive.

Sensor may be calibrated by propagating an ultrasonic pulse through sensor to obtain an initial calibration of the state of sensor for use as a baseline to monitor the state of structural element . As structural element deforms is stressed or degrades over time the deformation and or stress will be physically transferred from structural element to sensor . Ultrasonic pulses may be periodically propagated through sensor to obtain measurements and monitor the condition of structural element relative to the baseline condition measured during calibration of sensor .

It is the intention that the ultrasonic pulses should pass solely through sensor and not penetrate structural element so as to obtain measurements of the attenuation and time of flight of the ultrasonic pulses as influenced by sensor only. A transducer optically coupled to sensor emits ultrasonic pulses and may be used to receive the ultrasonic pulses after they have passed through at least a portion of sensor . The collected data may be recorded by a data storage unit associated with a data processing unit . Data processing unit can generate an accurate image of deformation stress and or damage to structural element in real time. Data processing unit may also determine the location of deformation stress or damage based on time of flight data as well as determine the severity of structural damage using ultrasonic attenuation by sensor . In a preferred embodiment data may be transmitted wirelessly to data processing unit . Over time it is possible to generate a history of the changes in structural element .

The SHM method and sensor system of the present application are capable of providing significant information regarding structural damage stress and deformation to structural elements using a minimal amount of data by interpolating the deformation history between two consequent measurements. Furthermore the sensor system is capable of measuring a wide range of stresses and or deformation while requiring a relatively minor amount of data processing.

The SHM method and sensor system of the present invention function by capturing ultrasound attenuation which is used to determine the nonlinear elasticity or reversible dislocation motion within sensor . When sensor experiences stress or deformation transferred from structural element IKBs and or reversible dislocations are nucleated and interact with the ultrasound pulses causing attenuation and influencing time of flight of the pulses. Upon unloading the reversible dislocations or IKBs annihilate and the attenuation and time of flight influence is no longer observed. This reversible behavior of stress ultrasound attenuation and influence on time of flight may be used to determine the induced stress for every point of the hysteretic loop shown in . Furthermore the ultrasound attenuation may also be used to determine the maximum stress structural element experienced before failure and to deduce the stress strain deformation history of structural element .

The sensor system of one embodiment of the present invention may be useful for structural health monitoring of numerous structures particularly civil engineering structures such as bridges buildings and underwater structures structural elements of automobiles trains aircraft aerospace devices watercraft submersibles and other man made devices and machines and reactors storage structures etc. that degrade with time due to exposure to excipient factors such as earthquakes storms pollution vibration traffic and other environmental factors. The SHM methods and sensor systems of the present invention enable an accurate determination of the integrity of these structures relative to baseline integrity at any point in time and may enable engineers to determine when and where structural repair is necessary. The method of the present invention is equally applicable to historical as well as modem structures and may be used to maintain and preserve structural elements monitor structural damage over time and warn of impending structural failure. It is envisioned that the SHM method of the present invention may be particularly beneficial to the aerospace automobile and petrochemical industries.

An example of KNE solids are materials having MAX or MAX phases where M is an early transition metal A is an A group element X is carbon and or nitrogen and n 1 3. The MAX phases numbering over 50 are ternary carbides and nitrides. The crystal structure of MAX phases comprise hexagonal nets of A atoms separated by three nearly close packed M layers that accommodate X atoms in the octahedral sites between them. Typically suitable materials are solid crystalline materials with a crystal lattice structure. Materials having high temperature capabilities such TiAlC are particularly useful since such materials will be better able to withstand significant atmospheric temperature variations in use.

In another embodiment the actual structural component is fabricated with a material exhibiting fully reversible nonlinear elasticity. In which case the entire part can be used to monitor its health and all that required is to propagate ultrasound through the entire or parts of the structure and measuring its attenuation.

Of the MAX phase compounds TiSiCand TiAlC are some of the most promising lightweight candidate materials for use in sensing elements suitable for high temperature structural monitoring and other applications. Despite having a density of about 4.5 gm cm TiSiCand TiAlC have a stiffness about three times as high as titanium but are as readily machinable as titanium. With a Vickers hardness of approximately 3 GPa they are relatively soft unusually resistant to thermal shock and highly damage tolerant. Unlike most brittle solids edge cracks do not emanate from the corners of hardness indentations. Rather intensive kinking buckling and bending of individual grains take place in the vicinity of the indentations resulting in pseudo plastic behavior over a wide range of temperature.

Polycrystalline TiSiCare further capable of being cyclically loaded in compression at room temperature to stresses up to 1 GPa and fully recover on the removal of the load while dissipating about 25 0.7 MJm of the mechanical energy as shown in . These loss factors are higher than most woods and comparable to polypropylene and nylon. depicts the typical behavioral plot of a structure composed of coarse grained TiSiC. The stress strain curve delineates a fully reversible rate independent closed hysteresis loop characteristic of KNE solids. Furthermore TiAlC graphite hexagonal boron nitride most of the hexagonal metals and mica have similar deformation behavior which can be attributed to the reversible formation of dislocations and can be used to fabricate sensing elements in accordance with the present invention if the particular material is suitable for the stress temperature and atmospheric conditions to which it will be subjected in use.

The behavior of the KNE materials allows use of a calibration curve similar to that shown in to correlate ultrasound attenuation by the KNE materials with the stress exerted on sensor . In addition since KNE materials exhibit reversible deformation but provide a different response as a result of such reversible deformation additional information such as the prior maximum deformation and deformation history can be obtained from the ultrasound attenuation data obtained from the KNE materials. This can be seen in for example where upon reduction of the applied stress on the KNE material the attenuation followed a different curve downward arrow than was followed during application of the applied stress upward arrow to the KNE material.

This behavior of the KNE material also permits imaging of the deformation stress or damage to a structural element since the information required for such imaging can be obtained by comparison to a calibration curve and or via application of simple algorithms to correlate ultrasound attenuation and or time of flight with specific structural stress and or damage in the structural element.

References cited herein are listed below and the disclosures of the listed references are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety 

