---

title: Combinations of phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor compounds and chemotherapeutic agents, and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08247397&OS=08247397&RS=08247397
owner: F. Hoffman-La Roche AG
number: 08247397
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20080910
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 971 773 filed on 12 Sep. 2007 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to pharmaceutical combinations of compounds with activity against hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer and which include compounds that inhibit PI3 kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Phosphatidylinositol is one of a number of phospholipids found in cell membranes and which participate in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem. 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 . Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of an inositol ring Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and PDK1 phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

The PI3 kinase family comprises at least 15 different enzymes sub classified by structural homology and are divided into 3 classes based on sequence homology and the product formed by enzyme catalysis. The class I PI3 kinases are composed of 2 subunits a 110 kd catalytic subunit and an 85 kd regulatory subunit. The regulatory subunits contain SH2 domains and bind to tyrosine residues phosphorylated by growth factor receptors with a tyrosine kinase activity or oncogene products thereby inducing the PI3K activity of the p110 catalytic subunit which phosphorylates its lipid substrate. Class I PI3 kinases are involved in important signal transduction events downstream of cytokines integrins growth factors and immunoreceptors which suggests that control of this pathway may lead to important therapeutic effects such as modulating cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. Class I PI3Ks can phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4 5 biphosphate PIP2 to produce phosphatidylinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphatidylinositol 3 4 biphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate respectively. Class II PI3Ks phosphorylate PI and phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate. Class III PI3Ks can only phosphorylate PI. The main PI3 kinase isoform in cancer is the Class I PI3 kinase p110 . U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 492 U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 824 U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 327 . Other isoforms are implicated in cardiovascular and immune inflammatory disease Workman P 2004 Biochem Soc Trans 32 393 396 Patel et al 2004 Proc. Am. Assoc. of Cancer Res. Abstract LB 247 95th Annual Meeting March 27 31 Orlando Fla. USA Ahmadi K and Waterfield M D 2004 Phosphoinositide 3 Kinase Function and Mechanisms Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry Lennarz W J Lane M D eds Elsevier Academic Press and oncogene mutations in PI3 kinase Samuels et al 2004 Science 304 554 . Oncogenic mutations of p110 alpha have been found at a significant frequency in colon breast brain liver ovarian gastric lung and head and neck solid tumors. PTEN abnormalities are found in glioblastoma melanoma prostate endometrial ovarian breast lung head and neck hepatocellular and thyroid cancers.

The initial purification and molecular cloning of PI3 kinase revealed that it was a heterodimer consisting of p85 and p110 subunits Otsu et al 1991 Cell 65 91 104 Hiles et al 1992 Cell 70 419 29 . Since then four distinct Class I PI3Ks have been identified designated PI3K alpha beta delta and gamma each consisting of a distinct 110 kDa catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit. More specifically three of the catalytic subunits i.e. p110 alpha p110 beta and p110 delta each interact with the same regulatory subunit p85 whereas p110 gamma interacts with a distinct regulatory subunit p101. The patterns of expression of each of these PI3Ks in human cells and tissues are also distinct. In each of the PI3K alpha beta and delta subtypes the p85 subunit acts to localize PI3 kinase to the plasma membrane by the interaction of its SH2 domain with phosphorylated tyrosine residues present in an appropriate sequence context in target proteins Rameh et al 1995 Cell 83 821 30 Volinia et al 1992 Oncogene 7 789 93 .

The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such agents would be expected to inhibit proliferation reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount resistance to cytotoxic agents in cancer cells. PI3 kinase inhibitors have been reported Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 . Wortmannin analogs have PI3 kinase activity in mammals U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 WO 97 15658 .

Thienopyrimidine compounds of Formulas I and II have p110 alpha binding PI3 kinase inhibitory activity and inhibit the growth of cancer cells WO 2006 046031 US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 WO 2008 070740 WO 2008 073785.

Formula I compound GDC 0941 Genentech Inc. is a selective orally bioavailable inhibitor of PI3K with promising pharmacokinetic and pharmaceutical properties Belvin et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 15 Abstract 4004 Folkes et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 146 Friedman et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 110 .

Combinations of anti cancer pharmaceutical therapeutics administered simultaneously or sequentially in a dosing regimen are now common in cancer treatment. Successful combination therapy provides improved and even synergistic effect over mono therapy i.e. pharmaceutical treatment limited to one drug. Combination therapy for the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer has been studied including antitumor activity of erlotinib in combination with capecitabine in human tumor xenograft models Ouchi et al 2006 Cancer Chemother. Pharmacol. 57 693 702 and erlotinib in combination gemcitabine and cisplatin in non small cell lung cancer NSCLC tumor xenograft models Higgins et al 2004 Anti Cancer Drugs 15 503 512 . Preclinical research has been the basis for prediction of clinical stage synergy of anti cancer pharmaceutical therapeutic combinations including capecitabine and taxanes for the treatment of breast cancer Sawada et al 1998 Clin. Cancer Res. 4 1013 1019 . Certain doses and schedules of combination therapy of capecitabine and taxane can improve safety without compromising efficacy O Shaughnessy et al 2006 Clin. Breast Cancer April 7 1 42 50 . Synergistic effects of anti fungal combinations in vitro have been correlated with clinical stage synergy Steinbach et al 2003 Clin. Inf. Dis. October 1 37 Suppl 3 S188 224 .

The invention relates generally to thienopyrimidine compounds of Formulas I and II with anti cancer activity and more specifically with PI3 kinase inhibitory activity administered in combination with chemotherapeutic agents to inhibit the growth of cancer cells. Certain combinations of Formula I and II compounds with chemotherapeutic agents show synergistic effects in inhibiting the growth of cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. The combinations and methods of the invention may be useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The compositions may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

In one aspect the invention includes a method for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering a therapeutic combination as a combined formulation or alternation to a mammal wherein the therapeutic combination comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I or II and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib.

The invention also relates to methods of using the compositions for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

An aspect of the invention provides therapeutic combinations comprising 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine US 2008 0076768 WO 2006 046031 also known as GDC 0941 Genentech Inc. and having Formula Ia and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib.

An aspect of the invention provides therapeutic combinations comprising S 1 4 2 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one WO 2008 070740 having Formula Ib and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib.

An aspect of the invention provides therapeutic combinations comprising 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine US 2008 0076758 WO 2006 046031 having Formula IIa and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib.

Formula Ia Ib and IIa compounds are orally bioavailable and have single agent anti tumor activity in multiple human cancer models.

Formula I and II compounds include all stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Certain Formula I and II compounds are potent inhibitors of PI3K with drug like physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties. Certain Formula I and II compounds exhibit selectivity for class Ia PI3Ks over class Ib in particular for the P110 alpha subtype.

Pharmaceutical compositions and therapeutic combinations of the invention comprise a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of treating a hyperproliferative disease or disorder modulated by PI3 kinases comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment effective amounts of a Formula I or II compound and a chemotherapeutic agent. The Formula I or II compound and the chemotherapeutic agent may be co formulated for administration in a combination as a pharmaceutical composition or they may be administered separately in alternation sequentially as a therapeutic combination.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of treating a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment effective amounts of the Formula I or II compound and a chemotherapeutic agent.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of using a pharmaceutical composition of the invention to treat a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a pharmaceutical composition of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention includes articles of manufacture or kits comprising a Formula I or II compound a chemotherapeutic agent a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Another aspect of the invention is a product comprising a compound having Formula I or II and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib as a combined preparation for separate simultaneous or sequential use in the treatment of a hyperproliferative disorder.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for determining compounds to be used in combination for the treatment of cancer comprising a administering a therapeutic combination of a compound having Formula I or II and a chemotherapeutic agent to HER2 amplified breast cancer cells in laminin rich reconstituted basement membrane media wherein the chemotherapeutic agent targets binds to or modulates a HER2 receptor and b measuring inhibition of cellular proliferation wherein nonmalignant and malignant mammary cells are discriminated by one or more phenotypic difference selected from cell viability and acinar morphogenesis.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for determining compounds to be used in combination for the treatment of cancer comprising a administering a therapeutic combination of claim to an in vitro tumor cell line with a K ras mutation and b measuring a synergistic or non synergistic effect.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. The term heterocycle includes heterocycloalkoxy. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked nitrogen nitrogen linked or oxygen oxygen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

 Carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl refers to a five or six membered unsubstituted or substituted monocyclic heteroaryl radical which contains 1 2 3 or 4 ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S. The carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl is attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas I and II at any carbon atom of the monocyclic heteroaryl Rgroup. Carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl. Carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur differ only by their aromatic character and have two rings fused together i.e. share a common bond. Carbon linked fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals are attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas I and II at any carbon atom of the fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl group Rgroup. Carbon linked fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine. Fused bicyclic heterocycles and fused bicyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The substituent groups that alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with include F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo R C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Coptionally substituted alkyl C Coptionally substituted alkenyl C Coptionally substituted alkynyl C Coptionally substituted carbocyclyl C Coptionally substituted heterocyclyl C Coptionally substituted aryl C Coptionally substituted heteroaryl CRR NRC O CRR NRR and CRR NRR

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the growth development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a biological large molecule or chemical small molecule compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors proteins antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and non targeted conventional chemotherapy.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech pertuzumab OMNITARG rhuMab 2C4 Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib TYKERB Glaxo SmithKline .

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 MEK inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 MEK inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis ABT 869 multi targeted inhibitor of VEGF and PDGF family receptor tyrosine kinases Abbott Laboratories and Genentech ABT 263 Bcl 2 Bcl xL inhibitor Abbott Laboratories and Genentech PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson capecitabine XELODA Roche ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CBI TMI eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

The term mammal includes but is not limited to humans mice rats guinea pigs monkeys dogs cats horses cows pigs and sheep and poultry.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like. Acids which are generally considered suitable for the formation of pharmaceutically useful or acceptable salts from basic pharmaceutical compounds are discussed for example by P. Stahl et al Camille G. eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts. Properties Selection and Use. 2002 Zurich Wiley VCH S. Berge et al Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 1977 66 1 1 19 P. Gould International J. of Pharmaceutics 1986 33 201 217 Anderson et al The Practice of Medicinal Chemistry 1996 Academic Press New York Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18ed. 1995 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. and in The Orange Book Food Drug Administration Washington D.C. on their website . These disclosures are incorporated herein by reference thereto.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to a physical association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. The compounds of the invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water. This physical association involves varying degrees of ionic and covalent bonding including hydrogen bonding. In certain instances the solvate will be capable of isolation for example when one or more solvent molecules are incorporated in the crystal lattice of the crystalline solid. Preparation of solvates is generally known for example M. Caira et al J. Pharmaceutical Sci. 93 3 601 611 2004 . Similar preparations of solvates hemisolvate hydrates and the like are described by E. C. van Tonder et al AAPS PharmSciTech. 5 1 article 12 2004 and A. L. Bingham et al Chem. Commun. 603 604 2001 . A typical non limiting process involves dissolving the inventive compound in desired amounts of the desired solvent organic or water or mixtures thereof at a higher than ambient temperature and cooling the solution at a rate sufficient to form crystals which are then isolated by standard methods. Analytical techniques such as for example I.R. spectroscopy show the presence of the solvent or water in the crystals as a solvate or hydrate .

The term synergistic as used herein refers to a therapeutic combination which is more effective than the additive effects of the two or more single agents. A determination of a synergistic interaction between a Formula I or II compound and one or more chemotherapeutic agent may be based on the results obtained from the assays described herein. The results of these assays are analyzed using the Chou and Talalay combination method and Dose Effect Analysis with CalcuSyn software in order to obtain a Combination Index Chou and Talalay 1984 Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 55 . The combinations provided by this invention have been evaluated in several assay systems and the data can be analyzed utilizing a standard program for quantifying synergism additivism and antagonism among anticancer agents. The program preferably utilized is that described by Chou and Talalay in New Avenues in Developmental Cancer Chemotherapy Academic Press 1987 Chapter 2. Combination Index values less than 0.8 indicates synergy values greater than 1.2 indicate antagonism and values between 0.8 to 1.2 indicate additive effects. The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

The present invention includes therapeutic combinations including Formula I and II compounds which have the structures 

Ris selected from H F Cl Br I CN CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C OR RR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR SR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Ris selected from H F Cl Br I CN CF NO C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR NRC O CRR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Ris a carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl a carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or a carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl where the monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I CN NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR NRS O R C O OR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Calkyl OR 

R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from oxo CH OR NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R NRS O R C Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated C Ccarbocyclic ring 

where said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo R C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I and II compounds include wherein Ris CRR NRRwhere m is 1 and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an optionally substituted C Cheterocyclic ring. The C Cheterocyclic ring may be piperazinyl optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R NRS O R C Y NRR and C Calkyl.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I and II compounds include wherein Ris H CH C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. The C Cheteroaryl may be a monocyclic heteroaryl group selected from 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I and II compounds include wherein Ris a bicyclic heteroaryl group selected from 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine.

An exemplary Formula I compound is 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine having Formula Ia 

Another exemplary Formula I compound is S 1 4 2 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one having Formula Ib 

An exemplary Formula II compound is 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine having Formula IIa 

The Formula I and II compounds may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts and including WO 2006 046031. Starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser Reagents for Organic Synthesis v. 1 19 Wiley N.Y. 1967 1999 ed. or Beilsteins Handbuch der organischen Chemie 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

Formula I and II compound may be prepared using procedures to prepare other thiophenes and pyrimidines U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 383 U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 187 777 U.S. Pat. No. 3 763 156 U.S. Pat. No. 3 661 908 U.S. Pat. No. 3 475 429 U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 305 US 2003 220365 GB 1393161 WO 93 13664 and other heterocycles which are described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry Editors Katritzky and Rees Pergamon Press 1984.

Formula I and II compounds may be converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt and a salt may be converted into the free base compound by conventional methods. Formula I and II compounds may be therapeutically effective as a free base or as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt depending on the desired properties such as solubility dissolution hygroscopic nature and pharmacokinetics. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydroiodic acid sulphuric acid nitric acid and phosphoric acid and organic acids such as methanesulfonic acid benzenesulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid oxalic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid maleic acid lactic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid ethanesulfonic acid aspartic acid and glutamic acid. The salt may be a mesylate a hydrochloride a phosphate a benzenesulfonate or a sulfate. Salts may be mono salts or bis salts. For example the mesylate salt may be the mono mesylate or the bis mesylate.

Protection of functional groups e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary in preparing Formula I and II compounds. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 7 show general methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of the thienopyrimidine intermediates 55 and 56 from 2 carboxyester 3 amino thiophene and 2 amino 3 carboxy ester thiophene reagents respectively 51 and 52 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R R and Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 2 shows a general method for selectively displacing a 4 halide from bis halo thienopyrimidine intermediates 57 and 58 with morpholine under basic conditions in an organic solvent to prepare 2 halo 4 morpholino thienopyrimidine compounds 59 and 60 respectively wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 3 shows a general method for derivatizing the 6 position of 2 halo 4 morpholino 6 hydrogen thienopyrimidine compounds 61 and 62 where Ris H. Treating 61 or 62 with a lithiating reagent to remove the 6 position proton followed by adding an acylating reagent RC O Z where Z is a leaving group such as halide NHS ester carboxylate or dialkylamino gives 2 halo 4 morpholino 6 acyl thienopyrimidine compounds 63 and 64 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. An example of RC O Z to prepare 6 formyl compounds R H is N N dimethylformamide DMF .

Scheme 4 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 2 halo pyrimidine intermediate 65 and 66 with a monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic heterocyclyl or fused bicyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 67 to prepare the 2 substituted Hy 4 morpholino thienopyrimidine compounds 68 and 69 of Formulas I and II wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 Suzuki A. in Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions Diederich F. Stang P. J. Eds. VCH Weinheim Del. 1998 pp 49 97. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Scheme 5 shows a general method for the synthesis of alkynes 71 which can be used to prepare alkynylated derivatives of compounds 72 and 73. Propargylic amines 71 may be prepared by reaction of propargyl bromide 70 with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring in the presence of an appropriate base CsCOor the like . For reviews of alkynyl amines and related syntheses see Booker Milburn K. I. 1995 2 1039 1074 and Viehe H. G. 1967 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Eng. 6 9 767 778. Alkynes 71 may subsequently be reacted with intermediates 72 X bromo or iodo or 73 via Sonogashira coupling to provide compounds 74 and 75 respectively wherein Rand Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 6 shows a general method for the synthesis of alkynes 77 which can be used to prepare alkynylated derivatives of compounds 72 and 73. Gem dialkyl propargylic amines 77 may be prepared using methods described by Zaragoza et al 2004 J. Med. Chem. 47 2833. According to Scheme 6 gem dialkyl chloride 76 Rand Rare independently methyl ethyl or other alkyl group can be reacted with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring in the presence of CuCl and an appropriate base e.g. TEA or the like to provide the alkyne 77. Alkyne 77 can be reacted with intermediates 72 or 73 via Sonogashira coupling to provide compounds 78 and 79 respectively wherein Rand Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 7 shows a general scheme for the synthesis of alkynes 81 which can be used to prepare alkynylated derivatives of compounds 72 and 73. But 3 yn 1 amines 81 wherein Rand Rare independently H alkyl aryl heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring can be prepared from reaction of alkynes 80 LG tosylate or other leaving group with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring using the protocol described by Olomucki M. et al 1960 Ann. Chim. 5 845. Alkynes 81 can subsequently be reacted with intermediates 72 or 73 via Sonogashira coupling according to the descriptions provided for Schemes 5 and 6 to provide compounds 82 and 83 respectively wherein Rand Rare as defined for Formula I and II compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a thienopyrimidine compound of Formula I or II may be prepared using conventional techniques. Typically the process comprises treating the thienopyrimidine of Formula I as defined above with a suitable acid in a suitable solvent.

In the process of the invention as defined above both the amination step and the Pd mediated cross coupling step take place under conventional conditions. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh . The reducing agent is typically a borohydride such as NaBH OAc NaBHor NaCNBH.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

Certain chemotherapeutic agents have demonstrated surprising and unexpected properties in combination with Formula I or II compounds in inhibiting cellular proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Such chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

Erlotinib TARCEVA OSI 774 Genentech is used to treat non small cell lung cancer NSCLC lung cancer pancreatic cancer and several other types of cancer by specifically targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR tyrosine kinase U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 498 U.S. Pat. No. 6 900 221 Moyer et al 1997 Cancer Res. 57 4838 Pollack et al 1999 J. Pharmcol. Exp. Ther. 291 739 Perez Soler et al 2004 J. Clin. Oncol. 22 3238 Kim et al 2002 Curr. Opin. Invest. Drugs 3 1385 1395 Blackhall et al 2005 Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 6 995 1002 . Erlotinib is named as N 3 ethynylphenyl 6 7 bis methoxymethoxy quinazolin 4 amine CAS Reg. No. 183321 74 6 and has the structure 

Docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis is used to treat breast ovarian and NSCLC cancers U.S. Pat. No. 4 814 470 U.S. Pat. No. 5 438 072 U.S. Pat. No. 5 698 582 U.S. Pat. No. 5 714 512 U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 561 Mangatal et al 1989 Tetrahedron 45 4177 Ringel et al 1991 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 83 288 Bissery et al 1991 Cancer Res. 51 4845 Herbst et al 2003 Cancer Treat. Rev. 29 407 415 Davies et al 2003 Expert. Opin. Pharmacother. 4 553 565 . Docetaxel is named as 2R 3S N carboxy 3 phenylisoserine N tert butyl ester 13 ester with 5 20 epoxy 1 2 4 7 10 13 hexahydroxytax 11 en 9 one 4 acetate 2 benzoate trihydrate U.S. Pat. No. 4 814 470 EP 253738 CAS Reg. No. 114977 28 5 and has the structure 

5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS Reg. No. 51 21 8 is a thymidylate synthase inhibitor and has been used for decades in the treatment of cancer including colorectal and pancreatic cancer U.S. Pat. No. 2 802 005 U.S. Pat. No. 2 885 396 Duschinsky et al 1957 J. Am. chem. Soc. 79 4559 Hansen R. M. 1991 Cancer Invest. 9 637 642 . 5 FU is named as 5 fluoro 1H pyrimidine 2 4 dione and has the structure 

Gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly CAS Reg. No. 95058 81 4 is a nucleoside analog which blocks DNA replication is used to treat various carcinomas including pancreatic breast NSCLC and lymphomas U.S. Pat. No. 4 808 614 U.S. Pat. No. 5 464 826 Hertel et al 1988 J. Org. Chem. 53 2406 Hertel et al 1990 Cancer Res. 50 4417 Lund et al 1993 Cancer Treat. Rev. 19 45 55 . Gemcitabine is named as 4 amino 1 3 3 difluoro 4 hydroxy 5 hydroxymethyl tetrahydrofuran 2 yl 1H pyrimidin 2 one and has the structure 

PD 0325901 CAS RN 391210 10 9 Pfizer is a second generation non ATP competitive allosteric MEK inhibitor for the potential oral tablet treatment of cancer U.S. Pat. No. 6 960 614 U.S. Pat. No. 6 972 298 US 2004 147478 US 2005 085550 . Phase II clinical trials have been conducted for the potential treatment of breast tumors colon tumors and melanoma. PD 0325901 is named as R N 2 3 dihydroxypropoxy 3 4 difluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino benzamide and has the structure 

Cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS Reg. No. 15663 27 1 is a platinum based chemotherapy drug used to treat various types of cancers including sarcomas some carcinomas e.g. small cell lung cancer and ovarian cancer lymphomas and germ cell tumors Ochs et al 1978 Cancer Treat. Rep. 62 239 Pinedo et al 1978 Eur. J. Cancer 14 1149 Cisplatin Current Status and New Developments A. W. Prestayko et al. Eds. Academic Press New York 1980 . Cisplatin CDDP was the first member of its class which now also includes carboplatin and oxaliplatin.

Carboplatin CAS Reg. No. 41575 94 4 is a chemotherapeutic drug used against ovarian carcinoma lung head and neck cancers U.S. Pat. No. 4 140 707 Calvert et al 1982 Cancer Chemother. Pharmacol. 9 140 Harland et al 1984 Cancer Res. 44 1693 . Carboplatin is named as azanide cyclobutane 1 1 dicarboxylic acid platinum and has the structure 

Paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. CAS Reg. No. 33069 62 4 is isolated the compound from the bark of the Pacific yew tree and used to treat lung ovarian breast cancer and advanced forms of Kaposi s sarcoma Wani et al 1971 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 93 2325 Mekhail et al 2002 Expert. Opin. Pharmacother. 3 755 766 . Paclitaxel is named as benzoylamino hydroxy 6 12b bis acetyloxy 12 benzoyloxy 2a 3 4 4a 5 6 9 10 11 12 12a 12b dodecahydro 4 11 dihydroxy 4a 8 13 13 tetramethyl 5 oxo 7 11 methano 1H cyclodeca 3 4 benz 1 2 b oxet 9 ylester 2aR 2a 4 4a 6 9 R S 11 12 12a 2b benzenepropanoic acid and has the structure 

Bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against VEGF vascular endothelial growth factor U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 297 Presta et al 1997 Cancer Res. 57 4593 4599 . It is used in the treatment of cancer where it inhibits tumor growth by blocking the formation of new blood vessels. Bevacizumab was the first clinically available angiogenesis inhibitor in the United States approved by the FDA in 2004 for use in combination with standard chemotherapy in the treatment of metastatic colon cancer and most forms of metastatic non small cell lung cancer. Several late stage clinical studies are underway to determine its safety and effectiveness for patients with adjuvant non metastatic colon cancer metastatic breast cancer metastatic renal cell carcinoma metastatic glioblastoma multiforme metastatic ovarian cancer metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer and metastatic or unresectable locally advanced pancreatic cancer Ferrara et al 2004 Nat. Rev. Drug Disc. 3 391 400 .

Bevacizumab includes mutated human IgG1 framework regions and antigen binding complementarity determining regions from the murine anti hVEGF monoclonal antibody A.4.6.1 that blocks binding of human VEGF to its receptors. Bevacizumab has a molecular mass of about 149 000 daltons and is glycosylated. Bevacizumab and other humanized anti VEGF antibodies are further described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 884 879. Additional anti VEGF antibodies include the G6 or B20 series antibodies e.g. G6 31 B20 4.1 WO 2005 012359 WO 2005 044853 U.S. Pat. No. 7 060 269 U.S. Pat. No. 6 582 959 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 020 U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 297 WO 98 45332 WO 96 30046 WO 94 10202 EP 0666868B1 US 2006 009360 US 2005 0186208 US 2003 0206899 US 2003 0190317 US 2003 0203409 20050112126 Popkov et al 2004 Journal of Immunological Methods 288 149 164. A B20 series antibody is an anti VEGF antibody that is derived from a sequence of the B20 antibody or a B20 derived antibody according to any one of FIGS. 27 29 of WO 2005 012359 the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment the B20 series antibody binds to a functional epitope on human VEGF comprising residues F17 M18 D19 Y21 Y25 Q89 I91 K101 E103 and C104. Other anti VEGF antibodies include those that bind to a functional epitope on human VEGF comprising residues F17 M18 D19 Y21 Y25 Q89 I91 K101 E103 and C104 or alternatively comprising residues F17 Y21 Q22 Y25 D63 I83 and Q89.

Trastuzumab HERCEPTIN huMAb4D5 8 rhuMAb HER2 Genentech is a recombinant DNA derived humanized IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody version of the murine HER2 antibody which selectively binds with high affinity in a cell based assay Kd 5 nM to the extracellular domain of the human epidermal growth factor receptor2 protein HER2 ErbB2 U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 297 U.S. Pat. No. 6 407 213 U.S. Pat. No. 6 639 055 Coussens L et al 1985 Science 230 1132 9 Slamon D J et al 1989 Science 244 707 12 . Trastuzumab contains human framework regions with the complementarity determining regions of a murine antibody 4D5 that binds to HER2. Trastuzumab binds to the HER2 antigen and thus inhibits the growth of cancerous cells. Trastuzumab has been shown in both in vitro assays and in animals to inhibit the proliferation of human tumor cells that overexpress HER2 Hudziak R M et al 1989 Mol Cell Biol 9 1165 72 Lewis G D et al 1993 Cancer Immunol Immunother 37 255 63 Baselga J et al 1998 Cancer Res. 58 2825 2831 . Trastuzumab is a mediator of antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC Hotaling T E et al 1996 abstract . Proc. Annual Meeting Am Assoc Cancer Res 37 471 Pegram M D et al 1997 abstract . Proc Am Assoc Cancer Res 38 602 Sliwkowski et al 1999 Seminars in Oncology 26 4 Suppl 12 60 70 Yarden Y. and Sliwkowski M. 2001 Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology Macmillan Magazines Ltd. Vol. 2 127 137 . HERCEPTIN was approved in 1998 for the treatment of patients with ErbB2 overexpressing metastatic breast cancers Baselga et al 1996 J. Clin. Oncol. 14 737 744 . The FDA approved HERCEPTIN in 2006 as part of a treatment regimen containing doxorubicin cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel for the adjuvant treatment of patients with HER2 positive node positive breast cancer. There is a significant clinical need for developing further HER2 directed cancer therapies for those patients with HER2 overexpressing tumors or other diseases associated with HER2 expression that do not respond or respond poorly to HERCEPTIN treatment.

Pertuzumab OMNITARG rhuMab 2C4 Genentech is a clinical stage humanized antibody and the first in a new class of agents known as HER dimerization inhibitors HDIs which block the ability of the HER2 receptor to collaborate with other HER receptor family members i.e. HER1 EGFR HER3 and HER4 U.S. Pat. No. 6 949 245 Agus et al 2002 Cancer Cell 2 127 37 Jackson et al 2004 Cancer Res 64 2601 9 Takai et al 2005 Cancer 104 2701 8 . In cancer cells interfering with HER2 s ability to collaborate with other HER family receptors blocks cell signaling and may ultimately lead to cancer cell growth inhibition and death of the cancer cell. HDIs because of their unique mode of action have the potential to work in a wide variety of tumors including those that do not overexpress HER2 Mullen et al 2007 Molecular Cancer Therapeutics 6 93 100 .

Temozolomide CAS Reg. No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough is a oral chemotherapy drug approved by the FDA for the treatment of anaplastic astrocytoma and has been studied for other brain tumor types such as glioblastoma multiforme U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 291 Stevens et al 1984 J. Med. Chem. 27 196 Newlands et al 1997 Cancer Treat. Rev. 23 35 61 Danson et al 2001 Expert Rev. Anticancer Ther. 1 13 19 . Temozolomide is named as 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide or 3 4 dihydro 3 methyl 4 oxoimidazo 5 1 d as tetrazine 8 carboxamide U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 291 CAS No. 85622 93 1 and has the structure 

Tamoxifen NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX is an orally active selective estrogen receptor modulator SERM which is used in the treatment of breast cancer and is currently the world s largest selling drug for this indication. Tamoxifen Nolvadex was first approved by the FDA ICI Pharmaceuticals now AstraZeneca in 1977 for treatment of metastatic breast cancer Jordan V C 2006 Br J Pharmacol 147 Suppl 1 S269 76 . Tamoxifen is currently used for the treatment of both early and advanced estrogen receptor ER positive breast cancer in pre and post menopausal women Jordan V C 1993 Br J Pharmacol 110 2 507 17 . It is also approved by the FDA for the prevention of breast cancer in women at high risk of developing the disease and for the reduction of contralateral in the opposite breast breast cancer. Tamoxifen is named as Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine CAS Reg. No. 10540 29 1 and has the structure 

Doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN hydroxyldaunorubicin is a DNA interacting drug widely used in chemotherapy since the 1960s. It is an anthracycline antibiotic and structurally related to daunomycin which also intercalates DNA. Doxorubicin is commonly used in the treatment of a wide range of cancers. Doxorubicin is named as 8S 10S 10 4 amino 5 hydroxy 6 methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy 6 8 11 trihydroxy 8 2 hydroxyacetyl 1 methoxy 7 8 9 10 tetrahydrotetracene 5 12 dione CAS Reg. No. 23214 92 8 and has the structure 

Akti 1 2 is a cell permeable quinoxaline compound that potently and selectively inhibits Akt1 Akt2 activity IC 58 nM 210 nM and 2.12 M for Akt1 Akt2 and Akt3 respectively in in vitro kinase assays Barnett et al. 2005 Biochem. J. 385 399 DeFeo Jones et al 2005 Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 271 Zhao et al 2005 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 15 905 Lindsley et al 2005 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 15 761 US 2006 142178 US 2005 159422 US 2004 102360 . The inhibition appears to be pleckstrin homology PH domain dependent. It does not exhibit any inhibitory effect against PH domain lacking Akts or other closely related AGC family kinases PKA PKC and SGK even at concentrations as high as 50 M. Akti 1 2 overcomes Akt1 Akt2 mediated resistance to chemotherapeutics in tumor cells and is shown to block basal and stimulated phosphorylation activation of Akt1 Akt2 both in cultured cells in vitro and in mice in vivo. Akti 1 2 EMD Biosciences Product No. 124018 is named as 1 3 dihydro 1 1 4 6 phenyl 1H imidazo 4 5 g quinoxalin 7 yl phenyl methyl 4 piperidinyl 2H benzimidazol 2 one and has the structure 

Rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE is an immunosuppressant drug used to prevent rejection in organ transplantation and is especially useful in kidney transplants. Rapamycin is a macrolide antibiotic mycin first discovered as a product of the bacterium in a soil sample from an island called Rapa Nui better known as Easter Island Pritchard D I 2005 . Drug Discovery Today 10 10 688 691 . Rapamycin inhibits the response to interleukin 2 IL 2 and thereby blocks activation of T and B cells. The mode of action of rapamycin is to bind the cytosolic protein FK binding protein 12 FKBP12 . The rapamycin FKBP12 complex inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR pathway through directly binding the mTOR Complex1 mTORC1 . mTOR is also called FRAP FKBP rapamycin associated protein or RAFT rapamycin and FKBP target . Rapamycin is named as 3S 6R 7E 9R 10R 12R 14S 15E 17E 19E 21S 23S 26R 27R 34aS 9 10 12 13 14 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 32 33 34 34a hexadecahydro 9 27 dihydroxy 3 1R 2 1S 3R 4R 4 hydroxy 3 methoxycyclohexyl 1 methylethyl 10 21 dimethoxy 6 8 12 14 20 26 hexamethyl 23 27 epoxy 3H pyrido 2 1 c 1 4 oxaazacyclohentriacontine 1 5 11 28 29 4H 6H 31H pentone CAS Reg. No. 53123 88 9 and has the structure 

Lapatinib TYKERB GW572016 Glaxo SmithKline has been approved for use in combination with capecitabine XELODA Roche for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors over express HER2 ErbB2 and who have received prior therapy including an anthracycline a taxane and trastuzumab. Lapatinib is an ATP competitive epidermal growth factor EGFR and HER2 neu ErbB 2 dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 256 U.S. Pat. No. 6 713 485 U.S. Pat. No. 7 109 333 U.S. Pat. No. 6 933 299 U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 147 U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 466 U.S. Pat. No. 7 141 576 which inhibits receptor autophosphorylation and activation by binding to the ATP binding pocket of the EGFR HER2 protein kinase domain. Lapatinib is named as N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorobenzyloxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonyl ethylamino methyl furan 2 yl quinazolin 4 amine and has the structure 

Certain Formula I and II compounds bind specifically to PI3 kinase isoforms and inhibit the proliferation of tumor cells WO 2006 046031 US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 WO 2008 070740 WO 2008 073785 .

Certain Formula Ia and IIa compounds bind the p110 isoform at IC50 less than 1 micromole and show single agent in vivo tumor growth inhibition in mouse xenograft models. Accordingly Formula I and II compounds may be used to treat a disease or disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behavior as single agents or in combination therapy with one or more chemotherapeutic agents.

Certain exemplary Formula I and II compounds described herein were prepared characterized and assayed for their PI3K binding activity Example 13 and in vitro activity against tumor cells Example 14 . The range of PI3K binding activities IC50 was less than 1 nM one nanomolar to about 10 M ten micromolar . Certain exemplary Formula I and II compounds have PI3K binding activity ICvalues less than 10 nM. Certain Formula I and II compounds have tumor cell based activity ECvalues less than 100 nM.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of Formula I and II exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a Formula I or II compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example 14 . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation . Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of absorption distribution metabolism and excretion ADME were measured for certain exemplary compounds by assays including Caco 2 Permeability Hepatocyte Clearance Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Cytochrome P450 Induction Plasma Protein Binding and hERG channel blockage.

The in vitro potency of the combinations of Formula I or II compounds with chemotherapeutic agents was measured by the cell proliferation assay of Example 14 the CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of Coleoptera luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

The anti proliferative effects of Formula I and II exemplary compounds and combinations with chemotherapeutic agents were measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay Example 14 against the tumor cell lines in B and C. ECvalues were established for the tested compounds and combinations. The range of in vitro cell potency activities was about 100 nM to about 10 M.

The individual measured EC50 values against the particular cell of the Formula Ia Ib and IIa compounds and of the chemotherapeutic agent are compared to the combination EC50 value. The combination index CI score is calculated by the Chou and Talalay method Chou T. and Talalay P. 1984 Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 55 . A CI less than 0.8 indicates synergy. A CI between 0.8 and 1.2 indicates additivity. A CI greater than 1.2 indicates antagonism. The CI values in B and C are from the EC50 concentrations third point from the right . The strength of synergy is assessed according to Chou and Talalay and listed in the last column of the tables. Certain combinations in B and C show the surprising and unexpected property of synergy in the in vitro cell proliferation assays with tumor type cell lines including breast cervical colon endometrial glioma lung melanoma ovarian pancreatic and prostate. Other combinations in B and C show no synergy and only show mere additivity or antagonism. Certain combinations are synergistic with one or more tumor types but not others. The synergy demonstrated in the in vitro cell proliferation assays provides a basis to expect a corresponding synergy in treating cancers including but not limited to breast cervical colon endometrial glioma lung melanoma ovarian pancreatic and prostate in human patients.

The correlation between Ras mutations and the in vitro synergy effects listed in Expts. 1 248 due to combinations of Formula Ia compound and chemotherapeutic agents can be displayed by dot plots. Each dot in is an experiment from . The experiments are grouped as Ras wild type Ras WT or Ras mutant Ras Mut with the specific mutations noted in plotted against the synergy effect Combination Index CI where synergy increases with decreasing CI as calculated by the Chou and Talalay method Chou T. and Talalay P. 1984 Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 55 .

The invention includes a method for determining compounds to be used in combination for the treatment of cancer comprising a administering a therapeutic combination of a compound having Formula I or II and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib to an in vitro tumor cell line with a K ras mutation and b measuring a synergistic or non synergistic effect.

Although other mechanisms of action may be operative in the combinations exemplified in B C and the results are consistent with PI3K inhibitors exerting a G1 phase specific effect on the inhibition of tumor cell proliferation 5FU exerting an S phase specific disruption of DNA synthesis gemcitabine exerting an S phase specific disruption of DNA synthesis and docetaxel exerting an M phase specific depolarization of microtubules.

Flow cytometry was conducted to measure the effects of combination therapy of Formula Ia compound and several chemotherapeutic agents on MB3 breast tumor and PC3 prostate tumor cells. The Annexin V PI assay detects early and late apoptotic events Example 15 . Cells that are Annexin V positive are in the early stages of apoptosis and those that are both Annexin V and PI positive are noted as dead on the bar graph charts of . The remaining cells make up the live population.

Formula Ia compound and a genotoxic chemotherapeutic agent were dosed at EC80 for 24 48 72 hours. FACS Fixed for cell cycle PI live cells for Annexin V and PI Compounds were added either simultaneously or separated by 4 hours pre dosing and post dosing with Formula Ia compound Example 19 . A wash out effect was noted where maximum synergy was attained after one hour. The combinations remained synergistic with both drugs washed out one hour after dosing. There are increases in early and late apoptosis in all three combinations when Formula Ia is combined with the chemotherapeutic drug. A low Chou and Talalay CI value suggests that a significant benefit in tumor inhibition is likely when these drugs are combined in vivo.

In glandular tissues such as the breast the epithelium interacts with a specialized form of extracellular matrix known as basement membrane. The extracellular matrix regulates normal mammary gland biology and pathogenesis. Adaptation of a reconstituted laminin rich basement membrane lrBM to standard cell culture can recapitulate the basic acinar architecture of the mammary gland and is considered to be an improved in vitro model to simulate the dynamic microenvironment of a tumor Debnath J Brugge J S. 2005 Nat Rev Cancer. 5 675 88 . Using broad specificity inhibitors PI3K signaling has been implicated in acini development of HMT 3522 T4 2 human breast tumor cells grown in lrBM whereby PI3K inhibition was sufficient to restore apical basal polarity and induce growth arrest Liu H Radisky D C Wang F Bissell M J. 2004 J Cell Biol. 164 603 12 . Given the proposed contribution of PI3K to the initiation and development of breast cancer 3D culture systems provide a novel and comprehensive means of assessing the efficacy of small molecule PI3K inhibitors such as Formula Ia compound.

The receptor tyrosine kinase HER2 Neu ErbB2 is amplified and over expressed in approximately 20 of human breast cancer and plays a causal role in mammary carcinogenesis Yarden Y Sliwkowski M X. 2001 Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2 127 37 . That HER2 over expression plays a role in human breast cancer is demonstrated by the therapeutic efficacy of the anti HER2 monoclonal antibody trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech . In addition to homodimerization HER2 can also function as a co receptor for other HER family members. The monoclonal antibody pertuzumab targets the HER2 dimerization arm extracellular subdomain II and disrupts the recruitment of HER2 into HER receptor ligand complexes Franklin et al 2004 Cancer Cell. 5 317 28 . The efficacy of PI3K inhibition was determined using Formula Ia and IIa compounds combined with inhibition of HER family signaling using the therapeutic antibodies trastuzumab and pertuzumab.

The invention includes a method for determining compounds to be used in combination for the treatment of cancer comprising a administering a therapeutic combination of claim to HER2 amplified breast cancer cells in laminin rich reconstituted basement membrane media wherein the chemotherapeutic agent targets binds to or modulates a HER2 receptor and b measuring inhibition of cellular proliferation wherein nonmalignant and malignant mammary cells are discriminated by one or more phenotypic difference selected from cell viability and acinar morphogenesis.

Combinations of Formula I and II compounds and therapeutic antibodies were evaluated in HER2 amplified BT474M1 cells Example 16 . Cells were cultured in a 3 dimensional 3D laminin rich reconstituted basement membrane to account for the role of extracellular matrix molecules in oncogene signaling and biology. The ability of 3D culture to recapitulate the oncogenic microenvironment connotes that it may be a more reliable predictor of in vivo efficacy as compared to two dimensional 2D cultures of cells on plastic and can be useful for the characterization of inhibitors and target genes. 3D culture was used to assess HER family signaling and measure the synergistic efficacy of inhibitors. Cell viability and acinar phenotypes morphogenesis were used as markers of drug efficacy Example 16 .

HER2 amplified BT474M1 cells were used to detect HER family signaling using novel 3D cell culture phenotypes and measure synergistic efficacy based on acinar morphogenesis Example 16 . One embodiment of the laminin rich reconstituted basement membrane media is Engelbreth Holm Swarm extracellular matrix extract commercially available as BD Matrigel BD Biosciences . Another exemplary embodiment of an extracellular matrix ECM for 3D culture is Madin Darby canine kidney epithelial cells. An exemplary phenotypic difference is the acinar architecture of invasive malignant and non invasive non malignant cells.

Acinar morphogenesis can be scored as an additional assay for drug efficacy. Each inhibitor is titrated to examine pathway pharmacodynamic PD markers cell viability and acinar phenotype. The lowest inhibitor drug concentration was established that effectively inhibits the target. The suitable concentration of a Formula I and II compound for 3D culture assays was determined by administering increasing doses with consideration for overall cell viability pharmacodynamics of corresponding downstream pathway markers such as phosphorylated AKT1 and changes in acinar phenotype. The lowest drug concentration that effectively inhibited the target was chosen for the assays. A concentration of 250 nM Formula Ia and IIa compound was selected as the final working concentration for 3D culture assays.

Direct inhibitors of HER2 such as trastuzumab and pertuzumab have been shown to interfere with downstream activation of several key effector pathways including the PI3K AKT axis. Combined inhibition of PI3K and HER family signaling in HER2 amplified breast cancer cells may result in potent tumor cell inhibition.

By immunoblot detection of phosphorylated AKT1 pAkt 250 nM Formula Ia compound was confirmed to potently inhibit PI3K downstream signaling Example 16 . Therapeutic antibodies were used at saturating concentrations of 20 g ml and 25 g ml for pertuzumab and trastuzumab respectively. Combination of Formula Ia and trastuzumab resulted in an additive suppression of the 3D growth of BT474M1 acini cultured in Matrigel devoid of HRG ligand. To detect ligand dependent HER2 HER3 heterodimer signaling as has been suggested to be transforming in multiple cell lines 1 nM HRG was added in these assays. Formula Ia and trastuzumab had no effect on HRG induced proliferation. By comparison co treatment with Formula Ia and pertuzumab resulted in an additive reduction of HRG induced acini growth and morphogenesis. This effect was shown to be statistically significant upon multiple replicates. In the absence of ligand the reduction of 3D acini growth was greater following treatment with Formula Ia and trastuzumab as compared to Formula Ia and pertuzumab. The combination of trastuzumab and Formula Ia compound inhibit cell proliferation and attenuate heregulin induced morphogenesis. The combination of trastuzumab and Formula Ia compound have potent and additive effects on 3D growth in normal serum but no additivity was observed with the combination on acini growth or morphogenesis in heregulin treated media. The combination of pertuzumab and Formula Ia compound combination potently but additively inhibits BT474M1 acini growth and morphogenesis. The triple combination of trastuzumab pertuzumab and Formula Ia compound synergistically inhibits BT474M1 acini bud growth and morphogenesis in both HRG supplemented and standard media.

Each inhibitor was titrated to examine relevant pathway pharmacodynamic PD markers cell viability and acinar phenotype. The lowest inhibitor drug concentration that effectively inhibited the target was established and utilized in all 3D assays.

In standard media without heregulin cell activity is comparatively lower in the presence of trastuzumab pertuzumab or Formula Ia compound individually but not in HRG treated media. The combination of trastuzumab and Formula Ia compound inhibited cell proliferation and attenuated heregulin induced morphogenesis in normal serum but no additivity was observed on acini growth or morphogenesis in heregulin treated media. The combination of pertuzumab and Formula Ia compound potently and additively inhibited BT474M1 acini growth and morphogenesis in both standard and heregulin supplemented media. The triple combination of trastuzumab pertuzumab and Formula Ia compound synergistically inhibited BT474M1 cell proliferation and heregulin induced morphogenesis in both standard and HRG supplemented media. The combination of all three agents synergistically decreases cell viability in both standard and HRG supplemented media. Heregulin induced morphogenesis of BT474M1 cells was also abolished by the triple combination as determined through microscopic inspection. These data suggest that the Formula Ia trastuzumab and pertuzumab triple combination may provide improved efficacy for treating HER2 amplified breast cancer in human patients.

Trastuzumab or Formula Ia significantly reduce acinar size in normal media but have limited effect on HRG induced morphogenesis. As a combined treatment trastuzumab and Formula Ia can minimize acinar size and morphogenesis. By Cell Titer Glo analysis of cell viability additivity between trastuzumab and Formula Ia results in decreased cell growth in normal media but no difference is seen with the addition of HRG.

Pertuzumab completely inhibits HRG induced morphogenesis whereas Formula Ia only partially reduces the phenotype. Together pertuzumab and Formula Ia abates cell growth and morphogenesis in both normal and HRG supplemented media. By evaluation of cell viability as measured by Cell Titer Glo. a decrease in cellular activity is observed in the presence of pertuzumab and Formula Ia as either single agents or combined therapy in normal media. HRG treated acini also show a similar trend but to a lesser extent. By evaluation of Dunnett s T test comparison of Cell Titer Glo replicates n 8 the combination of pertuzumab and Formula Ia significantly inhibits cellular activity p 0.0054 .

The efficacy of the combinations of the invention may be measured in vivo by implanting allografts or xenografts of cancer cells in rodents and treating the tumor bearing animals with the combinations. Variable results are to be expected depending on the cell line the presence or absence of certain mutations in the tumor cells the sequence of administration of Formula I or II compound and chemotherapeutic agent dosing regimen and other factors. Subject mice were treated with drug s or control Vehicle and monitored over several weeks or more to measure the time to tumor doubling log cell kill and tumor inhibition Example 17 .

The group of 11 animals dosed with Formula Ia 150 mg kg showed 75 inhibition after 21 days and 3 partial regressions and 66 inhibition after 41 days. The group of 10 animals dosed with docetaxel 5 mg kg showed 78 inhibition after 21 days and 2 partial regressions and 26 inhibition after 41 days. The group of 9 animals dosed with the combination of Formula Ia 150 mg kg and docetaxel 5 mg kg showed 90 inhibition after 21 days and 7 partial regressions and 83 inhibition after 41 days. The combination showed better efficacy in tumor inhibition and was statistically significant when compared to each single drug p 0.0001 vs docetaxel and p 0.02 vs Formula Ia .

Treatment of BT474 M1 in vivo passaged subclone of BT474 cells with trastuzumab caused a decrease in pAKT equal to the decrease achieved with Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 . Adding trastuzumab to 50 nM Formula Ia caused a dose dependent enhanced decrease in pAKT. At the maximal trastuzumab dose the additional reduction was 29 38 of GDC 0941 treatment alone. The enhanced combinatorial effect on pAKT inhibition was not transient and could still be detected 48 h after treatment. The combinatorial effect seen in pAKT was also reflected in downstream AKT signaling components. BT474 M1 cells were treated for four hours with Formula Ia in the presence or absence of trastuzumab. The addition of trastuzumab further decreased the phosphorylation of direct AKT substrate PRAS40 Thr246 and a distal substrate phospho S6 ribosomal protein Ser235 236 suggesting that trastuzumab and Formula Ia have enhanced combinatorial effect on downstream AKT signaling. Enhanced PI3K AKT pathway inhibition results in decreased cell proliferation viability was demonstrated when BT474 M1 cells were treated for six days and cell viability was measured. Trastuzumab alone reduced proliferation viability by 40 . In the absence of trastuzumab the ICvalue for Formula Ia was 296 nM. The addition of trastuzumab caused a dose dependent enhanced reduction in proliferation viability. A maximal trastuzumab dose of 10 ug ml resulted in a 64 decrease in the concentration of Formula Ia that is required to reach its IC50 of 106 nM demonstrating an enhanced combinatorial effect in decreasing cell proliferation viability as well. A similar combinatorial effect on pAKT and inhibition of proliferation was also observed when SKBR 3 cells were treated but not when the trastuzumab non responsive KPL 4 cells were treated. The combination of trastuzumab and Formula Ia inhibits proliferation synergistically in BT474 and SKBR 3 cells over most of the effective drug range as determined by CalcuSyn software showing that the combination enhances the inhibitory effect on AKT and its downstream targets resulting in a synergistic effect on the proliferation of trastuzumab sensitive breast cancer cells.

The combination of trastuzumab and Formula Ia additively induces apoptosis of BT474 M1 cells breast cancer cells treated for 48 h. The combination of trastuzumab and Formula Ia increased the accumulation of cleaved caspase 3 fragments indicative of activation of this key effector caspase. Combining trastuzumab and Formula Ia also resulted in an increase in cleaved PARP 89 kDa fragment a known response to caspase 3 activation. The activity of caspases 3 and 7 was also increased when trastuzumab was added to Formula Ia treatment. Combining trastuzumab with 250 nM Formula Ia increased the activity of caspases 3 and 7 to a level similar to that detected with a four fold higher dose of 1000 nM Formula Ia alone. Importantly this increase in caspase activity was reflected on the apoptotic index of these cells. The addition of trastuzumab dramatically decreased the concentration of Formula Ia required to induce apoptosis. A near equivalent level of apoptosis was detected when cells were treated with 100 nM of Formula Ia and trastuzumab than when treated with 1000 nM of Formula Ia alone. As expected the increase in apoptosis was reflected in a decrease in cell viability after 48 h. A similar increase in caspase activity and apoptosis was seen when SKBR 3 cells were treated with the inhibitor combination. The combination of Formula Ia with trastuzumab significantly lowers the Formula Ia concentration required for reaching the threshold of caspase activation and apoptosis in trastuzumab sensitive breast cancer cells. Therefore trastuzumab treatment could be used to sensitize HER2 amplified cells to PI3K inhibition and thus provide an additional level of tumor specificity for the PI3K inhibitor Formula Ia.

Combination therapy with Formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents was effective in treatment of small cell lung cancer SCLC non small cell lung cancer NSCLC and pancreatic adenocarcinoma PDAC in genetically engineered mouse models GEMM which recapitulate human tumor progression in an endogenous tissue micro environment Singh M. and Johnson L. 2006 Clin. Cancer Res. 12 18 5312 5328 US 2007 0292948 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety . The surprising and unexpected results from these experiments may predict the clinical response of certain patient populations having select tumor types and mutations to such combination therapy with Formula I and II compounds and chemotherapeutic agents.

In a model for SCLC Meuwissen et al 2003 Cancer Cell 4 3 181 189 bearing the mutations commonly found in the patient population Formula Ia compound alone did not show effects on tumor growth as assessed by microCT imaging but did have an effect significant hazard ratio on survival as compared to controls. Animals dosed with the combination of Formula Ia compound and mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A showed a significant inhibition and regression of tumor growth by microCT imaging when compared to controls and each single drug. The combination of Formula Ia compound and mB20 4.1 murine anti VEGF A also had a statistically significant impact on overall survival compared to controls. Animals dosed with the triple combination of Formula Ia compound carboplatin and mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A also showed a measurable and durable anti tumor response as compared to single agents. The triple combination significantly increased survival as compared to single agents and Formula Ia compound in this triple regimen enhanced the survival advantage compared to the carboplatin and mB20 4.1 murine anti VEGF A dual combination. In addition these combinatorial regimens markedly decreased the incidence of metastases to regional lymph nodes and the liver when compared to controls and each single drug.

A GEMM for pancreatic cancer Aguirre et al. 2003 Genes Development 17 3112 3126 encompasses the mutations found in a majority of patients with this disease. These mice when treated with Formula Ia compound showed an initial decrease in tumor growth via ultrasound as compared to control treated mice. However this response was not durable and the single agent treatment had a modest not statistically significant effect on survival in these mice. In contrast Formula Ia in combination with mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A showed significant decreases in tumor growth via ultrasound as compared to untreated mice and single agents as well as a significant impact on survival. Combination therapy with gemcitabine either with or without mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A did not show significant improvements in tumor growth inhibition via ultrasound or survival as compared to gemcitabine alone.

In a K ras driven NSCLC GEMM Johnson et al 2001 Nature 410 1111 1116 Jackson et al 2001 Genes Development 15 3243 3248 Formula Ia compound treatment alone minimally affected tumor growth as measured by microCT imaging and had no effect on survival as compared to controls. Treatment with Formula Ia compound in combination with erlotinib showed modest tumor growth inhibition and survival advantage as compared to the single agent treatments. Treatment with Formula Ia compound in combination with mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A resulted in a notable decrease in tumor growth and increase in survival as compared to controls albeit not significantly greater than the effects observed with mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A as a single agent. Animals dosed with the triple combination of Formula Ia compound carboplatin and mB20 4.1.1 murine anti VEGF A also showed a measurable and durable anti tumor response as compared to controls and also markedly impacted survival in this model.

Pharmaceutical compositions or formulations of the present invention include combinations of Formula I or II compounds a chemotherapeutic agent and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

The Formula I or II compounds and chemotherapeutic agents of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The Formula I or II compounds and chemotherapeutic agents of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

Pharmaceutical compositions encompass both the bulk composition and individual dosage units comprised of more than one e.g. two pharmaceutically active agents including a Formula I or II compound and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from the lists of the additional agents described herein along with any pharmaceutically inactive excipients diluents carriers or glidants. The bulk composition and each individual dosage unit can contain fixed amounts of the aforesaid pharmaceutically active agents. The bulk composition is material that has not yet been formed into individual dosage units. An illustrative dosage unit is an oral dosage unit such as tablets pills capsules and the like. Similarly the herein described method of treating a patient by administering a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is also intended to encompass the administration of the bulk composition and individual dosage units.

Pharmaceutical compositions also embrace isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Formula I or II compounds and chemotherapeutic agents are formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice for use in a therapeutic combination for therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of hyperproliferative disorders in mammals including humans. The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Formula I or II compound in association with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a Formula I or II compound having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1995 18th edition Mack Publ. Co. Easton Pa. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8.

The pharmaceutical formulation is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The pharmaceutical formulation ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical formulations of the invention will be dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the coagulation factor mediated disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host or renders the host significantly more susceptible to bleeding.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the Formula I or II compound administered orally or parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 1000 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day. The dose of the Formula I or II compound and the dose of the chemotherapeutic agent to be administered may range for each from about 1 mg to about 1000 mg per unit dosage form or from about 10 mg to about 100 mg per unit dosage form. The doses of Formula I or II compound and the chemotherapeutic agent may administered in a ratio of about 1 50 to about 50 1 by weight or in a ratio of about 1 10 to about 10 1 by weight.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th edition 1995 Mack Publ. Co. Easton Pa.

Sustained release preparations of Formula I and II compounds may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The pharmaceutical formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18Ed. 1995 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I or II and or chemotherapeutic agent suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills hard or soft e.g. gelatin capsules cachets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions syrups or elixirs each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I or II and or a chemotherapeutic agent. The amount of compound of Formula I or II and the amount of chemotherapeutic agent may be formulated in a pill capsule solution or suspension as a combined formulation. Alternatively the Formula I or II compound and the chemotherapeutic agent may be formulated separately in a pill capsule solution or suspension for administration by alternation.

Formulations may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablet excipients of a pharmaceutical formulation of the invention may include Filler or diluent to increase the bulk volume of the powdered drug making up the tablet Disintegrants to encourage the tablet to break down into small fragments ideally individual drug particles when it is ingested and promote the rapid dissolution and absorption of drug Binder to ensure that granules and tablets can be formed with the required mechanical strength and hold a tablet together after it has been compressed preventing it from breaking down into its component powders during packaging shipping and routine handling Glidant to improve the flowability of the powder making up the tablet during production Lubricant to ensure that the tableting powder does not adhere to the equipment used to press the tablet during manufacture. They improve the flow of the powder mixes through the presses and minimize friction and breakage as the finished tablets are ejected from the equipment Antiadherent with function similar to that of the glidant reducing adhesion between the powder making up the tablet and the machine that is used to punch out the shape of the tablet during manufacture Flavor incorporated into tablets to give them a more pleasant taste or to mask an unpleasant one and Colorant to aid identification and patient compliance.

Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner including a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up an emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat comprise an emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of the pharmaceutical formulations of the invention contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may be a solution or a suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared from a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

Formula I and II compounds may be employed in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease or disorder including tumors cancers and neoplastic tissue along with pre malignant and non neoplastic or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I or II is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating the hyperproliferative disorder. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I or II and such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds may be administered in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a pharmaceutical formulation of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or II or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein. In another embodiment the therapeutic combination is administered by a dosing regimen wherein the therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I or II is administered in a range from twice daily to once every three weeks q3wk and the therapeutically effective amount of the chemotherapeutic agent is administered in a range from twice daily to once every three weeks.

Therapeutic combinations of the invention include a product comprising a compound having Formula I or II and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from erlotinib docetaxel 5 FU gemcitabine PD 0325901 cisplatin carboplatin paclitaxel bevacizumab trastuzumab pertuzumab temozolomide tamoxifen doxorubicin Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib as a combined preparation for separate simultaneous or sequential use in the treatment of a hyperproliferative disorder.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments such as to increase the therapeutic index or mitigate toxicity or other side effects or consequences.

In a particular embodiment of anti cancer therapy a compound of Formula I or II or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be combined with a chemotherapeutic agent including hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or II or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I or II and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial inhalation intradermal intrathecal epidural and infusion techniques transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. Topical administration can also involve the use of transdermal administration such as transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices. Formulation of drugs is discussed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18Ed. 1995 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. Other examples of drug formulations can be found in Liberman H. A. and Lachman L. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker Vol 3 2Ed. New York N.Y. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle or diluent and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I or II compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QD twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic PK and pharmacodynamic PD properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration dosing regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested twice daily daily or less frequently such as weekly or once every two or three weeks for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Therapeutic combinations of 1 a Formula I or II compound and 2 a chemotherapeutic agent are useful for treating diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by activation of the PI3 kinase pathway. Accordingly another aspect of this invention includes methods of treating diseases or conditions that can be treated by inhibiting lipid kinases including PI3. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or II or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Therapeutic combinations of 1 a Formula I or II compound and 2 a chemotherapeutic agent may be employed for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease or disorder including tumors cancers an dneoplastic tissue along with pre malignant and non neoplastic or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a therapeutic combination and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein the Formula I or II compound or metabolite thereof of said therapeutic combination is present in an amount to detectably inhibit PI3 kinase activity.

Cancers which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukemia.

Another aspect of this invention provides a pharmaceutical composition or therapeutic combination for use in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a pharmaceutical composition in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I and II described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I and II including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing Formula I and II compounds useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or II or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I or II. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I or II can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I or II and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I or II and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I or II such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I or II contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

Where the kit comprises a composition of Formula I or II and a second therapeutic agent i.e. the chemotherapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a fused bicyclic heterocycle or heteroaryl at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring see Scheme 4 . Generally substituted 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 5 or substituted 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 may be combined with 1.5 equivalents of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the indazole boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the indazole may be protected for example with a tetrahydropyranyl group. See compound 40. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction was then heated to about 140 150 C. under pressure in a Biotage Optimizer microwave reactor Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the product 8 or 9 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a monocyclic heteroaryl at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring see Scheme 4 . Generally substituted 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 5 or substituted 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 may be combined with 1.5 equivalents of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 7a and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium or potassium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the pinacol boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the pyrimidin 2 amine may be protected for example with a tetrahydropyranyl group. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction was then heated for example to about 100 150 C. under pressure in a Biotage Optimizer microwave reactor Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the product 8a or 9a may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

2 1H Indazol 4 yl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carboxylic acid 13 or 2 1H indazol 4 yl 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carboxylic acid 14 is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of alkylamine and 3 eq of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield product 15 or 16.

4 Morpholino 2 pyridin 3 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carboxylic acid 13a or 4 morpholino 2 pyridin 3 yl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carboxylic acid 14a is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of an alkylamine R NH and 3 eq of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield product 15a or 16a.

2 Chloro 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine or 2 chloro 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidine is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of carboxylic acid RCOH and 3 eq of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethyl acetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 or 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 33 was dissolved to a 0.2 M concentration in dichloroethane. To this solution was added 1.5 to 2.0 equivalents of an amine RRNH 10 equivalents of trimethylorthoformate and 1 equivalent of acetic acid. The mixture was allowed to stir for 2 6 hours prior to adding 1.5 equivalents of sodium triacetoxyborohydride. Following 12 to 16 hours of stirring the reaction was poured into saturated sodium bicarbonate and extracted several times with ethyl acetate to give the reductive amination intermediate which was either purified on silica gel or used crude in the next reaction.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 sulfonyl chloride 17 was suspended in 1 mL of DCM before addition of 2 eq of amine and 3 eq of DIPEA. The reactions were monitored by LCMS until complete. The crude reaction mixtures were diluted with ethyl acetate extracted with saturated ammonium chloride and back extracted once with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined and concentrated to dryness. The crude sulfonamide intermediates 18 were used directly in the subsequent Suzuki couplings.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 4 was suspended to a 0.2 molar concentration in THF and cooled to 50 C. in a dry ice acetonitrile bath before adding 2 equivalents of 2.5 M nBuLi in hexanes. After 15 min 3.0 molar equivalents of a cyclic or acyclic ketone was added to the solution. The reaction continued to stir at 50 C. for 1 h and then in most cases was allowed to come to 0 C. When the reaction was complete by TLC or mass spec. it was quenched into a saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted two times with EtOAc. The organic layer was concentrated and either used as a crude mixture purified on silica or the product 12 could be dissolved in a minimal amount of acetonitrile and filtered to remove remaining starting material 4.

Ten or more equivalents of 4N HCl in dioxane with or without dichloromethane as a co solvent are added to the starting material general scheme shown above but similar scaffolds also used . Heating up to 40 C. for several hours is occasionally required to remove the Boc group. The reaction is concentrated to dryness and may be used crude in subsequent reactions.

2 Chloro 6 iodo 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 19 1 eq phenylboronic acid or heterocycleboronic acid R B OH 1.1 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq in 1M NaCOaqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile 3 eq was heated to 100 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 to 40 min to give 5. Upon completion 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 1.3 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq were added in the same pot. The reaction mixture was heated to 150 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 to 15 min. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated to yield crude 8.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 amine 22 1 eq Acid chloride 1.5 2 eq and triethylamine 2 eq in dichloromethane was stirred. The reaction was monitored by LC MS until complete. The mixture was evaporated to give the crude amide 23 which was directly used for the next step reaction without purification.

To a 0.25 to 0.40 M solution of 1 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 yl N methylmethanamine in DCM cooled to 0 eC was added 1.5 eq. of TEA followed by the drop wise addition of 1.0 to 1.5 eq. of an alkyl or aryl acid chloride or a sulfonylchloride diluted in DCM. The reaction is stirred at ambient temperature and monitored for completeness by LCMS. After completion the reaction volume is increased with DCM and dilute aqueous sodium bicarbonate is added to the solution. The organic and aqueous layers are separated. Finally the organic layer is washed with brine and dried MgSO . The dried organic solution is concentrated in vacuo and the product is purified by silica chromatography if necessary.

3 2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl benzenamine 24 1 eq carboxylic acid 1.5 eq 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole 0.2 eq O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 1.5 eq and N N diisopropylethylamine 2.5 eq in DMF was stirred at room temperature. The reaction was monitored by LC MS until complete. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated to yield amide product 25.

To a solution of 2 chloro 6 iodo 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 19 0.05 g 0.13 mmol in DMF 1.00 mL was added the appropriate aniline 200 mol CsCO 50 mol Pd dba 5 mol and XANTPHOS 10 mol . The reaction was heated to 110 C. under pressure in a Biotage optimizer microwave reactor for 30 min. The resulting solution was concentrated in vacuo to give 26 after following General Procedure A.

To a solution of 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methanamine 27 50 mg 0.2 mmol in CHCl 4 mL was added EtN 84 L 0.6 mmol and the appropriate acid chloride or HCl salt thereof 0.3 mmol . The reaction stirred 18 48 hr at room temperature before being quenched with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The 2 chloro crude product was coupled with boronate reagent 7 and palladium catalyst according to General Procedure A to give 28 which was purified by reversed phase HPLC purification.

Alternatively to a solution of 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methanamine 27 111 mg 0.39 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added 2 6 lutidine 48.2 L 0.41 mmol and the appropriate acid chloride or HCl salt thereof 0.39 mmol . The reaction stirred 18 72 hr at room temperature before being quenched with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The 2 chloro crude product was coupled with boronate reagent 7 and palladium catalyst according to General Procedure A to give 20 mg of 28 which was purified by reversed phase HPLC purification.

A mixture of 2 chloro 6 6 fluoropyridin 3 yl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine or 2 chloro 6 6 fluoropyridin 3 yl 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine compound about four equivalents of a primary or secondary amine R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and about two eq. diisopropylethylamine in N methylpyrrolidine a 0.1M is heated to about 130 140 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 40 min followed by removal of volatiles under high vacuum. The crude mixture is purified by flash chromatography to give intermediate 2 chloro 6 6 aminopyridin 3 yl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine or 2 chloro 6 6 aminopyridin 3 yl 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine compound which may be Suzuki coupled with a monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic heterocycle or heteroaryl boronate reagent following General Procedure A.

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other PI3K inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

A mixture of methyl 3 amino 2 thiophenecarboxylate 1 13.48 g 85.85 mmol and urea 29.75 g 5 eq. was heated at 190 C. for 2 hours. The hot reaction mixture was poured onto sodium hydroxide solution and any insoluble material was removed by filtration. The mixture was then acidified HCl 2N to yield 1H thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 4 dione 2 as a white precipitate which was collected by filtration and air dried 9.49 g 66 . H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 6.90 1H d J 5.2 Hz 8.10 1H d J 5.2 Hz 11.60 11.10 2H br s .

A mixture of 1H thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 4 dione 2 9.49 g 56.49 mmol and phosphorous oxychloride 150 mL was heated at reflux for 6 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and poured onto ice water with vigorous stirring yielding a precipitate. The mixture was then filtered to yield 2 4 dichloro thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 3 as a white solid 8.68 g 75 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.56 1H d J 5.5 Hz 8.13 1H d J 5.5 Hz .

A mixture of 2 4 dichloro thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 3 8.68 g 42.34 mmol morpholine 8.11 mL 2.2 eq. and MeOH 150 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered washed with water and MeOH to yield 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 4 as a white solid 11.04 g 100 . H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 3.74 4H t J 4.9 Hz 3.90 4H t J 4.9 Hz 7.40 1H d J 5.6 Hz 8.30 1H d J 5.6 Hz .

To a suspension of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 4 1.75 g 6.85 mmol in dry THF 40 mL at 78 C. was added a 2.5M solution of n butyllithium nBuLi in hexane 3.3 mL 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 1 h dry DMF 796 L 1.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. and then warmed slowly to room temperature. After a further 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture poured onto ice water yielding a yellow precipitate. This was collected by filtration and air dried to yield 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 1.50 g 77 . H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 3.76 4H t J 4.9 3.95 4H t J 4.9 8.28 1H s 10.20 1H s .

To a suspension of 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 38 1.75 g 6.85 mmol in dry THF 40 mL at 78 C. was added a 2.5M solution of n butyllithium nBuLi in hexane 3.3 mL 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 1 h dry DMF 796 L 1.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. and then warmed slowly to room temperature. After a further 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was poured onto ice water yielding a yellow precipitate which was collected by filtration and air dried to yield 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 33 1.50 g MS Q1 284 M .

To a solution of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 39 3.0 g 11.1 mmol prepared according to the procedure for the synthesis of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine but commencing with 3 amino 4 methyl thiophene 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester in THF 60 mL at 78 C. was added n BuLi 8.9 mL 2.5 M in EtO . The resulting slurry was warmed to 40 C. and stirred 50 min. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 12 5.6 g 22.2 mmol in THF 30 mL was added. The solution was warmed to room temperature and stirred 5 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organics were washed with saturated aqueous NaSO dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide 2 chloro 6 iodo 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 41 3.8 g 84 yield .

A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 3.5 g 1 BOC piperazine 2.76 g and trimethylorthoformate 4.05 mL was stirred in 1 2 dichloroethane 300 mL for 1 hr at room temperature. To this was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 3.92 g and the reaction mixture was stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. The mixture was then quenched with brine extracted with dichloromethane dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 4 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 3.4 g . Treatment with HCl in dichloromethane methanol yielded 4 2 chloro 6 piperazin 1 ylmethyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 30.

To 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 33 2.0 g in 50 mL toluene and 50 mL THF was added 20 mL of 40 methylamine in HO. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temp under Nfor 24 hours. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 50 mL MeOH and 50 mL THF and the NaBHadded portion wise. This reaction mixture was stirred at room temp under Nfor 24 hours and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by flash chromatography EtOAc EtOH to give 1.12 g 34 53 yield . MS Q1 300 M .

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 2.0 g was dissolved in 50 mL toluene and 50 mL THF followed by the addition of 20 mL of 40 methylamine in HO. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temp under Nfor 24 hours. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 50 mL methanol and 50 mL THF and the NaBHadded portion wise. This reaction mixture was stirred at room temp under Nfor 24 hours and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by flash chromatography EtOAc EtOH to give 1.12 g 35 53 yield . MS Q1 300 M .

2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 36 was dissolved in 20 mL toluene and 20 mL THF followed by the addition of 15 mL 40 methylamine in HO and the reaction was stirred for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue dissolved in 30 mL methanol and 30 mL THF followed by the addition of NaBH. The reaction was stirred at room temp for at least 24 hours and product formation was confirmed by LCMS. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by flash chromatography to give 2.53 g 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl N methylmethanamine 37 70 yield MS Q1 314 M 

Reaction between N BOC piperazine and methane sulfonyl chloride in dichloromethane and triethylamine yielded 4 methanesulfonyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester. Cleavage of the BOC protecting group using HCl 2M in dichloromethane yielded 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine HCl salt.

A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 1.00 g 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine 750 mg and trimethylorthoformate 3.80 mL was stirred in 1 2 dichloroethane 30 mL for 6 hrs at room temperature. To this was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 900 mg and the reaction mixture was stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. The mixture was then quenched with brine extracted with dichloromethane dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was triturated with hot ethyl acetate to yield 4 2 chloro 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 31 as a white solid 1.01 g .

Reaction between 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine HCL salt and 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 33 using General Procedure C yielded 2 chloro 6 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidine.

Intermediate 7 was prepared according to the methods of US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 WO 2006 046031 incorporated by reference herein.

Intermediate 40 was prepared according to the methods of US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 WO 2006 046031 incorporated by reference herein.

A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 100 mg 0.35 mmol 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 70 95 mg 0.39 mmol and sodium carbonate 112 mg were suspended in toluene 2.5 mL ethanol 1.5 mL and water 0.7 mL . To this was added bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 13.5 mg and the reaction vessel was flushed with argon. The reaction mixture was microwaved at 120 C. for 1 h and then partitioned between DCM and water the organic layer was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 2 1H indazol 4 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 11 97 mg .

A mixture of 4 2 chloro 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 31 from Example 4 2.00 g 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 2.26 g toluene 24 mL ethanol 12 mL water 6 mL sodium carbonate 1.72 g and PdCl PPh 325 mg was heated to 130 C. in the microwave for 90 minutes US 2008 0076768 WO 2006 046031 incorporated by reference herein .

The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with chloroform washed with brine dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified using flash chromatography ethyl acetate then 5 ethyl acetate methanol and then trituration with ether yielded Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 1.4 g . MS data ESI MH 514. NMR data CDCl3 2.67 2.71 4H m 2.81 3H s 3.29 3.33 4H m 3.89 2H s 3.89 3.93 4H m 4.08 4.12 4H m 7.41 1H s 7.51 1H t J 7.2 7.60 1H d J 8.3 8.28 1H d J 7.5 9.02 1H s 10.10 1H br 

2 Chloro 6 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidine 32 from Example 5 was reacted with 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 and General Procedure A to give Formula IIa compound which was purified using flash chromatography US 2008 0076758 WO 2006 046031 incorporated by reference herein . 400 MHz 1H NMR CDCl3 2.67 m 4H 2 CH2 2.81 s 3H CH3 3.30 m 4H 2 CH2 3.83 s 2H CH2 3.92 3.94 m 4H 2 CH2 3.98 4.00 m 4H 2 CH2 7.17 s H ArH 7.50 t H ArH J 7.81 Hz 7.59 d H ArH J 8.31 Hz 8.31 d H ArH J 6.98 Hz 10.12 sbr H NH . MH 514.10

2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 36 495 mg was reacted with Boc piperazine via General Procedure B 3 to give tert butyl 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazine 1 carboxylate.

Tert butyl 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 777 mg was subjected to General Procedure E to give the HCl salt of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine. The HCl salt of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 590 mg was reacted with lactic acid via General Procedure B 2 to give S 1 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 mopholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one.

 S 1 4 2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one 60 mg was reacted with 50 mg of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A 2 to give 10 mg of Formula Ib WO 2008 070740 incorporated by reference . MS Q1 499.3 M .

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration and the ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume proxi plates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 uM. The compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

Efficacy of Formula I or II compounds were measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol Promega Corp. Technical Bulletin TB288 Mendoza et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 5485 5488 . The Cell Titer Glo assay reagents and protocol are commercially available Promega . The assay assesses the ability of compounds to get into cells and inhibit cell proliferation. The assay principle is the determination of the number of viable cells present by quantitating the ATP present. Cell Titer Glo is the reagent used for this quantitation. It is a homogenous assay where addition of the Cell Titer Glo results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal through the luciferase reaction. The luminescent signal is proportional to the amount of ATP present.

Day 1 Seed Cell Plates Harvest cells Seed PC3 cells at 1000 cells per 54 l per well into 384 well Cell Plates for 3 days assay. Incubate O N at 37 C 5 CO.

Day 2 Add Drug to Cells Compound Dilution DMSO Plates serial 1 2 for 9 points Add 20 ul compounds at 10 mM in the 2nd column of 96 well plate. Perform serial 1 2 across the plate 10 l 10 l 100 DMSO for a total of 9 points using Precision. Media Plates 1 50 dilution Add 147 l of Media into all wells. Transfer 3 l of DMSO compound from each well in the DMSO Plate to each corresponding well on Media Plate using Rapidplate. For 2 drug combo studies transfer one drug 1.5 l of DMSO compound from each well in the DMSO Plate to each corresponding well on Media Plate using Rapidplate. Then transfer another drug 1.5 ul to the medium plate.

Drug Addition to Cells Cell Plate 1 10 dilution Add 6 l of media compound directly to cells 54 l of media on the cells already . Incubate 3 days at 37 C 5 CO2 in an incubator that will not be opened often.

Day 5 Develop Plates Thaw Cell Titer Glo Buffer at room temperature. Remove Cell Plates from 37 C. and equilibrate to room temperature. for about 30 minutes. Add Cell Titer Glo Buffer to Cell Titer Glo Substrate bottle to bottle . Add 30 l Cell Titer Glo Reagent to each well of cells. Place on plate shaker for about 30 minutes. Read luminescence on Analyst HT Plate Reader half second per well .

Cell viability assays and combination assays Cells were seeded at 1000 2000 cells well in 384 well plates for 16 h. On day two nine serial 1 2 compound dilutions were made in DMSO in a 96 well plate. The compounds were further diluted into growth media using a Rapidplate robot Zymark Corp. Hopkinton Mass. . The diluted compounds were then added to quadruplicate wells in 384 well cell plates and incubated at 37 C and 5 CO. After 4 days relative numbers of viable cells were measured by luminescence using Cell Titer Glo Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions and read on a Wallac Multilabel Reader PerkinElmer Foster City . EC50 values were calculated using Prism 4.0 software GraphPad San Diego . Drugs in combination assays were dosed starting at 4 EC50 concentrations. If cases where the EC50 of the drug was 2.5 M the highest concentration used was 10 M. PI3K inhibitors and chemotherapeutic agents were added simultaneously or separated by 4 hours one before the other in all assays.

1. An aliquot of 100 l of cell culture containing about 10cells see for cell lines and tumor type in medium was deposited in each well of a 384 well opaque walled plate.

5. A volume of CellTiter Glo Reagent equal to the volume of cell culture medium present in each well was added.

Alternatively cells were seeded at optimal density in a 96 well plate and incubated for 4 days in the presence of test compound. Alamar Blue was subsequently added to the assay medium and cells were incubated for 6 h before reading at 544 nm excitation 590 nm emission. ECvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal dose response curve fit.

Cells 2 10 were placed in a 10 cm tissue culture plate. After 16 hours the cells were exposed to 0.1 DMSO control or Formula Ia containing 0.1 DMSO for 48 hours. Cells were then removed from the plate using trypsin and washed once with PBS. To detect apoptosis cells MB361 PC3 were resuspended in binding buffer 10 mM Hepes NaOH pH 7.4 140 mM NaCl and 2.5 mM CaCl at 1 10cells mL and immediately stained with 5 L annexin V FITC BD Pharmingen Franklin Lakes N.J. and 500 L propidium iodide PI solution containing 50 g mL PI Sigma 0.2 mg mL RNase solution Sigma and 0.1 Triton X Sigma in PBS. The mixture was incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes and cells were analyzed with a flow cytometer BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. .

The biological activity of PI3K inhibitors and the most effective therapeutic combinations of PI3K and HER family inhibitors in HER2 amplified breast cancer cells were determined in 3D cell culture performed using the overlay method. Formula Ia compound was used as a suspension in dimethylsulfoxide at a concentration of 50 mM. Heregulin beta 1 hereafter referred to as HRG was provided at a storage concentration of 225.8 M. BT474M1 cells were treated with 20 g ml trastuzumab 2 g ml pertuzumab 250 nM Formula Ia compound or 250 nM Formula IIa compound in 3D culture. Cell viability was determined by measuring cellular ATP levels using the Cell Titer Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay Promega . Readings were based on the average of 3 replicates per assay condition. Morphogenesis was quantified by calculating the extent of bud formation from phase contrast images. 100 Acini in each assay condition typically 9 days in duration were scored for the number of buds formed on the acinar surface. Culture media is refreshed every 3 days.

In a titration curve BT474M1 cells were treated with incremental doses of Formula Ia to determine an optimal concentration that effectively inhibited markers downstream of PI3K AKT and led to an overall decrease in cell viability Cell Titer Glo . BT474M1 cells were derived from a BT474 parental cell line purchased through the American Type Culture Collection. Cells were passaged through mice to obtain a viable estrogen dependent cell line suitable for in vitro and in vivo studies.

All 3D assays were performed using the overlay method as described Lee et al 2007 Nat. Methods. 4 359 65 . Forty eight well dishes were coated evenly with 100 ul of growth factor reduced Matrigel BD Biosciences on ice. Plates were subsequently transferred to a 37 C. incubator for 20 minutes to allow for matrix polymerization. BT474M1 cells were harvested and 10 000 cells well were seeded onto Matrigel coated dishes. Cells were cultivated in growth medium supplemented with 5 Matrigel and corresponding drugs or ligand. Assays were typically 9 10 days in duration and growth medium was replaced every 3 days. Phase contrast images were recorded with a Sony Digital Camera DXC S500 adapted to a Leica DMIL microscope. Cell viability was determined by measuring cellular ATP levels using the Cell Titer Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay Promega . Readings were assessed by a luminometer and based on the average of 3 replicates per assay condition. Morphogenesis was quantified by calculating the extent of bud formation from phase contrast images. One hundred acini in each assay condition were scored for the number of buds formed on the acinar surface. Scores were totaled and grouped into categories of 0 1 2 3 or 4 buds per acini.

Animals suitable for transgenic experiments can be obtained from standard commercial sources. Groups of female CD 1 nude mice Charles River Laboratory were implanted subcutaneously in the hind flank with 20 million MDA MB 361.1 PI3K mutant breast cancer cells with matrigel and 0.36 mg of estrogen implants per mouse. Groups of female NMRI nu nu mice Janvier were implanted with 150 mm3 fragments of MAXF 401 Her2 ER PR or MAXF 1162 Her2 ER PR primary breast tumors biopsied directly from two individual breast cancer patients with matrigel and 0.36 mg of estrogen pellets per mouse. Groups of female HRLN nu nu Harlan Labs were implanted with 10 million MCF 7 PI3K mutant breast cancer cells with matrigel and 0.36 mg of estrogen pellets per mouse. Groups of female athymic nu nu mice Charles River Laboratory were implanted with 15 million NCI H2122 K Ras mutant non small cell lung cancer cells and matrigel per mouse. Mouse xenografts were dosed at day 1 with drug drug combination or vehicle according to the schedule specified for each tumor model. Docetaxel was administered intravenously B20 1.4 was administered intraperitonealy and Formula Ia and IIa were delivered per os by oral gavage. Tumor sizes were recorded twice weekly over the course of the study. Mouse body weights were also recorded twice weekly and the mice were observed regularly. Tumor volume was measured in two dimensions length and width using Ultra Cal IV calipers Model 54 10 111 Fred V. Fowler Co. Inc. Newton Mass. and analyzed using Excel v.11.2 Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . Tumor inhibition graphs were plotted using KaleidaGraph Version 3.6 Synergy Software Reading Pa. . The tumor volume was calculated with formula Tumor size mm longer measurement shorter measurement 0.5

Animal body weights were measured using an Adventurera Pro AV812 scale Ohaus Corporation Pine Brook N.J. . Graphs were generated using KaleidaGraph Version 3.6. Percent weight change was calculated using formula Group percent weight change 1 initial weight new weight 100.

Mice whose tumor volume exceeded 2000 mmor whose body weight loss was 20 of their starting weight were promptly euthanized according to regulatory guidance.

The percent tumor growth inhibition INH at the end of study EOS was calculated using formula INH 100 EOS mean volume of tumors in animals given vehicle EOS mean volume of tumors in animals given the drug EOS mean volume of tumors in animals given vehicle.

Tumor incidence TI was determined based on the number of measurable tumors remaining in each group at the end of the study. A partial response PR was defined as a 50 but 

In a 6 well tissue culture plate cells were seeded at 5 10cells per well overnight. Cells were treated with an ECof the chemotherapeutic agent. Following treatment cells were washed once with cold PBS and lysed in 1 Cell Extraction Buffer from Biosource Carlsbad Calif. supplemented with protease inhibitors Roche Mannheim Germany 1 mM PMSF and Phosphatase Inhibitor Cocktails 1 and 2 from Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Determination of protein concentration was performed using the Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit Rockford Ill. . Levels of pAkt Ser and total Akt were assessed using bead kits from Biosource Carlsbad Calif. and the Luminex Bio Plex system Bio Rad Hercules Calif. .

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

