---

title: Unsupported palladium alloy membranes and methods of making same
abstract: The invention provides support-free palladium membranes and methods of making these membranes. Single-gas testing of the unsupported foils produced hydrogen permeabilities equivalent to thicker membranes produced by cold-rolling. Defect-free films as thin as 7.2 microns can be fabricated, with ideal H/Nselectivities as high as 40,000. Homogeneous membrane compositions may also be produced using these methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044715&OS=09044715&RS=09044715
owner: Colorado School of Mines
number: 09044715
owner_city: Golden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080822
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 957 170 filed Aug. 22 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under grant number DE FG26 03NT41792 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy s NETL University Coal Research Program and grant number DE GF03 93ER14363 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy s Office of Science division of Basic Energy Sciences. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to unsupported defect free palladium and palladium alloy foils and cost effective and efficient methods of making these foils.

The recent emphasis on cleaner energy technologies has focused new attention on hydrogen as an alternative fuel especially for use in proton exchange membrane PEM fuel cells. Currently most hydrogen worldwide is produced from hydrocarbon sources such as natural gas oil and coal with only 4 originating from water electrolysis. Hydrogen produced from these sources will contain residual hydrocarbons carbon monoxide and sulfur compounds all of which can rapidly poison the PEM catalyst in concentrations as low as 10 ppm. An economic way to remove contaminants from hydrogen is therefore desirable. Membrane separation technologies have the potential to reduce operating costs minimize unit operations and lower energy consumption. Dense membranes made of palladium nickel platinum and the metallic elements in groups III V of the periodic table are able to transport hydrogen in a dissociated form and are thus capable of theoretically infinite selectivity. Palladium membranes are of particular note for their high permeability tolerance to hydrocarbon containing streams and their ability to self catalyze the Hdissociation reaction.

The commercial application of palladium membranes has been limited by several factors. Pure palladium undergoes an embrittling hydride phase transition when exposed to hydrogen at temperatures below 300 C. Furthermore it is subject to deactivation by carbon compounds at temperatures above 450 C. and irreversible poisoning by sulfur compounds. Additionally the cost of commercial palladium foils particularly those greater than 25 microns in thickness is high. Because a successful membrane requires a lifetime on the order of several years under operating conditions these concerns must be addressed.

In order to reduce poisoning and embrittlement issues palladium can be alloyed with a variety of other metallic elements. Alloy membranes have been made with such materials as Ag Au Cu Fe Ni Pt and Y. As shown in the pioneering work done by McKinley U.S. Pat. No. 3 350 845 1967 and U.S. Pat. No. 3 439 474 1969 demonstrated that certain copper and gold alloys actually have higher Hpermeability than pure palladium are unaffected by thermal cycling and have improved resistance to poisoning by hydrogen sulfide. In the case of PdCu the membrane has a sharp peak in permeability at the 40 wt Cu composition requiring precisely controlled fabrication in order to maximize hydrogen throughput.

Palladium alloys are traditionally produced by cold working which allows for highly precise composition control but requires costly equipment in order to produce foils of less than 25 microns thickness. Therefore a great deal of research has been dedicated to alternative methods of production such as electroless plating electroplating physical vapor deposition PVD and chemical vapor deposition CVD . Of these electroless plating is the most heavily researched since it requires minimal equipment no exotic precursors and can be performed on any appropriately activated surface. Alloys can be either coplated or sequentially plated and then alloyed by annealing.

In one typical fabrication strategy Pd alloy membranes are plated on porous support media in order to combine the high flux of a thin film with the mechanical strength of the support. The most common support materials are porous ceramic or sintered porous metal the latter of which typically uses an oxide layer between the support and the membrane to prevent intermetallic diffusion. Membranes with a thickness less than one micron can be produced upon these porous supports. But in some applications it is desirable to retain the intrinsic material properties of the palladium support such as composition crystal structure and gas sorption without the influences of the support.

Therefore there exists a need for free standing palladium membranes capable of selectively transporting hydrogen gas in the absence of support media while withstanding temperature and pressure cycles encountered in typical applications in which hydrogen purification membranes are used and well controlled methods of efficiently and economically producing these membranes.

The invention provides free standing palladium membranes that are thin permeable to hydrogen and durable as well as methods of making these membranes. These membranes have been tested for as long as 360 hours without observed increases in leak rates or decreases in permeability.

One embodiment is a method of forming a palladium membrane including the electroless plating of a support to form a palladium membrane on the support and removing the palladium membrane from the support to produce the free standing palladium membranes of the invention. The support is seeded with metallic palladium crystallites prior to the electroless plating and this seeding may be accomplished by contacting the support with a solution of palladium acetate in an organic solvent. The palladium acetate may be decomposed prior to the electroless plating for example by immersing the seeded support in a 3 wt solution of hydrogen peroxide for about 30 minutes. The palladium acetate may also be reduced prior to electroless plating for example by contacting the support with hydrazine after the seeding for about 20 minutes at about 50 C.

In one embodiment the support is a stainless steel support and in a preferred embodiment the support is a mirror finished stainless steel support.

In one embodiment the electroless plating includes immersing the support in a palladium plating bath and in a preferred embodiment the palladium plating bath contains no ethylenediaminetetraacetic EDTA . The electroless plating may include immersing the support in a palladium plating bath at about 50 C. and adding hydrazine to the plating bath. In a preferred embodiment the hydrazine is a 3M solution of hydrazine added to the plating solution in a 100 1 ratio of plating bath to hydrazine. In another preferred embodiment the electroless plating bath is agitated during the immersing.

The palladium film may be removed from the support by scoring the edge of the palladium film and lifting the film away from the support.

A second metal may be incorporated into or onto the palladium membrane by electroless plating of a second metal onto the palladium membrane to form a layered metal membrane before the palladium film is removed from the support. In a preferred embodiment the second metal is copper silver or gold. The additional metal membrane layers may be annealed with the palladium metal membrane prior to removing the film from the support to form a homogenous metal membrane film.

The present invention is drawn to methods of making thin palladium membranes with high hydrogen permeabilities and free of porous support media. The invention provides a novel method for the production of thin 

The fabrication methods of the present invention include electroless plating of a support to form a palladium membrane on the support followed by removal of the palladium membrane from the support to produce a free standing palladium foil membrane.

The support to be plated is first seeded with metallic palladium crystallites that catalyze the electroless plating reaction. In one embodiment this seeding is accomplished by applying a solution of palladium acetate in an organic solvent to the support. Preferably the organic solvent used is chloroform. Portions of the support that are outside the intended area of seeding are masked prior to application of the palladium acetate seed solution. The organic ligand applied to the support in the seed solution is then decomposed. In one embodiment this decomposition is accomplished by immersing the seeded support in a 3 wt solution of hydrogen peroxide. Typically the decomposition of the ligand is conducted in a 3 wt solution of hydrogen peroxide for about 30 minutes at room temperature. The treated surface may also be reduced. In one embodiment this surface reduction is performed in a dilute solution of hydrazine for about 20 minutes at about 50 C.

The support on which the membrane is plated must support the formation of the metallic palladium crystallites and may be highly polished to facilitate the removal of the palladium film that is formed through the electroless plating techniques. Preferably the support is a stainless steel support. More preferably the support is a mirror finished stainless steel support. The support may be cut into pieces that are slightly larger than the desired final membrane size and thoroughly cleaned to remove any trace contaminants. The surfaces of the support that are not intended to be seeded for electroless plating such as the unpolished areas of a mirror finished stainless steel support are masked.

After seeding the support the support is plated by immersing the activated support in a palladium plating bath. The plating typically proceeds batchwise. Preferably the plating bath contains no EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid which is a common stabilizing and complexing agent in palladium plating baths that remains in the membrane producing carbon contamination and compromising palladium membrane performance. In one preferred embodiment the plating is conducted by immersing the activated support in a palladium plating solution at about 50 C. followed by the addition of hydrazine to the plating bath. The hydrazine is preferably added as a 3M solution of hydrazine in a 100 1 ratio of plating bath to hydrazine. The bath may be agitated to prevent bubbles from adhering to the support which results in defects in the palladium film being formed.

The palladium foil formed in the electroless plating process is removed from the support to recover a thin palladium film free of the support. Palladium foil films formed on mirror finished stainless steel supports using these processes are readily removed from the support. For example simply scoring the edges of the palladium film allows the film to be lifted away from the mirror finished side of a stainless steel support.

Additional metal layers may be plated onto the palladium membranes formed in these processes by subsequent rounds of electroless plating. In this manner distinct heterogenous layers can be formed on the palladium films. Annealing of these layered metals can then be used to produce homogeneous palladium alloy compositions. Any metal that can be applied via this second electroless plating step can be used. Exemplary metals that form useful palladium alloys include copper silver and gold.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following examples which are not intended to be limiting.

Palladium membranes were synthesized on commercial mirror finished 316 stainless steel supports McMaster Carr of 0.003 thickness. The steel was cut into pieces slightly larger in area than the desired final membrane size and thoroughly cleaned with ethanol to remove trace contaminants. The unpolished side of the stainless steel was then masked and the polished side lightly airbrushed with a solution of palladium acetate in chloroform. The support was then immersed in a 3 wt solution of hydrogen peroxide for 30 minutes at room temperature to decompose the organic ligand followed by reduction in a dilute solution of hydrazine for 20 minutes at 50 C.

A palladium plating bath was used that contained no EDTA enhancing the stability of the finished product. Activating reducing and plating bath recipes are presented in Table 1. The plating was done batchwise immersing the activated support in the plating solution at 50 C. and adding 3.0 M hydrazine in a 100 1 ratio of plating bath to hydrazine. Mechanical agitation of the bath was used to prevent bubble adhesion and the resultant film defects.

The palladium foils were removed from the support by scoring the edges with a blade after which they could be readily separated from the stainless steel. Visual inspection for pinholes was performed and any samples with flaws visible to the naked eye were not permeation tested.

Copper was plated onto these palladium films via a commercial plating bath Technic CUPRO T Eco after removal from the substrate and inspection for flaws. This technique produced heterogeneous layers of palladium and copper and the resultant foils were annealed to produce homogeneous compositions.

Disc shaped samples were cut from the plated membranes and mounted in stainless steel permeation cells with graphite gaskets. 0.2 micron Mott porous stainless steel discs supported the membranes with Zircar alumina paper between the membrane and support to prevent intermetallic diffusion. This support configuration provides negligible mass transfer resistance for membranes of the thicknesses under consideration. The membranes were heated slowly under nitrogen to 673 K in order to prevent low temperature hydrogen embrittlement. Hydrogen flow and nitrogen leak rate were then measured at varying feed pressures using soap film meters leaving the permeate side at ambient pressure approximately 82 kPa at Golden Colo. altitude . If necessary the membranes were purged with air to increase hydrogen permeability. All gases used were industrial grade 99.9 purity or higher and no sweep gases were used during permeation testing. All permeation experiments performed were single gas and therefore permeabilities and selectivities do not account for real world mixture effects such as concentration polarization or competitive adsorption. When testing was completed the membranes were slowly cooled under nitrogen and characterized using scanning electron microscopy with energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDS . Phase determination of PdCu membranes was performed by X ray diffraction using monochromatic Cu K X rays with a wavelength of 1.54056 a step size of 0.05 and a count time of two seconds per step.

A single 20 minute plating cycle deposited a palladium layer with an average thickness of 1.25 microns comparable to previous results using this bath to synthesize composite membranes. Membranes which underwent 8 or more cycles equivalent to 10 microns in thickness were free from visible pinholes 100 of the time while membranes between 7 10 microns were visually defect free only 65 of the time. No membranes less than seven microns in thickness were sufficiently defect free and mechanically strong to withstand pressure testing.

SEM analysis indicates that the films produced by this technique are very dense and uniform in cross section with minimal porosity. The average thickness of a membrane was estimated by assuming a dense film and extrapolating from the weight and area of the sample. The membrane topology is strongly dependent on the surface of the membrane examined the bath side of the membrane is roughly textured with many features larger than 10 microns in diameter whereas the surface adjacent to the support is smooth and has few features except for imprints of fine scratches from the stainless steel . The high surface roughness of the bath side of the films is one advantage of the preparation methods of the present invention as it provides increased surface area on which the hydrogen dissociation reaction may take place.

Copper was applied to the palladium membrane after it was removed from the support. Because of this both sides of the membrane were coated with copper and had similar morphologies with pronounced surface features created by the plating process . Composition was estimated by weight gain upon copper plating. The desired composition for PdCu membranes was 60 Pd by weight and it was found that by varying the copper plating time the composition could be controlled to within 2 wt of this value. EDS and XRD were used on a membrane shown to have 41 wt copper by weight gain in order to confirm accuracy. The X ray diffraction pattern shown in indicates the membrane is purely in the beta BCC crystal phase at ambient temperature after complete annealing as would be expected from the phase diagram for a 41 Cu film. Quantitative EDS analysis confirmed the 41 wt copper although spot scans of the surface show as much as 3 wt variation from location to location.

The membrane was annealed in situ taking upwards of 200 hours at 673 K and under hydrogen pressure to produce homogeneous alloys. As with the pure Pd membranes the PdCu alloys require high temperature air exposure in order to maximize hydrogen permeability however the increase in permeability with air purge was slight in comparison to the non alloy films. During a test of 360 hours duration including annealing and air exposure the nitrogen leak rate did not increase significantly with the ideal H Nselectivity of the membrane being 105 5 . This does not necessarily indicate that the T Eco plating bath with its probable carbon contaminants produces stable films as the membrane was not exposed to reformate or sulfur containing streams. The fully annealed membrane had a leak corrected hydrogen permeability at 673 K of 1.33 10mol m s Pa in line with literature values for membranes of the predicted composition. The n value for the flux versus pressure gradient plot is 0.583 suggesting that there is minimal resistance to mass transfer by sorption desorption dissociation or recombination.

The foregoing description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Furthermore the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently variations and modifications commensurate with the above teachings and the skill or knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiments described hereinabove are further intended to explain the best mode known for practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular applications or uses of the present invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

