---

title: Method and computer program product for implementing automatic avatar status indicators
abstract: The exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides a means for the simulating of real world activities within a virtual environment. Information retrieved from locally executing applications (e.g., such as a screen saver, voice over IP phone system, etc.) or sensor information is utilized to deliver messages from a client application to the virtual environment in order to put an avatar in a state that visually indicates that a system user is busy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08006182&OS=08006182&RS=08006182
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08006182
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080318
---
This invention relates to avatar placement within a virtual world environment and particularly using an avatar to simulate a real world activity in a virtual world environment.

Virtual worlds are computer based simulated environments wherein environment system users inhabit a virtual environment and interact with other system users by the use of user graphical avatars that are representative of the user. Typically computer simulated virtual environments are created to be similar to real world environments. The virtual environments also can be created to abide by the rules of the real world in regard to physical laws real time communication between parties etc. Today users interacting within virtual worlds often encounter real world distractions that draw their attention away from their virtual environments e.g. such as phones ringing visitors at their front door etc. . However while the attention of the virtual world user is directed elsewhere the avatar of the user within the virtual world will appear to be fully aware but yet unresponsive to other interacting avatars. Within a virtual environment an unresponsive avatar could socially pose problems to those individuals who may try to interact with the unresponsive avatar actions that may further make the person that is associated with the avatar appear to be challenged as far as having mastered avatar control or inattentive. More importantly the display of an idle unresponsive avatar detracts from the pseudo realism that makes virtual worlds a compelling place to interact with others.

One way this problem can be handled is to have an environment recognize that a user is away e.g. similar to standby techniques utilized within instant messaging and have the avatar reflect a sleeping state. However this still does not provide any semblance of realistic qualities. A user s avatar that is talking to someone one minute and is sleeping on a virtual street the next minute provides for a clunky and not very lifelike virtual experience.

The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the provision of a method for the configuration and display of a status indicating avatar. The method comprises receiving user activity input information at a virtual world VM interface component comprised within a client VW application wherein the user activity input information can comprises information received singularly or in combination from at least one locally executing application or at least one input sensor and determining a user activity that is associated with the user activity input information the user activity being based upon hierarchical activity characteristics as specified by a user and activity characteristics that are based upon community protocols that are implemented at a target VW application.

The method also comprises mapping the determined user activity to an activity that is associated with the target VW application and transmitting a command to the target VW application in order to display an avatar in accordance with the mapped to VW activity. The mapping of a determined activity to a target VW application activity comprises determining the origin of the received activity input information prioritizing a set of response actions based upon a comparison of the activity input information to the activity characteristics that are based upon the target VW applications community protocols retrieving current avatar environment information and determining a best correlation between the user activity input information and a VW avatar activity information listing.

Computer program products corresponding to the above summarized methods are also described and claimed herein.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with advantages and features refer to the description and to the drawings.

The detailed description explains the preferred embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention is described below in detail. The disclosed embodiment is intended to be illustrative only since numerous modifications and variations therein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Aspects of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention can be implemented within a conventional computing system environment comprising hardware and software elements not shown . Specifically the methodologies of the present invention can be implemented to program a conventional computer system in order to accomplish the prescribed tasks of the present invention as described below. The software elements of the programmed computer are envisioned for purposes of clarity as executable in a main memory of a computing system but as persons skilled in the art will understand they may not in actuality reside simultaneously or in their entireties in memory.

The exemplary embodiment of the present invention comprises a solution that provides a virtual environment user the ability to select a hierarchical avatar action which best portrays a message the users want to visually convey to other virtual environment users upon the occurrence of a given event. A user is also provided with the capability to enact the automatic prioritization of response actions that enable a system user to choose and display the best response to a real world activity that is based on whether a desired response action is available or even possible to be performed within a virtual world environment. Further provided is a mapping of response actions to the locations that are related to an avatars location within a virtual environment.

Currently instant messaging systems can be configured to display a status indicator in order to notify other instant messaging system users that a user is away. Typically the use of a predetermined status indicator is displayed to system users to indicate the user is away e.g. a phone icon being displayed shows that a user is currently away on a telephone call . Instant messaging users can set their away messages to specific activities however within in a 3D virtual world it is important to create a realistic visual representation of an environments user s operational status rather than just displaying a simple text field or an icon to other system users. Thus in a virtual world if a user becomes distracted by another task then the user may want to visually display via their avatar that they are currently involved in another activity and in some instances indicate the nature of the activity that has taken the user s attention away from the virtual environment.

For example in the instance that a user starts interacting with another application on their computer rather than within the virtual world the user may configure their avatar to sit down with a laptop or sit down and read a book. Within the exemplary embodiment a virtual world activity representation does not necessarily need to match the specific real world action being taken but rather the virtual world activity representation should convey the nature of an activity in which a user is engaged. Further if a certain real world activity is not available to be represented within a virtual world activity then the next best representative response action can be chosen by a user and displayed via their avatar within the virtual environment. For example in the 3D virtual world if a default activity action is to have the avatar of a user sit down and read a book and there is no object within the environment to sit on then the next best action may be to have the avatar lean on an object and read. If there is no object to lean on then the user may have some other action that they want the avatar to perform in order to indicate the user is busy.

In another example while reading a book in a coffee shop serves as a good visual indication that a user is currently busy in the instance that the user is at a virtual football game it is unlikely and unrealistic that they would pull out a book if in the instance that the user is busy with another activity. A better activity to represent a short away status for the user would be to display the user s avatar taking a trip to a stadium s restroom or glancing through a team program.

As mentioned above within the exemplary embodiment of the present invention real world activities can be closely simulated within a virtual environment. This aspect is accomplished by the use of real world situational information that is delivered from applications e.g. screen saver applications VoIP applications etc. to the virtual environment in order to provide information that assists in putting a user s avatar in a state that visually displays to the virtual world that the user is currently engaged in another activity. Therefore a user does not have to take explicit steps to engage the real world representative avatar action in the event that the user is hastily called away to another activity.

The exemplary embodiment of the present invention accomplishes these results via the implementation of a virtual world client application that comprises a software virtual world interface module . The virtual world interface module comprises a real world activity identification component and a real world activity mapping component the real world activity mapping component being configured to map real world activities to a best suited virtual world activity . The virtual world interface module gathers events from locally executing applications driver programs within a user s computing system step . Depending on the information gathered from an application and the particular event generated at the application the state of a user s avatar is adjusted to best reflect the realities of the user s real world situation.

For instance when a user s screen saver application or is activated at their computer indicating that the user is not currently interacting with their computing system an event is then sent to the virtual world interface module . The delivered event reports that the activation of the screen saver application to the virtual world interface module . In response to the received event the virtual world interface determines that the event came from the screen saver application or and that the event was an active screen saver event step . Thereafter the virtual world interface module maps the screen saver active event to a specified displayed response action step and delivers the avatar display command to a remotely executing virtual application step to configure the user s avatar to display the selected real world response action. For example in response to the activation of the screen saver some users may select their response action to have the displayed avatar walk out of a current location and disappear another user may want their avatar to go to a virtual home while another user may elect to have their avatar sit down and appear to be asleep.

Within the exemplary embodiment of the present invention the virtual world interface module via the real world activity identification component can automatically identify the real world activity in which a user is engaged. As mentioned above this is accomplished by the virtual world interface module receiving and recognizing input from an application or and then using the retrieved application information to map to received events and thereafter determine activities to be performed by the avatar according to the user s predetermined system configuration. For example when a user answers a cell phone or VoIP call a driver program executing at the user s computing system for example software added to a user s computer system that would use a computer s Bluetooth network capabilities to determine that Bluetooth signals are sent to and from a user s head set thus implying the user is on a cell phone call detects this call event and sends the information in regard to the call event to the virtual world application via the virtual world interface module in order to configure the user s avatar to indicate the user is on a phone call.

Default actions can be conditional based upon whether in the virtual world the user s avatar is within or who else is present in the virtual location. These rules could govern which action is taken when a particular event is received. These rules are implemented in the activities list stored at the virtual world application the ordered list of rules that are to be applied until a response activity rule is found that works. There is an activities list associated with each event that is undersold within a virtual world environment. The simplest rule form includes a condition followed by an action to take should the condition be true. For example 

Some locations may choose to substitute actions as well so that an appropriate action is performed for the location. For instance the user may have a rule mapped to an event like 

If the above specified location happens to be an area used for yoga the entire floor may be considered a chair so the normal act of sitting down may be to sit on the floor. In this instance the rule OBJECTS IN VIEW.CHAR.NEAREST.DISTANCE would always answer zero. The action WalkTo would do nothing because you are already there and the action SitOn would cause the avatar to sit on the displayed floor.

Response activity categories may be hierarchically mapped to virtual world locations. For instance in a public area a default representation of the condition Short Break of a type non responsive may be to have an avatar walk to the nearest restroom. On the other hand a representation of the condition Short Break of type responsive may cause the avatar to seemingly talk on his her virtual cell phone or to read a magazine depending upon the responses comprised within the activities listing at the virtual world mapping application .

Within the exemplary embodiment the virtual world interface module is configured to receive and recognize input from an application or and sensors e.g. a motion sensor enabled to monitor a specified area in proximity to the users computing system or optical and motion sensors that are configured to operate in accordance with a networked security monitoring system and then use the retrieved information to map to events and thereafter determine activities to be performed by the avatar according to a predetermined configuration. In operation a driver program could allow a user to specify that in the instance that a screen saver application is executed and a positive indication for motion is registered in a sensor within the user s house that is directed at the area of the user s bathroom then the driver program will deliver a bathroom indicating event to the virtual world interface module . The virtual world interface module would then refer to a mapping list for what activities that are to be performed in the instance that a bathroom event is received. As a result of receiving the event that the virtual world interface module delivers directions to the virtual world application to send the user s avatar to the nearest virtual restroom if a restroom is within an given distance of the avatar. If this action is not possible then the next action in the activities list may be performed e.g. which could be for the avatar to travel behind a large object . If the detectors sense no motion at the time the screen saver is activated then the driver may send a gone away event to the virtual world interface module . The virtual world interface module would map the gone away event to the first action in the activities list that is associated with the event this action may comprise the avatar walking out of the displayed virtual worldview. If this avatar performance command cannot be performed then the next item in the activities list for a gone away event will be performed.

Within the exemplary embodiment two activity response mapping features are provided. The first activity response feature as specified above is featured in association with the virtual world client application wherein the rules that dictate which the response to real world activities specify the events that are sent to the virtual world application . The second activity response feature is comprised within the virtual world application wherein each event at the virtual world application has an activities list where attributes of the virtual world can be tested in order to select the best activity for the event. Further the user can manually set the real world activity component in the absence of an automatic trigger. For instance the user may be leaving the computer to change his her baby s diapers and manually indicates Activity Short Break Non responsive as the status.

The real world activity of a user is matched to a best suited virtual world application activity based on the criteria contained within an activity profile. An activity profile exists partly on the virtual world client application to map driver events to events understood by the virtual world application and an event action list comprised within the virtual world environment that directs the actions of a user s avatars when an event is received. For example if the virtual world interface module is sent an event from a phone system the event sent from the phone system is mapped to a call initiated event at the real world mapping component . An ordered activities lists is retrieved for the call initiated event. A first response activity rule specify having the displayed avatar answering a virtual cell phone and if the avatar has their cell phone with them this action can be performed as the user would answer their own cell phone and further have the avatar put the cell phone away when a call terminated event is received. If the user s avatar did not have a virtual cell phone then the next action in the action list will be considered.

The capabilities of the present invention can be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination thereof.

As one example one or more aspects of the present invention can be included in an article of manufacture e.g. one or more computer program products having for instance computer usable media. The media has embodied therein for instance computer readable program code means for providing and facilitating the capabilities of the present invention. The article of manufacture can be included as a part of a computer system or sold separately.

Additionally at least one program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying at least one program of instructions executable by the machine to perform the capabilities of the present invention can be provided.

The diagrams depicted herein are just examples. There may be many variations to these diagrams or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention has been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

