---

title: Location based services platform using multiple sources including a radio frequency identification data source
abstract: System and methods are provided that facilitate integrated and seamless utilization of location data generated by multiple disparate positioning technologies adequate for outdoor or indoor positioning. Location data from multiple sources is selectively processed based on rules that account for availability, accuracy, cost, reliability of location data. At least one of the multiple sources is based on radio frequency identification (RFID) technology. Rules can be operator specific or can be automatically generated based on historic location data or cost-benefit analysis. Processing of selected data includes formatting data according to a specific standard or protocol, or augmenting the data with metadata. Standardized data is conveyed through a communication link for utilization in various applications such as vendor applications for navigation or web-based services, as well as custom and development applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08073795&OS=08073795&RS=08073795
owner: Symbol Technologies, Inc.
number: 08073795
owner_city: Holtsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080107
---
The subject innovation relates generally to location based services and more particularly to a platform that delivers integrated standardized location information from multiple sources each associated with a specific technology.

Advances in communications at the device and service level have made applications reliant on location based services such as navigation systems nearly ubiquitous in modern society. Technologies typically associated with the military government and large enterprise operations are now accessible to a substantial segment of consumers in multiple markets such as transportation customer service logistics and healthcare. In view of such a market shift and proliferation of positioning services multiple positioning technologies have been developed and refined providing location data with various levels of accuracy and reliability that serve historic users as well as the newly added segments of consumers.

Such positioning technologies are generally adequate for specific environments like outdoor environments in which the technologies generally operate in open sky configurations or indoor environments which typically require specific infrastructure for the technology to deliver location data. In addition devices employed for navigation typically employ location data generated from a specific technology being commonly limited to accessing location information in exclusively outdoor environments or indoor environments. Moreover devices that utilize location information typically provide location data to specific applications commonly designed for a specific location service provider. Furthermore location information delivered by typical devices is in general bound within a predetermined accuracy degree of reliability or trust level and a cost which is usually dictated by the location service provider. Therefore there is a need in the art for the capability to utilize integrated location data in various applications the location data originated from disparate technologies within disparate accuracies and associated costs.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of one or more aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the invention nor to delineate the scope of the subject invention. Rather the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts of the innovation in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented hereinafter.

System and methods facilitate integrated and seamless utilization of location data generated by multiple disparate positioning technologies adequate for outdoor or indoor positioning. At least one of the multiple disparate positioning technologies is based on radio frequency identification RFID technology. Positioning technologies can also include satellite and earth based navigation system wireless technology as well as barcode labels. Location data is received through a technology interface and integrated in data storage. Based on rules that account for availability accuracy cost reliability of location data location data from multiple sources is selectively processed. Rules can be operator specific or can be automatically inferred based on historic location data or cost benefit analysis. Rules can be valid for a specific period of time and can depend on operator in order to allow disparate level of access to location data in cases where data is sensitive. Processing of selected data includes formatting data according to a specific standard or protocol or augmenting the data with metadata. Standardized data is conveyed through a communication link which can be wired or wireless for utilization in various applications such as vendor applications for navigation or web based services as well as custom and development applications. Development applications can include applications for location data validation and correction.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the invention then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the invention. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject invention. It may be evident however that the subject invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject invention.

As used in this application the terms component system module framework platform application and the like are intended to refer to computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . In the subject description the terms interface component and interface are employed interchangeably.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

In the subject disclosure system and methods are described that facilitate integrated and seamless utilization of location data generated by multiple disparate positioning technologies adequate for outdoor or indoor positioning. Location data from multiple sources is selectively processed based on rules that account for availability accuracy cost reliability of location data. Rules can be operator specific or can be automatically generated based on historic location data or cost benefit analysis. Processing of selected data includes formatting data according to a specific standard or protocol or augmenting the data with metadata. Standardized data is conveyed through a communication link for utilization in various applications such as vendor applications for navigation or web based services as well as custom and development applications. Details of these aspects are discussed next.

Referring now to illustrated therein is an example system that facilitates integration and utilization of location data arising from multiple technologies that facilitate generation of positioning information. A location based service platform comprising a technology interface component data storage a technology selection component and an emulation component receives location data via reverse communication link from a technology framework that includes multiple technologies which can deliver positioning data. Location data is integrated within the location based service platform . It should be appreciated that technology interface component can receive location data from the technologies through technology specific interfaces. The technologies generate the location data for outdoor and indoor positioning of an object according to the particular operational characteristics of each technology. The location data can be stored in location date store which can reside in technology framework . Location data is generally conveyed in the native format association with the technology that generates it. The object typically is user equipment stationary or wireless that receives signals from and or transmits signals to a source associated with the technology and which are employed for location determination. Location data is generally stored e.g. in data storage and processed e.g. through emulation component in location based service platform and conveyed through communication link in a standardized form e.g. standardized location data to an application component . The application component can comprise multiple vendor applications and custom applications. It should be appreciated that location data is integrated in location based service component which facilitates seamless utilization of location data from multiple sources e.g. technologies . Functionality of the components comprising location based service platform is discussed next.

Technology interface component . This component receives location data and integrates such data generally in data storage . A service provider associated with location based service platform can establish multiple technology interfaces that can receive data for multiple technologies. In an aspect technology interface component can possess functionalities associated with data reception from multiple technologies for instance it can have transceivers e.g. multiple antennas and associated electronics such as multiplexing circuitry modulation and demodulation electronics which can implement modulation demodulation protocols like OFDMA or CDMA wireless communication for multiple input multiple output operation correlator circuitry to acquire control and pilot wireless signal and so on. Alternatively or in addition technology interface component can interface with a wired technology such as inertial navigation components e.g. a gyroscope an accelerator and the associated electronic circuitry. Technology interface component can also include electronic circuitry to probe radiofrequency identification tags and to scan barcode labels.

It should be appreciated that technology interface component can be upgraded according to operator demand and cost benefit analysis. Upgrades can be also be employed as a marketing tool for the location based service platform wherein a service provider can activate specific technology interfaces for a period of time in order for an operator to test such interface and determine whether the interface meets the operator s personal and or commercial needs. In addition technology interfaces and an associated location service can be offered on pay per service terms wherein the service provider can charge a fee for the operator to access location service information within various levels of spatial resolution. It is noted that a specific interface in technology interface component can be activated via hardware through jumper combinations in a circuit board or software. Software activation can be accomplished remotely or it can be accomplished by downloading through a wired or wireless link desired interface computer executable components e.g. drivers from a website.

Data storage . Location data received via link through technology interface component is stored for further process and utilization. Typically data storage is embodied in a memory. Historical data can be aggregated to new data and such historical data can be employed to determine rules that facilitate positioning technology selection.

Technology selection component . Location data stored in data storage can be selected based upon rules which can be user specific rules as well as default initial configuration rules that can be predetermined for the location based service platform by a service provider associated with such service platform. Rules can be based at least in part on factors such as technology availability e.g. open sky access or indoor positioning accuracy and time to retrieve location data cost and reliability e.g. channel quality information or signal to interference and noise ratio SINR of positioning technologies . It is noted that one or more of such factors can be related or mutually dependent on one another e.g. accuracy of retrieved location data can be affected by SINR. Moreover rules can be valid for specific periods of time and updated according to changes in the above factors for instance an operator can determine that a first technology is to be used when SNIR is above a threshold switching to a second technology otherwise. It should be appreciated that changes in rules can be automated.

Emulation component . As discussed above location data integrated in data storage can be processed and employed by an application component . Processing is conducted by emulation component which can manipulate the integrated location data to conform to a standard format suitable for utilization in a specific application e.g. in application component . In an aspect emulation component can cast all received data in a format such as NMEA 0183 and facilitate communication of the formatted data through forward link as standardized location data . It is noted that in another aspect communication of standardized location data can be conveyed via technology interface component .

Referring to technology framework as an example one of the technologies can be a global positioning system GPS which employs satellites to communicate microwave signals to the user equipment that convey information e.g. time satellite orbits that can be utilized to compute a location of the user equipment. Another technology can include GPS augmented through WAAS inertial navigation system or dead reckoning or differential GPS. Yet another technology can be associated with a service provider of cellular radio wireless communication that provides cell identification information through control data conveyed to the user equipment. Further a technology can rely on a wireless local area network which can be deployed indoor or in specific outdoor spaces such as parking lots city parks etc. Still further a technology can deliver location data based on radiofrequency identification RFID active and passive tags as well as on barcode labels or identifiers based on linear as well as two dimensional symbologies. It should be appreciated that technologies in technology framework can be deployed in disparate environments locations. In particular in an aspect a technology e.g. technology J can reside within the location based service platform .

Upon gathering location data from various sources e.g. technologies through technology interface component and integrating such data in data storage technology selection component relies on rules to extract a specific set of location data for utilization in an application not shown . Rules can be stored in rules storage which can be embodied in a memory and as discussed above such rules can be basic generic rules or user specific rules. In one aspect of example embodiment the rules can be automatically modified or generated through artificial intelligence component . The term intelligence refers to the ability to reason or draw conclusions about e.g. infer the current or future state of a system based on existing information about the system. Artificial intelligence AI can be employed to identify a specific context or action or generate a probability distribution of specific states of a system without human intervention. Artificial intelligence relies on applying advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis cluster analysis genetic algorithm and reinforced learning to a set of available data information on the system. AI component can determine a source of location information to access typically through technology interface component or what type of location data stored in data storage is to be utilized. Such a determination can be based on rules originated from an automatic inference the rules can be stored in rules storage for temporary use or can be persisted for further use when encountering scenarios similar to that which led to inferring the rules. Rule inference can be based on cost benefit analysis e.g. accessing location information via an expensive service can result in an expeditious completion of a task such as repairing a high voltage transformer that can in turn support maintaining a high quality of service to a customer thus making the benefit outweigh the cost of accessing the location service. In another aspect in addition or alternatively to cost analysis by exploiting the functionality of a technology interface component e.g. component or AI component can search for i a technology that delivers a better service as measured by CQI data rate fix determination speed and so on or ii a more inexpensive service.

Rule inferences can also be based on historical location data or existing persisted rules. Persisted and historical information can be typically employed for machine learning either supervised or unsupervised by AI component in order to simulate human judgment when creating a rule. To that end AI component can utilize one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing automated aspects of rule generation for positioning technology selection.

In example embodiment display component acts as a human machine interface and can reside or be operatively coupled e.g. receive transmit data instructions or code snippets actuate specific operations effect changes in memories or request specific operations from a processor and so on to substantially any entity that exploits a location service based platform such as a vehicle a vessel an aircraft or a spacecraft or portable or wearable user equipment. Such display component includes a display area wherein information is rendered typically the rendered information is associated with or generated by an application such as a navigation application. As illustrated in a cartographic rendering and a facility rendering can be conveyed in display area . It should be appreciated that substantially any information generated through location data can be rendered in display area for instance scheduled tasks and patient names can be displayed for a healthcare provider or a location stamp can be presented to a logistics specialist scanning items for delivery or recovery. Additionally a toolbar can be a functional part of display component . Such a toolbar can also be rendered in a display area e.g. display area within the display component and can provide access to multiple services that can be delivered or complemented by location based service platform 1 Service selector . This functional element of toolbar can allow an operator to the select a specific positioning technology to be accessed via a technology interface component e.g. component to receive location data e.g. location data . In an aspect service selector can allow an operator to override rules for service technology selection that are employed by technology selection component .

 2 Rule editor . An operator can create or edit modify existing rules for selecting positioning technologies. Rule editor can also enable or disable utilization of AI component to infer rules in technology selection component .

 3 Transfer receive data allows to convey standardized location data to an application for example an application that resides in application component and it allows to receive location data. It should be appreciated that while a location based service platform can listen for data in an always on fashion such a feature can be disabled based on an energy preservation criterion and thus location data collection can be triggered on demand through transfer receive data .

 4 Format data . Format data can operate in conjunction with emulation component to deliver or present data in a desired format. Stored location data e.g. data stored in data storage gathered from disparate technologies can also be merged to provide a rich display of information. As an example point of reference or landmark information can be combined with GPS data to provide specific points of reference during a trip. In another example real time parking availability information in multiple parking lots in a downtown can be combined with a cartographic rendering e.g. cartographic rendering of the downtown. In yet another example traffic light information can be merged with location data and rendered in display area as support data . Furthermore validation algorithms can be employed to assess reliability of location data that is being rendered e.g. in a cartographic rendering or a facility plan . In an aspect validation algorithms can include models for location data adjustment such as ionosphere model or microwave dispersion models which can be relevant for adjusting GPS data. Other models can incorporate algorithms for multi path corrections or noise smoothing on location data e.g. location data gathered from multiple positioning technologies.

 5 Select application . Various applications which can reside in an application component e.g. application component can be launched through such functionality in toolbar . It should be appreciated that select application can launch multiple applications simultaneously which can either be executed within a processor not shown in display component or in the application component. Data associated with the selected application can be rendered as support data .

 6 Database access allows access to data storage . Such access can be utilized for database maintenance data searching validation and algorithm development and so on.

Display component can also include a translation component and an input component . Translation component can facilitate utilization of positioning technologies and interpretation of location information in various languages. For example translation component can facilitate to receive directions in a foreign country. Translation component can operate in conjunction with emulation component and format data . In an aspect input component can be embedded within display area as it can be the case when utilization of features in the toolbar can be achieved via a touch screen hardware software and firmware associated with a touch screen mode of inputting information can embody input component . In another aspect input component can include a keyboard which can include special and or programmable keys to access features in to access specific features in toolbar . In yet another aspect input component can correspond to software embedded in a computer readable medium e.g. stored in a memory like data storage in location based service platform or in application component for editing rules for technology selection entering information or requests for information through voice commands. In a further aspect input component can include a biometric input sub component that can introduce a security feature to input component . For example in circumstances that location of classified entities e.g. weapons biological agents toxic substances radioactive fuel etc. or personnel such as secret service operatives or military troops and equipment is handled e.g. transported serviced supported logistically and so on biometrics verification can ensure authorized personnel can have access to features accessible through toolbar and compatible with the personnel member level of clearance.

Standardized data is received through communication forward link in a port . In an aspect such port can be a serial port such as a USB port an RS 232 port a DB25 port a parallel port or an internal COM port. Application component can include multiple applications that can be executed locally within the application component or remotely by a processor not shown . In an aspect an application can be a navigation application that delivers a fix to an operator of a location based service platform. In another aspect an application can utilize standardized location data as a part of a specific positioning module within the application. An application cab be a vendor application that utilizes a specific data format a custom application which can be an application programming interface that relies on metadata generated during processing location information or a development application that can employ location data as a reference to develop validation algorithm or correction models for specific location services or positioning technologies.

Additionally in indoor environments RFID tag technology which can be mounted in a fix location in a floor wall or roof or environment furniture e.g. a shelf can convey positioning information that can be probed with an RFID scanner. In an aspect such tags can be RFID active tags that are powered by a battery or a solar energy cell depending on the location of the tag. In another aspect an RFID tag can deliver location information when energized by an RFID probe instrument. RFID tag technology can deliver position information that can be static e.g. position of an object in a facility area a warehouse an office and so on . However when combined with wireless technology data contained in the RFID tag can be updated through wireless technology and thus can provide dynamic positioning information e.g. navigation . Alternatively or additionally fix mounted RFID tags can possess the most accurate location data and enhance less accurate positioning technologies like technologies while being scanned. It should be appreciated that temporal information such as a lifetime to specify how long a scan can be expected to deliver valid location information can be necessary and thus delivered by RFID or barcode technologies.

It is noted that complementary to wireless and RFID technologies location data can be extracted from barcode technology. Linear and two dimensional symbologies can provide rich data associated with static information in a specific facility.

In an aspect door to door directions can be paperless and can be emailed to a handheld terminal wherein location based service platform resides. Directions can be conveyed to multiple portable as well as wearable devices such as smart glasses ear pieces watches and the like. Based on the directions a specific route encompassing multiple length scales is devised. According to length scales location based service platform via a technology selection component or component can select a specific service that utilizes a specific technology to receive location data. It should be appreciated that a service can rely on one or more technologies e.g. technology to deliver location data. In diagram within inter city length scale a service that utilized technology P can be accessed. Upon a change in length scale as a consequence of approaching or having reached a destination city a second service can be employed and such service can be based on technology Q . It should be appreciated that such service transition is seamless to an operator as a technology interface component can receive location data from multiple positioning technologies and a rule based selection can automatically determine a change from service to service . Similarly a transition from service to service takes place wherein service can employ technology R . In diagram as the location of destination B is further approached location based service platform can seamlessly change to a service and technology S that can provide location data within an outdoor and indoor environment. In an aspect service can deliver location data associated with complementary services such as a parking butler or virtual valet which can lead an operator seeking destination B to an empty parking spot in a parking lot including having a parking fee debited directly from a credit card or bank account of the operator.

As a precise location associated with destination B is reached a still further seamless switch to an indoor service and technology T is seamlessly effected by location based service platform . As destination B is searched within a facility a facility plan can be displayed in a display component associated with platform . Vendor application can also augment or enrich location data with available information associated with the facility such as names of enterprises that occupy the facility and office occupant names. A further level of data supplementation can include accessing an updated schedule of the person associated with destination B . As technology T can provide with a resolution of a meter a door to door trip can be accomplished reaching destination B .

In view of the example systems presented and described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. It is to be appreciated that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

At act a location information from one or more of the location services is selected. Such location information is selected based on a set of rules which can be basic rules established by a service provider that manages the location based service platform or the set of rules can be operator specific rules. In an aspect rules can be valid for specific periods of time or rules can be different based on the operator that is accessing the location information.

At act the location information or data is processed. Processing can typically include formatting the data according to a specific format standard or protocol such as NMEA 0183 format. Moreover processing can include merging location data from multiple sources or location services or it cab comprise merging location data with supplemental data in order to provide an operator with a richer experience during manipulation and exploitation of the location data through a display component e.g. display component . In an example an operator can be a mail delivery associate that is delivering a door to door package in a facility that the associate is not familiar with in such instance a plan of the facility can complement location information associated with directions available to the associate to improve the associate s efficiency and deliver superior service. It should be appreciated that the presentation of the augmented or enriched data can be delivered to a display component carried by the associate and upon demand from the associate either as a free service or a fee based service. In another aspect troops in a battlefield can receive augmented location data with enemy positions in addition to landscape survey details and other cartographic aspects of the battlefield. Troops can receive the augmented data in a wearable display component e.g. in an embedded display in operation goggles or in a helmet mounted display. In yet another example hunters can receive augmented location data displaying accurate location information of fellow hunters for accident prevention. Furthermore data processing can include adjusting location data to metadata for utilization in specific applications such as a webpage generation or other web based applications or for incorporation into source code of applications such as custom navigation applications. In an example metadata can be employed to annotate location data in specific applications.

At act the processed location information is delivered to an application. The application can be a vendor application that utilizes a specific data format an custom application or an application programmer interface that relies on metadata generated during processing location information e.g. at act or a development application that can employ location data as a reference to develop validation algorithm or correction models for specific location services or positioning technologies.

At act location information is received from the selected positioning technology. Such information e.g. location data can be received through a communication link e.g. reverse link which can be a wired link or a wireless link. The integrity of the data with respect to satisfying the originating rule can be validated at act . In case the rule is satisfied further location information is received employing the selected technology. In case the rule is not satisfied an inference or suggestion for a positioning technology that can deliver location data according to the rule is received in act . Such inference or suggestion can originate in an artificial intelligent component e.g. AI component in a technology selection component . At act the suggestion is evaluated such evaluation can be conducted by an operator or it can be performed automatically by an evaluation component not shown in the location based service platform e.g. platform . Act is a validation act wherein the suggestion can be accepted and the positioning technology is selected or the suggestion is rejected and a new inference is received by redirecting the method flow to act .

Compact handheld location service based platform includes a housing which can be constructed from a high strength plastic metal or any other suitable material. Location service based platform is wireless and portable and includes a display component that can render location data collected from multiple positioning technologies e.g. technology . Additionally display can present functionalities to display and manipulate specific location data to communicate the location data to an application component e.g. application component which can be a stationary of portable device as well as other information such as rules to select location data associated with a specific technology location data existing in a database cartographic renderings of the existing location data and the like. It should be appreciated that the various functionalities that can be accessed through display component can be executed via a processor not shown by location based service platform . In an aspect the display can provide for a touch screen interface that can employ capacitive resistive touch infrared surface acoustic wave or grounded acoustic wave technology.

An input component embodied in a keypad which can employ a varying surface and a raised grip protrusion to facilitate utilization of the handheld location based service platform in the field e.g. during transportation of object bins such as . In particular the raised grip protrusion facilitates holding location based service platform in a secure position. The keypad can include a top cover and a bottom cover that can be over molded around a common boundary. In an aspect the top cover and the bottom cover can sandwich a plurality of associated keypad components e.g. flex members electroluminous panel a silicone membrane with a plurality of keys thereupon printed circuit boards LEDs and the like . The common boundary can be formed by a surface area and or line perimeter common to the top cover and the bottom cover e.g. a contact surface between top and bottom cover a surface encapsulating the keypad components edges of the stacked components and the like. Typically materials employed for fabricating the keypad s top cover and bottom cover can include various types of polycarbonates thermoset plastics thermoformed plastic and typically material that are capable of over molding to provide a suitable bondage between the top cover and the bottom cover. Moreover the top cover can be fabricated with a transparent quality to provide for visual notification by illuminating a certain color or brightness on the keypad surface when for example a particular key has been actuated. An audio herald alone or in combination with visual indicia can be employed for indicating an operator that a particular item e.g. item has been singulated.

The compact handheld location based service platform can also include a magnetic strip reader or other data capture mechanism e.g. a signature and or biometric feature capture pad not shown such as an infrared wireless interface a USB port an RS 232 port a COM port and the like.

With respect to a schematic representation according to one aspect of the subject invention is shown in which a processor is responsible for controlling the general operation of a handheld terminal that can be utilized as a handheld location based service platform. The processor is programmed to control and operate the various components within the handheld terminal in order to carry out the various functions described herein. The processor or CPU can be any of a plurality of suitable processors. The manner in which the processor can be programmed to carry out the functions relating to the subject invention will be readily apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art based on the description provided herein.

A memory tied to the processor is also included in the handheld terminal and serves to store program code executed by the processor for carrying out operating functions of the handheld terminal as described herein. The memory also serves as a storage medium for temporarily storing information such as user defined functions and the like. The memory is adapted to store a complete set of the information to be displayed. According to one aspect the memory has sufficient capacity to store multiple sets of information and the processor could include a program for alternating or cycling between various sets of display information.

A display is coupled to the processor via a display driver system . The display can be a liquid crystal display LCD or the like or a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display. Display functions to display data or other information e.g. toolbar relating to specific aspects of operation described herein e.g. with respect to a location based service platform such as platform as well as ordinary operation of a handheld terminal . For example the display may display navigation information available positioning technologies and services and the like which are displayed to an operator and may be transmitted over a communication link e.g. link to an application such as an application or .

Additionally the display may display a variety of functions that control the execution of the handheld terminal . The display is capable of displaying both alphanumeric and graphical characters. Power is provided to the processor and other components forming the handheld terminal by at least one battery . In the event that the battery s fails or becomes disconnected from handheld terminal a supplemental power source can be employed to provide power to the processor . For example a thin film solar cell panel can embody such supplemental power source such thin film can coat a portion of the surface of the device. The handheld terminal can enter a minimum current draw of sleep mode upon detection of a battery failure.

The handheld terminal includes a communication subsystem that includes a data communication port which is employed to interface the processor with the network via the host computer. The handheld terminal also optionally includes an RF section connected to the processor . The RF section includes an RF receiver which can receive RF transmissions from the network for example via RL or and a set of antennas and demodulate the signal to obtain digital information modulated therein. The RF section also includes an RF transmitter for transmitting information to a computer on the network for example in response to an operator input at a operator input device e.g. keypad touch screen or the completion of a transaction. Peripheral devices such as a printer signature biometrics pad magnetic strip reader and data capture device can also be coupled to the handheld terminal through the processor . The handheld terminal can also include a tamper resistant grid to provide for secure payment transactions. If the handheld terminal is employed as payment terminal it can be loaded with a special operating system. Moreover if the handheld terminal is employed as a general purpose terminal it can be loaded with a general purpose operating system.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other computer readable media for storing information. The term computer readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to a classical architecture or a quantum computer. Classical architecture comprises but is not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Quantum computer architecture may be based on qubits embodied in gated or self assembled quantum dots nuclear magnetic resonance platforms superconducting Josephson junctions etc. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Furthermore in the subject specification the term memory refers to data stores algorithm stores and other information stores such as but not limited to image store digital music and video store charts and databases. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems and or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to certain illustrated aspects it will be appreciated that equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices circuits systems etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the invention.

In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including possess possessing and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

