---

title: Wireless acoustic-electric feed-through for power and signal transmission
abstract: An embodiment provides electrical energy from a source on one side of a medium to a load on the other side of the medium, the embodiment including a first piezoelectric to generate acoustic energy in response to electrical energy from the source, and a second piezoelectric to convert the received acoustic energy to electrical energy used by the load. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07902943&OS=07902943&RS=07902943
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 07902943
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080410
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 926 001 filed 23 Apr. 2007.

The invention claimed herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Piezoelectric transducers may be used to transmit electrical energy through various acoustic mediums such as for example a metal wall. Electrical energy is converted into acoustic energy which propagates through the medium which is then converted back into electrical energy at the receiving side of the system. Applications may include charging batteries and devices that operate in sealed or closed containers for example. It is desirable for electrical energy to be provided from source to destination in an efficient manner utilizing piezoelectric transducers and to provide transducers which may easily couple to an acoustic medium.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Components and comprise piezoelectric material such as for example PZT lead zirconium titanate . Component represents a backing or substrate material adjacent to one face of piezoelectric . Similarly component represents a backing or substrate material adjacent to one face of piezoelectric . Components and represent acoustic matching transformers. These transformers may be used if it is desired to match the acoustic impedance of the piezoelectric material to medium . Some embodiments may not include transformers or .

Component represents material by which the transmitter comprising components and may be placed in acoustic contact with medium . Similarly component represents material by which the receiver comprising components and may be placed in acoustic contact with medium .

For some embodiments components or may represent bonding material by which the transmitter or receiver may be bonded to medium . For some embodiments components or may represent other types of material by which the transmitter or receiver may be placed in acoustic contact with medium . For example material may be magnetic material bonded or attached to the transmitter where medium or at least a part of medium is also magnetic e.g. paramagnetic or ferromagnetic so that the transmitter is easily placed in acoustic contact with medium by simply hand placing the transmitter next to medium . For example material may be a magnet. Similar remarks also apply to component and the receiver. Some embodiments may not include components or .

In the above discussion the components on the left hand side of medium were referred to as a transmitter and the components on the right hand side of medium were referred to as a receiver. However as discussed previously the system illustrated in may be used to transmit electrical energy in the other direction by switching in a source in place of load and by switching in a load in place of source . Accordingly use of the term transmitter in reference to the various components on the left hand side of medium is not meant to imply that these components may serve only as a transmitter for they also may serve as a receiver. Similar remarks apply to the components on the right hand side of medium . The terms transmitter and receiver are used merely for convenience and later in this description these components may be referred to as a transceiver to indicate their dual function as either a transmitter or a receiver.

In the diagram of source is connected to piezoelectric by way of wires or electrical ports and and load is connected to piezoelectric by way of wires or electrical ports and . As discussed above source may represent a source of electrical power to load or as an information source for providing data to load . Accordingly electrical ports and as well as electrical ports and may be suitable for providing or receiving electrical power or data signals depending upon the application of the embodiment.

As is well known piezoelectric materials generate an electric potential and response to mechanical stress. In operation piezoelectric expands and contracts undergoes varying mechanical stresses in response to electrical energy provided by source which causes an acoustic wave to propagate through medium . This acoustic wave causes expansion and contraction varying mechanical stresses of piezoelectric . In turn piezoelectric generates a voltage at electrical ports and in response to its varying mechanical stresses. In this way electrical energy may be viewed as being converted into acoustic energy and then back again into electrical energy so that electrical energy is effectively provided from source to load .

For reference an XYZ coordinate system is illustrated in indicating that the positive x axis points into the page of the drawing. In many applications it is desirable for most of the acoustic energy to propagate in the z axis direction The acoustic energy that travels in a direction radial to the z axis in an x y plane represents energy that may be lost. For example Lamb waves are surface waves that propagate in a direction radial to the z axis. Some embodiments include one or more components so as to provide a surface discontinuity on one or more faces of medium to reflect the Lamb waves back to the transmitter or receiver. For example a ring may be placed on medium surrounding the transmitter to reflect surface waves back to the transmitter. As another example a notch may be formed into medium where the notch surrounds the transmitter so as to provide a surface discontinuity resulting in reflection of the surface waves back to the transmitter. Similar remarks apply to the receive side of the embodiment of .

As a particular example a reflector is represented in by labels and and another reflector is represented by labels and . Because much of the illustration in represents a slice of an embodiment where the slice is perpendicular to the x axis direction parallel to the y z plane it should be noted that for the embodiment of labels and refer to a cross sectional view or slice of a single surface wave reflector on the side of medium facing the transmitter. Similarly labels and refer to a cross sectional view or slice of a single surface wave reflector on the side of medium facing the receiver. Some embodiments may not include one or both of these surface wave reflectors.

Some embodiments may place the transmitter or receiver into acoustic contact with medium by way of mechanical fasteners. represents a particular embodiment in which the fastener on a transmitter mechanically couples to a surface wave reflector. For ease of illustration illustrates only a single transmitter or receiver where components in are labeled with the same numerals as their corresponding components in . In numerals and are cross sectional slices of a surface wave reflector formed on acoustic medium . One may imagine that this surface wave reflector is cylindrical in form with a notch formed into the surface wave reflector as indicated by labels and . Numerals and label a cross sectional slice of a mechanical mating structure formed on backing . This structure is formed to fit into the notch indicated by labels and so that the transmitter or receiver is securely held in place next to medium with acoustic transformer in contact with medium . The structure indicated by labels and may comprise a flexible material so that a tab indicated by labels and fits into the notch and as the structure is pushed onto and over the surface wave reflector. An embodiment such as may be of use in which medium is not sufficiently magnetic to allow the use of magnetic material as a way to attach the transmitter or receiver to medium .

In some applications particularly high power applications some embodiments pre stress the piezoelectric material which for some embodiments is found to reduce drive impedance so as to increase power delivery efficiency. Furthermore pre stressing the piezoelectric material may also help keep the piezoelectric material under compression so as to avoid fracture during high power activation. illustrate a perspective view of an embodiment in which the piezoelectric material for the transmitter and receiver are pre stressed where components in are labeled with the same numerals as their corresponding components in the previous figures.

In label referrers to a surface wave reflector connected to medium . illustrates a cut away view of . Component is formed on a surface of medium so that bolt screws into component to pre stress piezoelectric material . Similarly component is formed on a second surface of medium so that bolt screws into component to pre stress piezoelectric material . An embodiment similar to may also include one or more an acoustic transformers.

The efficiency of providing electrical power to load depends on the frequency of the electrical signal provided by source . It is expected that many embodiments may be modeled by a transfer function relating the output signal at output ports and to the input signal at input ports and . Although the use of a transfer function may imply that the system response of an embodiment may be modeled as linear and time invariant this is only an approximation and some embodiments may exhibit nonlinearities as well as time varying system parameters.

Some are all of the circuit impedances denoted in may represent frequency dependent impedances. For many embodiments it is found that the input admittance exhibits resonances. This also results in the power inefficiency exhibiting resonances in the frequency domain. illustrates system admittance actually the magnitude of the admittance as a function of frequency for an embodiment where the load is modeled as having a real valued impedance of 20 . Note the peaks in the admittance function in at various frequencies denoting resonances of the system transfer function.

Some embodiments utilize the system resonances for the transmission and reception of electrical power and information signals. illustrates at the system level an embodiment for transmitting and receiving electrical power or information signals. Transceiver modules and include various piezoelectric layers and other layers such as for example acoustic transformers and bonding material as described with respect to but for simplicity such sub components are not explicitly illustrated in . Controls circuits and allow for the transmission and reception of electrical power data information or both. Sources and represent components that provide data that is to be transmitted. Loads and represent components that receive data signals or receive electrical power.

As a particular example the components on the right hand side of medium in may represent a consumer electronic device that includes a rechargeable battery as well as a memory module for storing firmware or data that is used or generated by the device and the components on the left hand side of medium may represent a smart charging and data exchange circuit to charge the battery and to send or receive data to or from the electronic device. For this particular example component is a power circuit to provide direct current charging of a rechargeable battery. During charging control circuit couples the output of transceiver to power circuit so that the AC alternating current electrical power generated by transceiver in response to the acoustic wave generated by transceiver is provided to power circuit . Within this context source provides the electrical energy that is used to recharge the battery where control circuit couples source to transceiver so that electrical energy is converted into acoustic energy. To increase power efficiency the power may be concentrated among one or more frequencies exhibiting high resonance.

Continuing with this particular example of a consumer electronic device there may be instances in which data is to be transmitted from the electronic device to the smart charging and data exchange circuit on the left hand side of medium . In this particular example of a data transfer mode control circuit de couples power circuit from the output of transceiver and couples source to transceiver . Source provides an information signal to transceiver . In this data transfer mode control circuit decouples source from transceiver and couples component to the output of transceiver . Within this context component may represent a receive circuit for receiving the information signal provided by source .

The transmission of data may take advantage of the various resonant frequencies of the system as illustrated in the admittance plot of . Of course data transmission may also flow from a smart charging and data exchange circuit on the left hand side of medium to the device on the right hand side of medium where now source is the source of the information signal transmitted across medium by way of acoustic vibrations and load is the receiver of the information signal. As when the data information flow is from the right hand side of medium to the left hand side of medium the communication of data from the left hand side to the right hand side of medium may take advantage of the resonant frequencies of the system.

The signal processing flow for the above described embodiment may be illustrated as shown in where for simplicity only one way communication is illustrated but where of course the communication channel may be operated in both directions. In a block of digital data to be transmitted may be represented by a vector x x . . . x of N digital data symbols x which may be taken as binary digits for many practical applications. Suppose there are M resonant frequencies or harmonics . . . over which data is to be transmitted. Source or provides a mapping from this block of digital data to a block of channel symbols a a . . . a indicated in where each channel symbol aModulates the resonant frequency or harmonic sinusoid sin t where is some phase . This modulation may be viewed as being performed by a source or to provide the signal

The electrical drive signal is converted into acoustic energy propagated through medium whereupon it is converted back into an electrical signal by transceiver . Receiver module or may be viewed as performing demodulation to provide the received vector of channel symbols . . . and performing decoding to provide the received data vector circumflex over x circumflex over x . . . circumflex over x where is an estimate of the channel symbol a and circumflex over x is an estimate of the data symbol x. For the embodiment in a set of bandpass filters each tuned to one of the resonant frequencies provides channel symbol estimates . . . and a decoding algorithm is used to provide data estimates circumflex over x circumflex over x . . . circumflex over x .

The above described embodiment is merely one example of a signal processing system. More generally the various resonant harmonics may be viewed as providing a signal constellation space where during transmission the data symbols are mapped into a transmitted signal in the signal constellation space and the receiver estimates the data symbols based upon the received electrical signal. Furthermore the encoding of data symbols may employ convolutional codes instead of block codes and for some embodiments the coding may be nonlinear. Generally any signal processing communication scheme may be employed that is suited to a signal constellation space based upon the various system resonant frequencies harmonics .

The data that is transmitted or received may represent software firmware or data indicative of measurements or system parameters for example. Various communication protocols may be used for the exchange of data as well as for the delivery of electrical power. For the example of recharging a battery in a consumer electronic device there first may be an exchange of data to provide information to the smart charging and data exchange circuit about the battery condition and the charging may be interrupted at various predetermined times to exchange data as to the current charge level of the battery so that there is proper charging of the battery.

Various changes and modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below.

