---

title: Interactive ticker
abstract: Ticker functionality provides filtering and displaying information relevant to a user. The ticker can be employed to parse information from a broadcast stream and insert the information into a ticker display area. The information presented in the display area can be animated in order to maximize and control the amount of information available to the user. The information offered in the ticker is interactive so that it allows the user to customize this abbreviated data and how the data is presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799801&OS=08799801&RS=08799801
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08799801
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080116
---
The following description relates generally to content distribution systems and more particularly to content delivery and content receipt over a digital broadcast network.

A digital broadcast network is a one way delivery method to client side software located on a user device. Datacast services provide data over a digital broadcast network to be used by the client side software. The data provides a user experience through the client software associated with the datacast service.

Many devices have a small screen format that presents a challenge to offering data intensive services. Linear entertainment based services are easily offered with platform capabilities but there is difficulty in offering an optimized user experience within the context of a service that consists of large amounts of data. An example is a sports based service which might consist of a dozen or more sports only some of which are of interest to any single user. Therefore the challenge continues to be how to present relevant information within the limits of a small screen format when there is a large amount of possibly interesting data.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with functionality for filtering and displaying information relevant to a user e.g. recipient of a datacast service. The functionality parses information from a broadcast stream and inserts the information into a display area. The information pulled from the stream can be selected or requested by a user through a filtering mechanism. The information offered can become interactive to a degree that it allows the user to customize this abbreviated data and how it is presented such as in a dedicated area of the screen which can include animated information.

An aspect relates to a method for rendering information from a micro channel. The method includes rendering markers that are respectively associated with micro channels on a multicast stream of data in a predetermined area of a display. The method further includes receiving a user selection for a first marker and employing the markers to access respective micro channels. The information contained in the respective micro channel can be displayed in a dedicated display area.

In a related aspect is a device for rendering information from a micro channel. The device includes a computer platform having a memory and a processor wherein the memory stores information related to decisions made by the processor. Also included is a data formatter that assigns markers that are respectively associated with micro channels on a multicast stream. The device further includes a display module that displays the markers in a predetermined area of a display and a selector module that receives a user selection. Further included is a rendering module that employs the markers to access respective micro channels wherein the display module displays information contained in the respective micro channel in the dedicated area of the display.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus for selectively rendering information from a micro channel. The apparatus includes a means for rendering markers that are respectively associated with micro channels on a multicast stream of data and a means for receiving a user selection for a first marker. Also included in the apparatus is a means for employing the markers to access respective micro channels and a means for displaying information contained in the respective micro channel in a dedicated display area.

In a wireless communication system a related aspect is an apparatus that includes a processor. The processor is configured to render markers that are respectively associated with micro channels on a multicast stream of data. The processor can further be configured to receive a user selection for a first marker and employ the first marker to access a respective micro channel. Information contained in the respective micro channel can be displayed in a dedicated display area.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspects s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various embodiments are described herein in connection with a wireless terminal. A wireless terminal can also be called a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal client client device wireless communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability computing device or other processing device connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various embodiments are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point Node B or some other terminology.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules and or may not include all of the devices components modules discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to illustrated is a system that enables selective delivery and selective acceptance of content which can be presented in an animated and interactive manner on one or more wireless devices . System can include one or more content providers operable to provide one more pieces of content to distribution system such as through a first network . Distribution system is operable to deliver one or more multicast streams of content along with one or more content metadata associated with each multicast stream of content to the one or more wireless devices . Such content can be delivered as individual streams of data wherein a complete content set can include multiple streams of data. For example distribution system may include a transmitter and or the second network wherein transmitter is operable to generate a one to many transmission of content and or content metadata for delivery to one or more wireless devices through second network . The content and or content metadata can be divided or partitioned into multiple streams or multiple channels and one or more of the channels can be selectively received and combined if more than one is selected for presentation at a respective wireless device .

Upon accessing transmission each wireless device is operable to execute a channel selector which can be configured to determine selected ones of the one or more channels of content in transmission to download to wireless device based on one or more selection parameters within a selection database . Selection parameters may include but are not limited to data such as one or more content filters e.g. relevant information contained in a stream one or more data representing user information e.g. preferences and or one or more data representing device information e.g. capabilities limitations display size audio functionality . Selection parameters can be unique to and or customized for each respective wireless device and or each respective user of each wireless device . As such in some aspects each wireless device may download a different set of one or more streams of content within the same transmission . Thus in some aspects one or more selection parameters allow channel selector to download one or more selected streams of content of interest to a respective user of the respective wireless device based on a match between one or more of the respective content metadata and one or more of the selection parameters .

Further for example in aspects where selected content comprises a real time or live content channel selector may forward selected content to a media module for presentation through an output device . In other aspects for example where selected content comprises a non real time content channel selector may forward selected content to be cached or saved in a content storage . In the non real time case media module is operable to access content storage at any time to retrieve and cause a presentation through output device of the selected content .

Output device in combination with media module is operable to generate selected content as a program or presentation for consumption by a user of wireless device . Each program or presentation may comprise a combination of one or more streams of selected content labeled Stream through Stream where N is an integer or might comprise a single stream of content. The streams of content can be associated with one more of the content metadata corresponding to each stream .

In accordance with some aspects output device can present an interactive ticker and related information in a dedicated display area. The interactive ticker can include data from one or multiple streams of data. As the ticker is presented a user can select e.g. click on one or more items from the ticker. The selected item can be automatically matched to related content such as through a tag associated with each item that can be selected from the ticker. The tag can include a pointer or a locating means for readily accessing the information related to the selected item which can be output in a readily perceivable format. The ticker and the output information can be presented in a dedicated section on a screen to allow the user to perceive a primary experience e.g. application while also viewing the ticker and or output information at substantially the same time. As such a user is presented relevant information within the limits of a small screen format.

In accordance with some aspects first network and second network provide respective communication links between the various components and or entities of system . In some aspects first network and second network may comprise independent networks while in other aspects they may comprise inter related networks. Generally first network and second network each may comprise any one or any combination of one or more data networks and or one or more communications networks. For example in some aspects first network may comprise a public communications network such as the Internet and second network may comprise a subscription based one to many network such as a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLO System available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In other aspects first network and second network may include one or a combination of other networks such as a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of first network and or second network include one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier IX radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the content of . Content as used herein may comprise but is not limited to at least one of video audio multimedia content real time content non real time content also referred to as clips scripts programs scheduled downloads updates both time sensitive and non time sensitive or any other type of data or object operable to be distributed to and executed or presented by wireless device . For example content may include one or any combination of subscribed to programming ad hoc and or on demand received programming and or advertising or any other form of content added to inserted within and or presented simultaneously with or in place of other content. Additionally for example content may comprise but is not limited to a television show a video a movie a song interactive data such as World Wide Web pages and links and so forth. Further content may comprise a unique content identifier ID such as one or any combination of a letter a number a name a file name a file path and so on associated with the respective piece of content.

Additionally at least one of the multitude of content is associated with one or more content metadata . For instance one or more of the content suppliers may define the respective content metadata and associate the content metadata with the respective content. As used herein the term content supplier may include one or any combination of a content provider such as content provider a content retailer a billing and customer service provider and a media distributor such as distribution system or other providers. Content metadata comprises any data that describes and or is associated with each respective piece of content . For example content metadata may comprise but is not limited to one or any combination of content ID and one or more content attributes such as a category a name a content length a content type associated stream indicator a code an identifier a theme a genre an intended audience and or market a script a content filter identifier a cuing protocol parameter a related audience and or market and or any metadata relating to the corresponding content. One or more content metadata may be separate from attached to or embedded within the respective content . In some aspects for example when content and content metadata are separate they each may comprise or point to the same content ID for example to enable the respective content metadata to be related to the respective content.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the transmission of a multitude of streams of the multitude of content of . Transmission may provide one or more channels or services of content and content metadata to each wireless device for consumption by a respective end user. In some aspects for example each transmission may comprise a one to many transmission in a Forward Link Only FLO system such as the MediaFLO system available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In such a system transmission comprises a flow or a logical stream within a multiplex which is a set of flows available in a given geographical area. Further each channel service and or stream carried by transmission can include ticker information. In accordance with some aspects the ticker information is provided on a single channel or on multiple channels.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of components including an advertiser of the system of . In some aspects because the presentation of each service channel and or stream hereinafter referred to as channel carried by transmission may attract a large number of end users or consumers system may further include one or more advertisers in communication with distribution system . Advertiser comprises an entity desiring to present one more pieces of content within a channel in the form of one or more advertisements to selected end users . For example in this aspect a first channel may comprise but is not limited to an advertisement.

It should be noted that although wireless devices may be illustrated as cellular telephones any number and combination of types of wireless devices may be included in system of . For example wireless device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a laptop computer a two way pager a portable gaming device a portable music device or any type of computerized wireless device. The disclosed aspects can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Computer platform is operable to transmit data across a network such as first network and or second network and is operable to receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data generated within wireless device or received from any network device or other computer device connected to the network or connected to wireless device . Computer platform may be embodied in for example one or any combination of hardware firmware software data and executable instructions.

Memory may comprise one or any combination of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards flash memory cells an electronic file system and any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more of any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms.

Further processor may be one or more of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. In some aspects processor or other processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs stored in memory of wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of wireless device on network of . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with distribution system and or other networked devices. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone for example processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services vocoder messaging graphics USB multimedia etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform that enable the functionality described herein. For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of channel selector .

Further communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof and is operable to enable communications among the various components of wireless device as well as between wireless device and first network and or second network . For example in cellular telephone aspects communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof including transmit and receive chain components for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Further for example communication module is operable to receive the plurality of content which can include a ticker application and the associated respective one or more content metadata if any from distribution system and forward them to data formatter or provide data formatter with access to them. Similarly for example communication module is operable to receive the one or more selection parameters and either forward them to data formatter or provide data formatter with access to them. Subsequently for example communications module is operable to forward the selected content respectively to other device components for further processing.

Additionally one or more input devices for generating inputs into wireless device and one or more output devices for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device are provided. For example input device may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a navigation mechanism a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input device provides an interface for receiving user input such as to activate or interact with an application or module on the wireless device. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Further user interface may comprise one or any combination of input devices and or output devices .

With reference now to illustrated is a block diagram of an example system for selective filtering and rendering of an interactive ticker. System can be configured to parse information from a broadcast stream and insert the parsed information into a ticker display area. The information offered in the ticker can be interactive providing the user the ability to customize both the data and how that data is rendered within the display area.

In further detail system includes a transmitter that is in wireless communication with a receiver . Transmitter can be configured to transmit multicast streams wherein at least one of the streams can be dedicated and provisioned for ticker functionality. In accordance with some aspects the ticker information is included on a single multicast stream whereby user interactivity involves opening up a single data stream and or micro channels associated with that single data stream. In accordance with other aspects the ticker information is provided on different multicast streams.

To facilitate selective acceptance and rendering of ticker information receiver includes a selector module that can be configured to receive an instruction relating to information that is of interest to the user. The instruction can include a selection of an item included in a ticker. For example a user can perceive a first application and a ticker can be displayed in a small section of the display area. A user can be viewing the first application and might also be monitoring the ticker.

Through interaction with the selector module the user can easily navigate though the ticker information and then if desired drill into specific content within the micro channel. Thus when an item of interest is perceived in the ticker the user can select that item so that further information relating to that item is presented. In accordance with one aspect the user can selectively navigate the ticker information until desired content is received. For example a sports ticker can display information relating to different sports e.g. football baseball soccer swimming tennis golf and so forth . A user might be interested in the baseball scores and can fast forward through the ticker information until the desired sport e.g. baseball is reached. When the user stops fast forwarding the scores for each baseball game are automatically displayed in a ticker display area. If desired the user can drill down into more information relating to that game e.g. player statistics player information and so forth .

In accordance with another aspect the user can skip though the scores until the score for a desired game is located. If additional information is desired the user can select e.g. voice command push button selection on the screen and so forth the desired additional information. For example once the user perceives the score for the desired game the user can select that score for additional information that can be displayed as a full screen readout of the entire game e.g. details statistics players and so forth .

To facilitate rendering the desired information a data formatter can be configured to selectively tag information within a multicast stream of data received from transmitter . Each tag can represent a micro channel within a single multicast stream of data or within different multicast streams of data. The tag can associate at least a portion of the multicast stream with another portion of the same or a different multicast stream. The information can be tagged with an indicator pointer marker or in some other manner provided system can locate the related information when the tag is selected by a user. Thus related information does not have to be contained in the same location as the tagged data stream.

For example the ticker stream can include the current scores for football games. Each game has a tag or ID number. When a user selects e.g. clicks on a portion of the ticker which is associated with the ID the ID or tag points to and automatically accesses another part of the application to provide for example a full game experience that includes the statistics and other information that might be of interest to the user e.g. player information schedule of future games and so forth . It should be understood that the marker or tag can be embedded within the application. Thus the user perceives a set of data e.g. scores but does not perceive the tag or marker.

In accordance with some aspects there can be a separate stream that is accessed. For example if a user is interested in football games a stream e.g. ticker that includes all football games can be opened. The ticker can display the games the teams or other information. The user can select the item of interest e.g. game team which is associated with a particular ID number. Selection of the item of interest provides interactivity such that the user can drill down to perceive more detailed information as desired.

Also included is a rendering module that can be configured to insert the parsed information e.g. the information pointed to into a ticker display area. A display module can display the markers in a predetermined display area. The information is presented in a dedicated area of the screen which can be at any location and in accordance with some aspects can be moved by the user. In accordance with some aspects rendered markers are included within a ticker and presented within a first predetermined area of the display. At substantially the same time another application can be presented at a second predetermined area of the display. For example the dedicated display area could be in an upper right corner a lower left corner along the upper or lower display area or any other place within the display area. The dedicated display area can be an area that is small enough to allow a user to perceive a separate application e.g. primary experience running at substantially the same time the information is presented and large enough to allow the user to perceive the ticker information.

Thus for example there can be a number of channels being broadcast for the Olympics such as 30 channels for this example . The Olympic broadcast can be parsed into a number of micro channels for example each micro channel including a different sporting events and statistics and so forth. One of the channels might be of interest to the user. The user through interaction with selector module can navigate though the micro channels and select an item for additional information. Depending on the type of data being transmitted on that micro channel the receiver can present the additional information though one or more perceivable means e.g. audio visual to provide the user with the desired information.

System can include a processor operatively coupled to receiver to execute instructions relating to accepting user selections and dynamically displaying information relating to the selections. In accordance with some aspects processor can execute instructions relating to rendering indicators wherein each indicator is respectively associated with a micro channel on a multicast stream and employing the indicators to access respective micro channels. Processor can further execute instructions relating to receiving a user selection for a first marker before employing the markers to access respective micro channels and displaying information contained in the respective micro channel in a dedicated display area. Processor can be a processor that analyzes and generates information received by receiver and or can control one or more components of system .

A memory can be operatively coupled to processor and or receiver . Memory can store one or more pointers that indicate related information generated by the processor. In accordance with some aspects memory can store information related to user selections user preferences and or historical information relating to information previously viewed.

It should be appreciated that the data store e.g. memories components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of example and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of example and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM DRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Memory of the disclosed embodiments are intended to comprise without being limited to these and other suitable types of memory.

Receiver can selectively associate an identifier ID to subsets of each micro channel wherein each subset relates to an item s that can be selected by a user. At substantially the same time as the selection is made information associated with the selection is automatically presented in a perceivable manner to the user. The user can perceive the associated information in a dedicated area of a display through audio means or through other means.

Receiver can employ artificial intelligence AI which can be facilitated by AI component as illustrated. The various embodiments e.g. in connection with providing an interactive ticker can employ various AI based schemes e.g. machine learning and reasoning rules based techniques for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for assigning micro channels within a multicast stream of data with an identifier that points to associated information. The associated information can be automatically presented. In another aspect based on a user or device state AI component can infer which data should be associated and or presented. AI component can dynamically present additional information to a user at substantially the same time as the user selects information from the multicast stream of data. In accordance with some aspects AI component can monitor usage of an application e.g. historical data and automatically display information relating to the historical data by inferring what the user might desire to view.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. In the case of accepting scheduled downloads for example attributes can be information included with the multicast stream e.g. types of data and the classes are categories or areas of interest e.g. user preferences historical use of the data relevance of the data and so forth .

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the one or more embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. by observing user behavior receiving extrinsic information . For example SVM s are configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria the order in which a user selects portions of a multicast stream how a user interacts with the ticker application the number of times a user selects a particular type of data and so on. The criteria can include but is not limited to the type of data included in each subset of the multicast stream of data the content included in each multicast stream of data device information user preferences and so forth.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. It is to be appreciated that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

Method starts at when markers are rendered within a broadcast stream on a user device. Each marker can be associated with a micro channel on a multicast stream of data. The markers can be rendered in such a manner that the marker is readily perceivable and selectable by a user. The marker can include an identifier or tag associated with related content e.g. micro channel that might be included within the same multicast stream as the marker or in a different multicast stream of data.

At the marker is employed to access respective micro channels. The marker can point to the related content and automatically provide the related content in a perceivable format when a marker is selected. For example a ticker including stock quotes can be displayed on a user device at substantially the same time as another application is running. A user perceiving the ticker information that can include stock prices might desire to view more information relating to a particular stock. The user can select the stock name price as it is scrolling by in the ticker. At substantially the same time as the stock name price is selected a micro channel can be dynamically accessed wherein the micro channel contains further information relating to that particular stock e.g. high price low price percent change and so forth . In such a manner a user can interact with the ticker to obtain desired information in a dynamic manner.

In further detail method starts at when markers associated with respective micro channels are provided. The micro channels can be included on a multicast stream of data. The markers can be contained in a ticker which can be presented on a portion of a display area of a user device. The ticker can be presented as a scrolling ticker or in other formats provided such formats are readily perceivable and intuitive. The rendered markers can be within a ticker that can be presented on a display at substantially the same time as another application is presented such as a primary experience.

At a selection for one of the markers is received. The selection can be made by a user selecting the marker presented in the ticker. It should be understood that the marker might not be readily perceivable by the user but information associated with the marker is readily perceivable. For example a user might see the name of their favorite sports team within the ticker however the user does not see the link or association to the micro channel.

Thus a user can be viewing a primary experience and a ticker is provided at the bottom or another place on the display. The user has the ability to scroll through the information included in the ticker e.g. sports scores stock quotes or other information provided in a ticker format while simultaneously watching the primary experience. Thus the user can perceive both the primary experience and the ticker information without changing screens. The user can fast forward through the ticker information which can appear as a stream of data. When the user perceives a portion of the ticker that is of interest a selection can be made such as by clicking on that portion of the ticker. Thus interactivity is provided that allows the user to drill down into the data in order to perceive more detailed information.

At substantially the same time as the marker is selected the marker is employed to access its related micro channel at . The micro channels can be in the same multicast stream of data or in different multicast streams of data. The markers can point to the micro channel that contains related information. Thus the information contained in the marker that points to associated content is used to access that associated content.

At the information contained in the micro channel e.g. associated content is presented in dedicated display area. The displayed information is a subset of data parsed from the respective micro channel. The dedicated display area can be a small section of the total display area which can be selected by the user. If the selected area is not ideal in accordance with some aspects the user can selectively change the display area by selecting a frame or window around the area and moving the area to another location or through other means.

With reference to illustrated is an example system that facilitates presenting relevant information within the limits of a small screen format. For example system may reside at least partially within a mobile device. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which may be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include an electrical component for rendering markers that are respectively associated with micro channels on a multicast stream of data. The rendered markers can be included within a ticker that can be presented on a display at substantially the same time as another application is presented. Also included can be an electrical component for receiving a user selection . The selection can be for one of the markers.

Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for employing the markers to access respective micro channels . The markers can point to the micro channel that contains related information. The respective micro channels can be within the same multicast stream of data or within different multicast streams of data. Also included can be an electrical component for displaying information contained in the respective micro channel in a dedicated display area . The displayed information is a subset of data parsed from the respective micro channel.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and may exist within memory .

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. When the systems and or methods are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor through various means as is known in the art.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within scope of the appended claims. To the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

