---

title: Search initiation
abstract: A computer-implemented user input method includes sensing a user manipulation of a mobile device to present a keyboard, automatically presenting, in response to the sensed manipulation, a search entry area on a display of the user device, and activating the keyboard to provide input into the search entry area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015616&OS=09015616&RS=09015616
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09015616
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081022
---
This document relates to systems and techniques for generating graphical display elements and controls.

Internet search is an enormous business and continues to grow. It is successful because people want relevant information in response to their questions and search engines do a better job than ever before of sorting the wheat from the chaff for search engine users.

People are also increasingly using search functionality on their mobile computing devices. For example mobile devices may be especially helpful in providing local information superimposed on maps so that a user of a mobile device can easily find a local restaurant or store. Users may also want to search locally on their device such as to search for the name of a friend within a long list of contacts on their mobile device.

This document describes systems and techniques that may be used to interact with a user of a computing device like a mobile telephone. In general the systems may detect when a user slides open a slider cell phone or flips open a clamshell cell phone to uncover a keyboard for the phone. The techniques described herein may react in particular ways to the exposing of a keyboard mechanism such as providing immediate search functionality to a user of such a device. In other words when the keyboard first becomes exposed a device may assume that a user intends to type into the device and may assume that such typing is likely to involve the submission of a search query. In certain implementations presentation of a search input mechanism such as a search box may be initiated by exposing a virtual keyboard on a screen of a device or simply by a user typing in a particular context such as by the user typing when a desktop with icons is being displayed. Search functionality may include web searching local searching application specific searching library searching and other software searching functionality.

In certain implementations such systems and techniques may provide one or more advantages. For example a device that automatically displays a search screen upon engaging a keyboard can ensure that a user can quickly find information related to the current active application. Without the automatic presentation of a search entry area or other query entry mechanism the user may have to navigate to the search entry area in several steps rather than simply typing in the desired search query when provided with access to the keyboard.

In one implementation a computer implemented user input method is disclosed. The method comprises sensing a user manipulation of a mobile device to present a keyboard automatically presenting in response to the sensed manipulation a search entry area on a display of the user device activating the keyboard to provide input into the search entry area receiving textual user input at the keyboard and inserting the input in the search entry area. The user manipulation can comprise sliding a mechanical keyboard from under a front portion of the mobile device and into an open position. Also the user manipulation can comprise rotating the mobile device from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation.

In certain aspects upon receiving user input an active cursor can be positioned in the automatically presented search entry area. In some aspects before automatically presenting the search entry area the method can include determining whether an active program is a program responsive to search input and present the search entry area in connection to the program only if the program is responsive to search input.

In some aspects displaying the search entry area can comprise displaying the search entry area as a pop up box over the active application. The method can include receiving a search query with the search entry area providing search results received in response to the query to the active application and changing a display of the active application to reflect the received search results. In certain aspects if the active program is not responsive to search input the method can comprise opening a search entry area separate from the active application receiving a search query with the search entry area and providing search results received in response to the query in a display apart from the active application. The search results can be obtained from a search set type corresponding to an application type of the active application. The search set type can be selected from a group including a map search local search web search book search blog search and product search.

In another implementation a computer implemented user input system is disclosed. The system comprises a concealable keyboard having a first mode in which the keyboard is not accessible to a user and a second mode in which the keyboard is accessible to a user a keyboard monitor to determine when the concealable keyboard transitions from the first mode to the second mode and a search application programmed to generate a search entry area automatically when the keyboard monitor determines that the keyboard has moved from the first mode to the second mode. In certain aspects text entered on the keyboard after the keyboard transitions from the first mode to the second mode can be entered in the search entry area automatically.

The system also comprises in some implementations a mechanical QWERTY slide out keyboard and the keyboard monitor can include a switch in a slide out mechanism. The system may further comprise an application that is active on the device and is programmed to receive search results in response to submission of a search query from the search entry area. The search application in the system can be programmed to automatically position an active cursor in the search entry area upon automatically presenting the search entry area.

In another implementation a computer implemented user input system is disclosed. The system comprises a concealable keyboard having a first mode in which the keyboard is not accessible to a user and a second mode in which the keyboard is accessible to a user a keyboard monitor to generate a signal when the concealable keyboard transitions from the first mode to the second mode and a means for presenting a search entry area to a user for entry of a search query using the keyboard.

This document describes systems and techniques by which mobile devices may interact with users of such devices. In general a mobile device may include a keyboard a touchscreen a roller ball a switch or other input device for receiving tactile feedback from a user. The input devices may be provided at various locations on or attached to the mobile device. For example input devices can be connected to the exterior of the mobile device e.g. a USB keyboard permanently mounted to the mobile device e.g. a button or switch detachably mounted to the mobile device e.g. a stylus or hidden within the mobile device e.g. a slidable keyboard or clamshell keyboard . A user can access one or more of the input devices to perform various actions. In one example a user may unveil a hidden keyboard on a mobile device by performing a manipulation of the device such as sliding turning flipping or twisting one or more mobile device component.

Hiding or enclosing one or more input device within a mobile device can provide the advantage of safely storing device hardware to ensure damage does not occur. In some implementations hiding an input device such as a keyboard may be provided as a convenience when the user wishes to use only a portion of the mobile device. For example if the user selects a control on the mobile device intended to initiate voice dialing functionality a keyboard input may not be required to perform any portion of the voice dialing task. Accordingly it may be convenient to store the keyboard until an application or other task requires keyboard use.

Certain tasks performed using mobile devices can be best accomplished with the use of a keyboard. For example text messaging or composing email may be easiest to perform with the use of a keyboard such as a full QWERTY keyboard rather than a number pad. In some implementations mobile device manufacturers provide an easily accessible keyboard on the outer surface of the phone. In other implementations mobile device manufacturers provide a hidden keyboard within the mobile device that can be activated by a user. For example the user may activate a switch or slide mechanism to unveil a keyboard on the mobile device.

In this example unveiling a keyboard on the device may trigger various applications to be presented to the user. For example unveiling the keyboard may automatically trigger an active search entry area such as in the form of a search box to display within a display screen on the mobile device. The search box or other search entry area may provide search engine capabilities including application specific searching in addition to menu selections or other software functionality. For example the keyboard unveiling may automatically provide a mobile device user with ready access to a GOOGLE search page. Also the unveiled keyboard may be a physical or virtual keyboard. A physical keyboard can be unveiled and thus made accessible to a user by sliding it out from behind another part of a mobile device or by other such mechanisms whereas a virtual keyboard may be revealed in response to a variety of user inputs e.g. tapping a screen or rotating a phone from a portrait to a landscape orientation .

The search box can be provided as the active application or within another active application. For example the search box may be presented next to another active application e.g. as a bar at the top of a graphical display and the cursor can be focused in the search box awaiting input from a user accessing the keyboard. The user can then enter a search query to search for a particular topic. In some implementations the search engine box may be used to search within files stored on a mobile device or other resources or networks available to the mobile device.

Providing focus on the search box upon enabling keyboard functionality can allow a user to immediately enter search query data for finding web content maps contacts program information and other searchable data. In some implementations the search box can be a context dependent search box. A context dependent search box considers the context of one or more actively running applications or the content of data entered into the box to determine the best search strategy to employ such as by automatically selecting a corpus on which to search . For example if the user is actively using a mapping application and slides the phone to enable the keyboard the search box displayed may be configured to search for locations of interest addresses businesses and the like. Also if the user types an address into a general search box the search results may be displayed with a mapping application even if that application was not previously the focus of the display. And if a user types a large amount of text the text may be entered into a composition application such as an e mail application or word processor under the assumption that the user did not intend to perform a search on an entry that is several sentences long.

In some implementations the search box may be context independent and simply perform a search of the internet or a large group of items stored locally on a device e.g. all user files upon receiving a search query in the search box. For example if the mobile device is showing a desktop screen and the user is not engaged in another application the user can slide the phone to enable the keyboard and a context independent search box can be provided. In some contexts data entry by the user may invoke the search entry area such as in the form of a search box. For example if a user begins typing on a keyboard in a situation for which textual entry is not otherwise supported e.g. if the user is on a home page or desktop of a device and has not located a cursor in any data entry area it may be assumed that the user intends to have the entered data provided to a search application. Such providing of the data may happen automatically without changing the display on a device or a search area may be displayed and filled with whatever characters a user of the device enters. The user may then select an appropriate control such as an enter key to submit whatever search query they have typed.

At some point the user may wish to enter a new address location using the mapping application and may do so by sliding the mobile device display upward to reveal a keyboard . For example the user may be viewing a map or other content in a first view and may transition to a second view by sliding the keyboard from under a front portion of the mobile device . As shown the first view depicts the mobile device in a concealed mode while the second view depicts the mobile device in an open or partially open mode.

The transition from concealed mode e.g. view to open mode e.g. view for the keyboard is generally invoked by a user. For example a mobile device user can trigger a switch or other mechanism that can mechanically transition device from the first mode e.g. view to the second mode e.g. view . The mobile device can sense the user manipulation e.g. by a switch located near a mechanical linkage that permits sliding of the screen on the device and automatically present a search box in the display in addition to activating the keyboard . For example in response to sliding graphical display a map search box may appear over or near the map shown in display so that the user may input an address or other appropriate information. The map search box may be context dependent such that user entered search queries are used to find maps locations and address information pertaining to the mapping application. That is the map search box may search a map database a GPS database an address database or other mapping based data store but may not be configured to search other databases such as email the web a phone directory or other database.

The context for a context dependent search box may also come from sources other than applications that are running on the device. For example an accelerometer in a device may sense certain motion of the device and may match that motion to a signature to infer an activity. For example a bobbing motion with a repeating impulse may represent that the user of the device is walking. A small vibratory motion may represent that the user is driving their car or riding on a bus or train. Thus in the first example when the device s keyboard is exposed the search may be made automatically for local information e.g. movies restaurants etc. while in the second example the search may be made automatically to a mapping application. A user can also program what searches to associate with certain contexts such as searching their personal files when the device is at rest e.g. because the person is sitting at their desk and working .

In some implementations the user can configure applications to provide a simple and generic search box upon exposing the keyboard. The generic search box may be used to search a certain set of files e.g. all user files on mobile device internet databases or other data stores. For example the generic search box may be presented as a GOOGLE search bar for searching the web. In the example shown in the user may use a generic search box to find a nearby restaurant address before mapping the address in the mapping program.

The search box may be displayed partially or wholly over an active application or a blank desktop. The search box may be displayed with an active cursor in the search box and ready for a user to enter a search query pertaining to either an active application or a generic search. The user can then enter a search query and select the search button to submit the search.

In some implementations a search box may not be displayed upon activation of the keyboard . For example if the application running in the background does not generally function with a search tool one may not be provided. Some examples of applications that may not use search functionality include mobile phone games configuration applications calculator applications etc. In some implementations automatic provision of a search tool can be optionally configured by a user. For example the user may wish to always perform some sort of search when opening the keyboard and can therefore configure a context dependent or context independent search box to display on device . The user can also configure searches to be conducted for contexts that match all running applications and the search results for each application may be displayed when the user enters the relevant application.

In some implementations the display of the search box may be delayed after the opening of a keyboard for a certain time or until the occurrence of a particular event. For example where a keyboard is revealed or has already been opened and another action occurs such as the launching of a new application no search interface may be shown. However as soon as the user begins typing on the keyboard the search user interface may appear and be filled in with the data entered by the user as the user types.

In addition in such a delayed situation and others the type of search results including results for data that is resident on a device or otherwise specific to a user such as by being stored as part of a user account on a server . For example when a user is at a home screen or desktop on a mobile device and they slide a keyboard open no search user interface may display initially. That is because in such a situation the user may intend to next select an icon on a touchscreen and move it around and not immediately use the keyboard. However as soon as the user starts typing when on the home page or desktop a search user interface may appear and become populated with the information that the user is entering from the keyboard.

In some implementations a non mechanical mechanism can be used to activate or unveil a keyboard. For example a user may provide tactile feedback into a touchscreen by tapping a keyboard icon to display the keyboard in the mobile device screen . In such a situation the search box and search results can be provided near the touchscreen keyboard upon keyboard selection for example.

The initial illustration shows a general GOOGLE search box located in screen over the desktop of device . The general search box may be any appropriate search engine selectable by a user or configured automatically within the mobile device. The general search box may be displayed if no context exists for displaying a specialized search box. For example if the device is turned off or in hibernation mode initially and then activated upon sliding open the screen to reveal a keyboard the user may not have been actively using the device . As such the general search box may be displayed to allow the user to search the web or their local device e.g. via desktop search for anything related to the entered keywords rather than search for application specific information. In a similar fashion the mobile device may have no actively running applications and as such there would be no context for providing a particular search box. In this example the general GOOGLE search screen is presented to the user.

Although a general search box is displayed by default the user may choose to search for content that is more specific including a map search a local content search a web search a book search a blog search a product search an image search a web search or other searches. In some implementations the device user can configure the general search box to display a specific search website search strategy search genre and may provide other limitations to the search process.

As shown in a user has activated the keyboard on device and entered the search terms Ben Jerry ice cream using the keyboard . The device received the textual user input at the keyboard and automatically inserted the input into a search box without the user navigating to the search box. The user may select the search button to submit the search query. Other keystrokes or button combinations may be used to submit the search query. Upon receiving the search query the search engine associated with the search box can perform the search in a typical fashion.

Referring to illustration the search results are displayed in screen . As is typical with a general web search the search results include links related to the keywords entered above e.g. Ben Jerry s Homemade Ice Cream link history of ice cream link ice cream recipe link and other ice cream related links . In this example the user submitted the search query outside of a particular application and as such general search results are displayed in screen . In contrast if the search had been performed within a mapping application the search results may have provided directions to the closest Ben Jerry s ice cream shop or another similar ice cream venue as well as address information or telephone numbers.

Illustration depicts the search box on the top portion of the display which caused the other content to advance downward such that the search box displaces a portion of the screen but does not cover the display. Therefore the full display can be seen if the user wishes to scroll downward. In some implementations the search box may cover a portion of display rather than displacing the displayed content. In such a situation the search box may be made translucent so as not to fully obscure the content underneath.

The music application shown active on the device can be programmed to receive search results in response to the submission of a search query from the search box . In particular the application can register with the operating system on device such that an appropriate search context can be provided when a user engages a search mechanism from within the application.

In the illustration the user opened e.g. triggered the keyboard and immediately started to enter the search term coldplay using keyboard . The mobile device automatically placed the active cursor and the user entered text into the search box without the user having to navigate to the search box to enter text. Thus the mobile device deduced that since the user triggered the keyboard the user may wish to perform a search. Accordingly the device launched a search application and automatically placed the cursor appropriately in the search box .

As shown the mobile device is actively running a music application which may determine how a search is performed if the keyboard is opened. For example the search box may present search results that pertain to items found within the music application or related to content found on the web including songs artists playlists artwork and other music related items. Once the user initiates the search the device can submit the search query to a search engine adapted to find content tailored to the active music application. Certain information may be entered into the search box automatically from the application e.g. the band name Coldplay and the user may choose to submit that information or to augment or replace it with other information e.g. coldplay steve carrell movie .

A third illustration depicts search results within display after the search query for coldplay was submitted. Provision of the search results within the active application changed the display to reflect the received search results. In this example the search results include albums for the band Coldplay. The user can select any or all of the albums to play or purchase the content displayed in the result set. In some implementations the user may select another search type using search bar to expand their search to other areas such as the web or local databases.

At box a search box is displayed over the mobile device desktop or application. For example the device shown in depicts a search box displayed over a mobile device mapping application. In this example the user can now use the keyboard to enter search terms into the search box. In some implementations the search box may be displayed on a portion of the mobile device desktop e.g. off to one edge of a display rather than over the entire desktop. For example the search box can be displayed as a pop up a sidebar a corner menu etc. If the user wishes to employ the search box the user can use the unveiled keyboard to input search terms.

At box the mobile device may receive the user entered search terms and submit the query to the search engine. The user entered characters may be entered automatically into the search box without a need for any action other than exposing the keyboard. After the user submits the search query the mobile device may receive box results and result type indicators from the search engine. The result type indicators can be used to determine which applications will be responsible for presenting search results to a user. In general the search engine may determine how to display search results to a user in an appropriate manner. The search results may also be accompanied by code to cause the display of search results such as mark up code for displaying a map with pins showing search results in a browser.

At box the search engine can display results according to the results type indicator. For example if the user accessed the search box within a music application search results may be displayed within the music application GUI. In some implementations search queries entered into a particular search box can be limited to the type of application receiving the search results. For example search queries entered in a music application may be limited to providing search results that include music lyrics titles bands and the like.

At box the search engine can prompt the mobile device to launch a particular application or return to the desktop after presentation of the search results. For example if the user was accessing an application before sliding the keyboard open that application may be presented upon performing the search query or upon exiting the search box.

The process starts at box where an application is presented on a mobile device. In a specific example the mobile device may present a music application in which a user can listen to music and at some point can determine to search for new music.

At box the process senses a keyboard opening. For example if the user determines to engage the keyboard for any reason the mobile device can sense a user manipulation triggering the keyboard opening. Upon sensing the keyboard opening the process can determine at box if an active application is search associated. Search associated applications include programs that are responsive to search input. As an example a mapping application may be deemed search associated since a search for address information can be performed. In contrast a calculator application may not be search associated since the calculator application generally performs calculations and cannot provide other searchable information. In another example a music application may be search associated because users can perform searches within the application for songs artists playlists artwork and other music related items.

The process can determine if a particular application is search associated in various ways. For example the mobile device can require each application to register with the operating system running the device . The registration can set a flag for determining if the application is search associated and if so other registration information can be used to determine which search screens or other interactions can be presented to a user.

In some implementations a separate value may be stored to dictate the type of search to be performed such as mapping search for a mapping related application. In another example the mobile device may query each active application to determine whether a search box should be opened for that application when the keyboard is uncovered. In particular the mobile device may determine that a particular application is search associated with several types of search and may query the application to determine which resources within the application are in use. For example if the user is using a music application and has a library screen open the mobile device can determine to present a combination search box allowing the user to search both the open library and the web. However if the user is actively listening to music with the music application the mobile device can present a context sensitive search box for searching music within the user s library archives.

In some implementations an application program interface API can be used so that third parties may develop applications and provide such information readily to the operating system. The API may include routines protocols and other tools to integrate within a particular search environment. In one example the API may allow a software application to easily identify itself to the operating system for ensuring search application integration.

If the process determines an active application is not search associated a generic search screen can be presented at box . That is a separate search box can be presented outside of the active application. The user can then enter a search into the generic search screen and the process can receive the search request at box .

At box the process submits the received request to a generalized search engine. For example the mobile device submits the search query to a search engine. The search engine can provide a listing of matching web pages files documents or other content and present the results in a search screen at box . In some implementations if a particular active application program is not responsive to search input search results can be displayed in a display apart from the active application.

If the process determines an active application is search associated at box a cursor can be presented in an application specific search window at box . For example includes a cursor shown within a mapping search box because the mapping search box is associated with the active mapping program application. Thus when the user activates the keyboard the search box is displayed with cursor for receiving search queries related to the mapping application. The user can then enter a search into the application specific search window and the process can receive the search request at box .

At box the process submits the received request to a specialized search engine. For example the mobile device submits the search query to a search engine adapted to find content tailored to the active application. One example having application specific search query functionality may include a mapping application that provides lookup for address locations. Users can request address location information and the search engine can provide a listing of possible address matches within the mapping application window at box .

In general if an active application is responsive to search input the application itself can present search boxes search results or other search related content. In addition if the active application can obtain search results from a search set type corresponding to the active application type the search results may displayed within the active application. For example if the search set type is a map search corresponding search results may be displayed within the mapping application. As another example if the search set type is a local search the search results may be displayed in a text file a generic search window or other application. In a similar fashion general web searches book searches blog searches and produce searches can all be displayed within a web browser for example.

In some implementations the mobile device may not be an internet enabled phone or a user may simply choose not to purchase internet service. In such a case search queries can be performed to retrieve media files applications and other information stored locally on the mobile device rather than over the internet.

One such component is a keyboard switch which may be responsible for triggering a search box for presentation on display when keyboard is opened. The keyboard is shown as a QWERTY slide out keyboard connected to a keyboard monitor via linkage . The linkage may take a variety of forms and may include a four bar linkage that anchors itself on the right hand side of the device and connects behind the display . Such a mechanism may advantageously permit the display to slide further upward than might be possible with other arrangements though the display is not shown fully extended in this example so as to permit the implementation of a more complete keyboard .

A keyboard monitor is generally a software module that keeps track of the position of the keyboard and may be a component of the operating system that announces an event to an event manager. That is the keyboard monitor can determine whether the keyboard is in a first mode e.g. concealed or a second mode e.g. open and accessible to the user using keyboard switch and may report any changes in the state of the switch . The keyboard monitor can generally report events to the operating system including events such as when the keyboard is opened or closed when text is entered or when a search is performed just to name a few examples.

The mobile device also includes an input manager that interacts with the keyboard monitor to manage inputs e.g. text entry button depresses etc on a touch screen or keyboard and to provide the inputs to the appropriate applications. In general the input manager may be responsible for translating commands provided by a user of device . For example such commands may come from a keyboard from touch screen display from trackball or from other such sources including dedicated buttons or soft buttons e.g. buttons whose functions may change over time and whose functions may be displayed on areas of display that are adjacent to the particular buttons . The input manager may determine for example in what area of the display commands are being received and thus for which application being shown on the display the commands are intended. In addition the input manager may interpret a keyboard opening to indicate that the user wishes to perform a search for content upon opening the keyboard. The input manager may also report such inputs to an event manager not shown that in turn reports them to the appropriate modules or applications.

The mobile device also includes a display manager which may be responsible for rendering content for presentation on display . The display manager may receive graphic related content from a number of sources and may determine how the content is to be provided to a user. For example the mobile device presents mapping content in a landscape mode since the keyboard is open and may be used to enter content while peering at screen . In another implementation the keyboard may be closed such that the user may position the phone vertically and view content in screen in a portrait mode e.g. see the transition from vertical to horizontal shown in . In another example a number of different windows for various applications on the device may need to be displayed and the display manager may determine which to display which to hide and what to display or hide when there is overlap between various graphical objects.

A variety of applications may operate on a common microprocessor on the device . The applications may take a variety of forms such as mapping applications email and other messaging applications web browser applications and various applications running within a web browser or running extensions of a web browser. In particular mobile device can provide a search application to contextually or non contextually search for content upon receiving a signal from the keyboard switch . For example the search application can generate a search box automatically when the keyboard monitor determines that the keyboard has moved from the concealed mode to the open mode. In addition the search application can handle input from a user and submission of that input to a remote search engine to return search results. The search application may be invoked by invoking a web browser and directing the browser to a particular URL such as www.google.com.

The search application can also provide the results to various applications that are operating on the device . For example the search application can verify via the operating system on device which database network or website should be used to perform the search. For example the search application can determine which search result type is relevant to an active application so that the search application may when a particular application is active generate the appropriate type of search box and also submit the search query to the appropriate type of search engine.

In operation the search application can determine which type of search box or screen to provide within an application and how and where the results might be displayed to the user. For example if the mobile phone is running a text editor application such as SMS or MMS texting email tasks or other text application the search application may pop up or otherwise provide a search screen including one or more of an address search a dictionary an instant messenger list etc. In another example if the mobile device is running a camera application the search application may provide a search tool to find memory photos camera configuration menus etc. In yet another example if the mobile device is running a calendar application the search application may provide a search tool to find the next open appointment or next calendar entry. In still another example if the mobile device is running a media player application the search application may provide a search tool to find songs artists albums ringtones music and such on the web or within local or networked drives and directories. In another example if the mobile device is running a mapping application the search application may provide a search tool to find addresses driving directions local maps local destinations phone numbers etc.

A wireless interface manages communication with a wireless network which may be a data network that also carries voice communications. The wireless interface may operate in a familiar manner such as according to the examples discussed below and may provide for communication by the device with messaging service such as text messaging e mail and telephone voice mail messaging. In addition the wireless interface may support downloads and uploads of content and computer code over a wireless network.

Various forms of persistent storage may be provided such as using fixed disk drives and or solid state memory devices. Two examples are shown here. First map data includes data representing one or more geographic maps or GPS data that may be displayed on device . The map data may include a limited number of maps such as a single map in memory shared with many other components of the system where the device uses a web browser or similar system to access online maps. Alternatively a number of maps for an entire geographic area may be loaded into map data store and used by device to reduce the need to download map content while the device is being used.

Other storage includes user data which may be stored on the same media as map data . The user data includes various parameters about a user of the device . In the example relevant here the user data may include data defining user names passwords preferences etc. The user data can also store configuration data for each user s preferred search engine search type result presentation button assignment and other such usability preferences.

In operation the keyboard monitor can generate a signal when the keyboard is transitioned from concealed mode to open mode. The input manager can then automatically direct user entered text into the provided search box. Specifically the search application may be programmed to automatically position an active cursor in the search box upon automatically presenting the search box. The input manager can also automatically place any keyboard entered content into the search box.

Using the pictured components and others that are omitted here for clarity the device may provide particular search screens in response to sliding a keyboard into active use. Specifically the device may respond to the keyboard opening in particular ways depending on which applications are currently active in screen for example. In addition the device can determine how to perform a search and present search results depending on the active application

The mobile device can generate and display a search box in various ways. In one example a search box can be displayed as a pop up box over an active application. In some implementations the pop up box can be directed to search within the active application. In other implementations the pop up box can be directed to search the web or other external network.

In another example a search box can be generated over a full screen e.g. as shown in . Here the search box may be a standard search engine that searches the web upon receiving search query information. A search box can also be provided centered side barred bannered corner rising or anywhere over a particular active application. In some implementations the search box may be provided in a menu or drop down box within the application that can appear upon mouse over for example. In such an example the search box may be transparent in the screen until the user performs a mouse over using roller ball for example.

In some implementations the user can pre configure the layout of one or more search controls within one or more applications. In a similar fashion the user may pre configure a generalized search box or desktop displayed search box. In other implementations standard search engine technology can simply be merged into each application such that a standard search bar is shown within appropriate applications.

The use of the aforementioned mechanisms may allow a user of a mobile device to search more quickly and seamlessly through web content or application content on their mobile device without having to select and navigate to search engines and buried search functions. They may quickly see if an application is associated with search functionality and perform a search on the fly to obtain desired information.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the user interface features described here is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to display notifications regarding events on the device and to permit a user to conveniently pull down detail about the events relating to the notifications into an extended view of the events.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for responding to notification of alerts and responding to messages and the like and also to a touch screen . The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 5GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 5.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 5 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bidirectional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that generate notifications about alerts such as newly arriving messages on the device.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for notifications and interactions with messages and other events using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application and a browser application . Each of the applications may generate graphical elements that either do or do not have long press interactions. As described above those that do not have long press interactions may provide no immediate visual feedback when they are first pressed while those that do have such interactions may be highlighted between the time they are first pressed and the expiration of the long press period. Also the highlighting may not occur exactly upon a press so that mere tapping of an item does not cause it to be highlighted instead the highlighting may occur upon the expiration of a short press period that is slightly more than the time period for a tap but appreciably shorter than a long press period.

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example much of this document has been described with respect to messaging and mapping applications but other forms of graphical applications may also be addressed such as interactive program guides web page navigation and zooming and other such applications.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

