---

title: Method and apparatus to reduce non-linear distortion in mobile computing devices
abstract: Techniques to reduce distortion in acoustic signals in mobile computing devices are described. For example, a mobile computing device may comprise a speaker operative to receive a first signal and output a second signal. The mobile computing device may further comprise a first microphone operative to receive the second signal and a second microphone operative to receive a third signal. An echo canceller may be coupled to the first microphone and the second microphone and may be operative to compare the second signal and the third signal and reduce distortion in the third signal based on the comparison. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08693698&OS=08693698&RS=08693698
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08693698
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080430
---
As mobile computing devices continue to evolve the demand for high quality audio reproduction continues to increase. Acoustic echo is a common problem in mobile computing devices that reduces the quality of acoustic audio reproduction. Conventional echo cancellation techniques utilize linear models that often fail to completely remove or adequately reduce the necessary echo components from the signal received at the primary microphone of the mobile computing device. The reason for the degraded performance of the conventional techniques is often distortion introduced by the speaker element of the mobile computing device. The distortion introduced by the speaker may be non linear and therefore may not be handled by conventional linear echo canceller algorithms and models. It is desirable therefore for mobile computing devices to include a second microphone configured to capture the output of the speaker including any distortion or inaccuracy introduced by the speaker and use this signal to reduce non linear distortion in the audio signal received at the primary microphone. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve non linear distortion reduction in mobile computing devices.

Acoustic echo is a common problem in mobile computing devices. Conventional echo cancellation techniques often fail to completely remove the necessary echo components from the received audio signal. Conventional echo cancellation techniques take as inputs the signal going into a speaker and the signal received from a microphone. The conventional techniques then attempt to cancel any echo embedded in the microphone signal based on a comparison of the signal sent to the speaker and the signal received at the microphone. These conventional techniques utilize a linear model of the echo environment treating the propagation channel as a linear system with an estimated impulse response. Conventional algorithms do not however model non linear distortion that may be introduced by the speaker of the mobile computing device. The focus on linear echo cancellation results in degraded performance due in part to the distortion introduced by the speaker which may be non linear in nature and therefore not handled by linear echo cancellation algorithms.

In the event that a speaker is over driven or is simply inadequate to accurately reproduce the desired acoustic signal the sent signals will have non linear distortion introduced by the speaker prior to the signal entering the echo environment. As a result the signal received at the primary microphone of the mobile computing device will contain linear distortion introduced by the echo environment in which the mobile computing device is being used and non linear distortion of the original signal introduced by the speaker. In this situation the linear model of convention echo cancellation techniques is inadequate. The non linear distortion components remain embedded in the signal and are potentially heard by a far end user as an annoying echo.

Conventional echo cancellers may contain proprietary non linear algorithms to handle the non linear distortions introduced by echo environments. Many of these non linear algorithms rely on attenuating or even muting the microphone path completely reducing or eliminating the reception of non linear distortion but also reducing or removing the desired user voice signal from the microphone. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve non linear distortion reduction in mobile computing devices.

While conventional mobile computing devices may utilize a plurality of microphones for location modeling distance determinations beam forming etc. these conventional devices have not traditionally used the plurality of microphones for non linear echo cancellation as described herein. Various embodiments may be generally directed to non linear distortion reduction for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to methods and apparatus to reduce non linear distortion in mobile computing devices.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a speaker cavity speaker first microphone second microphone and an echo canceller. In various embodiments the echo canceller may be coupled to the first microphone and the second microphone and may be operative to compare the signal from the second microphone and the signal from the first microphone to reduce distortion in a received acoustic signal.

The mobile computing device may further include a processor coupled to the speaker first microphone and second microphone. The processor may be operative to execute the echo canceller. The mobile computing device may further include a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may be operative to store the echo canceller. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Reducing the amount of non linear distortion received at a mobile computing device may have several advantages. For example if a user involved in a telephone conversation using their mobile computing device increases the volume of the device the speaker of the mobile computing device may be over driven. In this situation it would be advantageous for the mobile computing device to detect the distortion introduced by the over driven speaker and reduce the distortion in the received audio signal at the primary microphone to avoid any disruption in the telephone call quality experienced by the user. Utilizing a secondary microphone in close proximity to the speaker may allow the mobile computing device to capture and reduce non linear distortion introduced by the speaker and enhance the performance and user experience of the mobile computing device.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device cordless phone wireless headset wired headset VoIP phone and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . As depicted in the memory may store an echo canceller in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to provide echo cancellation or distortion reduction operations for the mobile computing device . Although the echo canceller is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that the echo canceller may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although the echo canceller is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for the echo canceller may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Speaker may comprise one or more electromechanical transducers that convert an electrical signal to sound. Speaker may be configured to provide stereophonic or monophonic sound for example. In various embodiments speaker may comprise one or more speakers. In various embodiments a first speaker may be configured for a close range audio mode and a second speaker may be configured for a speakerphone audio mode. In various embodiments the first or second speaker may be located remote from the mobile computing device . For example the first or second speaker may be located in a Bluetooth headset or hands free car kit communicably coupled to mobile computing device .

The microphones and may comprise any acoustic to electric transducer or sensor that converts sound into an electrical signal. In various embodiments microphones and may comprise dynamic microphones condenser microphones or any other type of microphone suitable for use in converting audio signals into electrical signals to be processed by mobile computing device . While microphones and are shown as part of mobile computing device by way of example it should be understood that microphones and may comprise a microphone that is not part of mobile computing device in various embodiments. In various embodiments either of microphones or may comprise a microphone that is located remote from mobile computing device and is communicably coupled to mobile computing device . For example microphone may comprise a microphone that is part of a Bluetooth headset or hands free car kit communicably coupled to mobile computing device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Speaker cavity may comprise a housing or hollow area defined within mobile computing device . In various embodiments speaker cavity is configured to secure and protect speaker . Speaker cavity may be configured with at least one side that contains openings to allow acoustic signals to escape the cavity and mobile computing device in various embodiments. For example speaker cavity may have one side that contains holes slots or any other openings suitable for allowing acoustic signals to escape the cavity. The openings should be sized such that foreign objects cannot easily penetrate the speaker cavity and cause damage to speaker .

In various embodiments microphone may be located within speaker cavity along with speaker . In some embodiments microphone may be located outside of speaker cavity and still fall within the described embodiments. Speaker cavity may be located within mobile computing device in various embodiments. In one embodiment speaker cavity may be located outside of mobile computing device . For example speaker cavity may be located within a Bluetooth headset device that is communicably couple to mobile computing device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In general operation the mobile computing device may comprise a speaker . Speaker may be operative to receive a first signal and output a second signal in some embodiments. The first signal may comprise an electrical source signal and the second signal may comprise the electrical source signal after it has been converted to an acoustic signal plus any distortion inaccuracy or non linearity introduced by speaker . In some embodiments the distortion introduced by speaker comprises non linear distortion created when speaker forms the second signal. For example if the amplitude of the first signal is such that speaker will be over driven or speaker is insufficient to handle the first signal non linear distortion will be created when speaker forms the second signal.

The non linear distortion associated with the second signal may also be formed due to inaccuracies in the acoustic reproduction of the electrical source signal by speaker in some embodiments. Non linear distortion may comprise for example new or additional frequency components and phase shifts that were not present in the original signal and were not introduced by a linear system such as an echo environment. Non linear distortion may comprise for example clipping due to the speaker being over driven buzzing resulting from the speaker coming into contact with the speaker cavity or other mechanical components phase or other harmonic distortions etc. This clipping or buzzing generated by the speaker may contain high frequency components not present in the original signal e.g. non linear distortion.

Mobile computing device further comprises microphone operative to receive the second signal from speaker and provide the second signal to echo canceller . As shown in speaker and microphone may be located within speaker cavity in various embodiments. Microphone may in various embodiments be located outside of speaker cavity and still fall within the embodiments described herein. For example microphone may be located outside speaker cavity in a location selected to reduce the potential that echo or other linear distortion other than non linear distortion introduced by speaker will be captured along with the first signal at microphone . Microphone may comprise a secondary microphone in various embodiments.

Microphone may comprise a primary microphone in some embodiments. Microphone may be operative to receive a third signal and provide the third signal to echo canceller . The third signal may comprise the second signal and linear distortion inaccuracy or echo introduced by an echo environment. The third signal may also include the voice signal of the user of mobile computing device . The voice signal is the signal that is to be reproduced and cleaned up by mobile computing device in various embodiments.

Linear distortion may comprise a superposition or time shifted and amplitude scaled version of the original signal. For example linear distortion may comprise a delayed version of the original signal. An example of a type of linear distortion may comprise distortion introduced into an acoustic signal as a result of the signal traveling through an echo environment. For example the third signal may comprise an acoustic version of the first signal non linear distortion introduced by speaker linear distortion introduced by the echo environment in which mobile computing device is being used and the voice of a user of mobile computing device .

Echo canceller is coupled to microphone and microphone in various embodiments. The echo canceller may be operative to compare the second signal and the third signal and reduce distortion in the third signal based on the comparison. In various embodiments the distortion reduced by echo canceller may comprise non linear distortion introduced by speaker .

By using secondary microphone to capture the distorted output of speaker mobile computing device may avoid the use of non linear echo cancellation algorithms in some embodiments. For example secondary microphone may capture the output of speaker including clipping buzzing or other non linear distortion introduced by speaker and mobile computing device may use this signal to cancel or reduce non linear distortion. For example conventional linear echo cancellation techniques may be used to remove the clipping buzzing or other non linear speaker output from the signal received at the primary microphone based on the signal captured by the secondary microphone .

In various embodiments the second signal undergoes only linear distortion through the echo paths of the echo environment prior to being captured at the primary microphone . Comparing and reducing non linear distortion based on the signal captured by the secondary microphone may increase the accuracy of non linear distortion reduction and avoid the need to use complex and often inaccurate non linear echo cancellation algorithms in various embodiments. In this manner mobile computing device is capable of focusing on the linear distortion introduced by the echo environment without being burdened with complex non linear distortion computations. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments comparing the second signal and the third signal further comprises arranging a non linear cancellation algorithm based on the comparison. The non linear cancellation algorithm may be used to reduce non linear distortion in the third signal in some embodiments. While a non linear cancellation algorithm may be used in some embodiments it should be understood that use of a non linear cancellation algorithm is not required to fall within the embodiments described herein. The non linear cancellation algorithm is further described with reference to and the accompanying embodiments described in more detail below.

The first signal may optionally be sent to the echo canceller in various embodiments. The first signal comprising the electrical source signal may be compared with the third signal at echo canceller to reduce linear distortion or echo in the third signal. In some embodiments comparing the first signal and the third signal further comprises arranging a linear echo cancellation algorithm based on the comparison and using the linear echo cancellation algorithm to reduce echo in the third signal. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments signal may comprise the electrical source signal or first signal as described with reference to . Signal may comprise the original audio source signal prior to conversion from an electrical signal to an acoustic signal by speaker and prior to any distortion or echo being added to the signal.

Signal is sent to speaker for conversion from an electrical signal to an acoustic signal. In some embodiments signal is also sent to echo canceller to assist in the reduction of linear echo cancellation. As illustrated in sending signal to echo canceller is optional and is not required to fall within the embodiments described herein.

In various embodiments signal comprises the output of speaker . Signal comprises an acoustic version of signal plus non linear distortion . Non linear distortion may result from speaker being overdrive speaker being inadequate to reproduce signal or speaker inaccurately reproducing signal . Signal represents in some embodiments a signal that has not yet entered or been effected by echo environment and has been effected only by speaker . Signal is captured by microphone and is sent to echo canceller in various embodiments.

Signal enters the echo environment and travels along at least one echo path . Echo environment may comprise any environment in which a mobile computing device could be operated. For example echo environment may comprise the inside of an automobile the outdoors indoors with exposed brick walls or other reflecting surfaces an auditorium etc. The acoustic characteristics of the echo environment will differ from echo environment to echo environment. As a result echo paths and will differ in each respective echo environment and when mobile computing device is utilized in different configurations or locations in each echo environment. While only two echo paths are shown by way of example it should be understood that any number of echo paths may exist for purposes of the described embodiments.

In various embodiments signal traverses echo environment along a number of echo paths such as echo paths and for example and arrives at speaker as signal . Signal represents a transformed version of signal that has been distorted in part as a result of echo environment and the one or more echo paths over which it has traveled. Signal is passed from microphone to echo canceller where it is compared with signal to reduce the amount of non linear distortion present in signal . In some embodiments signal is also compared with signal at echo canceller to reduce the amount of linear distortion present in signal . Echo canceller then outputs a signal with reduced linear and non linear distortion for further processing by mobile computing device . In some embodiments signals and may be compared at places other than at echo canceller and still fall within the described embodiments.

The comparison performed at echo canceller may be processed by any suitable form of signal processing such as by a digital signal processor DSP or a general purpose processor for example. Because signals and are known to the echo canceller the comparison or correlation of signals and can occur quickly and can result in an accurate approximation of the distortion introduced by speaker and the echo introduced by the echo environment . Based on the correlation echo canceller may output a signal with reduced linear and non linear distortion for further processing by mobile computing device the outputted signal accurately representing an approximation of the electrical source signal or a cleaned up version of the voice signal of a user of mobile computing device .

In various embodiments signal may comprise a known training sequence utilized by mobile computing device to sound out echo environment and to accurately determine the non linear distortion introduced by speaker . The known training sequence may be selectively sent from mobile computing device to speaker during differing periods of activity and inactivity of the various components of mobile computing device . For example there may be periods of inactivity during which no signals are being sent to the speaker and no signals are being received at microphones and . In some embodiments activity may occur at speaker only at microphone or microphone only or at both microphones and . Any combination of the variety of activity levels is possible and the training sequence may be sent during any of the combination of activity levels for example.

As shown in a signal from a primary microphone may be combined with or compared to a signal from a secondary microphone . The combined signal or the result of the comparison may pass through loop filter which outputs an adaptive algorithm . In some embodiments a source signal may optionally be combined with the signal from the primary microphone in addition to the signal from the secondary microphone . Adaptive algorithm may be used to enhance linear echo path model to account for non linear distortion detected in the combined signal.

In various embodiments the signal from the primary microphone may comprise signal of the signal from the secondary microphone may comprise signal of and the source signal may comprise signal of . By comparing signal and signal echo cancellation algorithm may be adapted to account for non linear distortion. Additionally by optionally comparing signal and signal echo cancellation algorithm may be adapted to account for linear distortion such as echo introduced by an echo environment. While only one echo cancellation algorithm is shown by way of example it should be understood that any suitable echo cancellation algorithm could be used and still fall within the scope of the described embodiments.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

At the second signal is received at a first microphone and the second signal is sent from the first microphone to an echo canceller. For example signal may be received at microphone in and sent to echo canceller . At a third signal may be received at a second microphone and the third signal may be sent from the second microphone to the echo canceller. For example signal may be received at microphone and sent to echo canceller in . The third signal may comprise the second signal and distortion inaccuracy or echo introduced by the echo environment in some embodiments.

The second signal and the third signal may be compared at and distortion may be reduced in the third signal based on the comparison at . For example echo canceller may compare signals and in and reduce distortion detected in signal based on the comparison. In some embodiments signals and may compared in mobile computing device in places other than echo canceller . In various embodiments the speaker and the first microphone may be located within a speaker cavity. For example speaker and microphone may be located within speaker cavity of .

In one embodiment the distortion reduced in the third signal may comprise non linear distortion based on the comparison of the second and third signals. Non linear distortion may comprise for example new or additional frequency components and phase shifts not present in the original signal. For example if speaker of were overdriven by signal the signal having an amplitude outside that range that speaker were configured to accommodate the resulting signal could potentially include additional frequencies that were not present in signal e.g. non linear distortion.

In some embodiments a non linear cancellation algorithm may be arranged based on the comparison of the second signal and the third signal. For example echo cancellation algorithm of may be configured based on the comparison of signals and . The non linear cancellation algorithm may be used to reduce non linear distortion in the third signal in some embodiments. For example non linear distortion in signal of may be reduced using a non linear echo cancellation algorithm which may be executed by echo canceller for example. It should be understood that various embodiments described herein include non linear distortion reduction without the use of a non linear echo cancellation algorithm for example.

In various embodiments the first signal may optionally be sent to the echo canceller and the first signal may be compared with the third signal to reduce linear distortion or echo in the third signal based on the comparison. Linear distortion may comprise superposition of time shifted and amplitude scaled versions of the original signal. For example linear distortion may comprise a delayed version of the original signal. An example of a type of linear distortion may comprise distortion introduced into an acoustic signal as a result of the signal traveling through an echo environment.

In some embodiments a linear echo cancellation algorithm may be arranged based on the comparison of the first signal and the third signal and the linear echo cancellation algorithm may be used to reduce echo in the third signal. For example signal traverses echo paths and in resulting in linear distortion of signal which is captured at microphone as signal . Signal may be compared with signal to detect and reduce the linear distortion introduced by echo environment for example. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include an echo canceller . The echo canceller may be the same or similar to the echo canceller described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

