---

title: Method and apparatus for preserving virtual desktops for e-discovery through an agent-less solution
abstract: A method and apparatus for preserving virtual desktops for e-discovery using an agent-less solution is provided. In one embodiment, the method for providing an agent-less solution to prevent at least one virtual desktop from expiration comprises processing a directory to identify at least one virtual machine used by at least one data custodian as at least one virtual desktop and automatically communicating at least one snapshot of the at least one virtual machine to preserve the at least one virtual desktop.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707299&OS=08707299&RS=08707299
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08707299
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081114
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to e discovery and virtualization techniques and more particularly to a method and apparatus for preserving virtual desktops for e discovery through an agent less solution.

Typically large to mid sized organizations maintain volumes of data of Electronically Stored Information ESI such as confidential and or privileged data. For example such organizations may store financial information e.g. SEC reports legal information e.g. corporate compliance intellectual property pending litigations and or the like as well as internal documents e.g. health records employee information and or the like . Such data may be archived and stored in the repository for later use by various archival software products e.g. SYMANTEC Enterprise Vault . Afterwards such data may expire and become unavailable. For example documents e.g. a deposition an affidavit and or the like created during a previous legal matter e.g. litigation mediation and or the like are deleted and thus cannot be used in any pending legal matter. As such the organization desires to preserve the confidential and or privileged data relevant for future purposes.

A legal hold e.g. litigation hold and or the like may be a process that preserves numerous forms of the ESI in anticipation of litigation. For example the various archival software products may support such a legal hold in order to prevent confidential and or privileged data in the archives from expiration for a certain number of users. However legal holds are difficult to enforce and control for confidential and or privileged data that resides within a custodian computer e.g. a desktop or a laptop that contains large volumes of the ESI. Legal holds are easier to implement in archives and backups since the archived data resides in a central location that is directly under control of the Information Technology IT department. Whereas custodian computers contain ESI in a decentralized form that renders legal holds very difficult to implement. Conventional legal hold solutions on custodian computers require agents i.e. software programs to be installed to lock down the archived data in the event of a pending litigation.

Hence due to the rapid proliferation of virtualization technologies e.g. VMWARE Virtual Desktop Infrastructure VDI implementing legal holds of virtual desktops is important for many organizations. Conventional agent based solutions for creating legal holds on the confidential and or privileged information within the custodian computers may be applied to the virtual desktops in a same or similar manner. Such agent based solutions are not optimized for virtual desktops. Since the virtual desktops are actually virtual machines running in centralized servers legal holds may be performed on the virtual desktops using more efficient agent less solutions as compared to physical machines. Also advanced virtual machine features e.g. snapshots may be utilized to perform legal holds on the virtual desktops in a non intrusive manner.

Therefore there is a need in the art for a method and apparatus for preserving virtual desktops for e discovery using an agent less solution.

Embodiments of the present invention generally comprise a method and apparatus for preserving virtual desktops for e discovery using an agent less solution. In one embodiment the method for providing an agent less solution to prevent at least one desktop from expiration comprises processing a directory to identify at least one virtual machine used by at least one data custodian as at least one virtual desktop and automatically communicating at least one snapshot of the at least one virtual machine to preserve the at least one virtual desktop.

The computer is a type of computing device e.g. a laptop a desktop a Personal Digital Assistant PDA and or the like such as those generally known in the art. The computer includes a Central Processing Unit CPU various support circuits and a memory . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and include one or more clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory comprises at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and the like. The memory includes various software packages such as a tool .

The storage generally includes various components i.e. hardware and software that are configured to manage storage resources within a computing environment. The storage includes one or more data storage devices e.g. hard disk drives optical drives magnetic tape drives and or the like and storage management software that provides an interface e.g. Integrated Drive Electronics AT Attachment IDE ATA Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI and or the like to the one or more data storage devices for the client . The storage facilitates permanent storage i.e. backup of critical computer data such as one or more snapshots .

The virtual desktop manager securely manages and provides access to one or more virtual desktops for one or more custodians. The virtual desktop manager includes one or more virtual machines illustrated as a virtual machine . . . a virtual machine and a directory . In general the virtual machines access physical computing resources at the virtual desktop manager through an abstraction virtualization layer that is produced by virtualization software. Moreover the virtual machines represent one or more physical machines which may be remotely operated by the one or more custodians as the one or more virtual desktops. According to various embodiments of the present invention the directory includes a mapping between each custodian in the centralized computing environment and one or more virtual machines that provide a corresponding virtual desktop. For example the directory may include a mapping between an employee name identifier and a particular virtual machine that creates the corresponding virtual desktop. Furthermore the one or more custodians interact with the virtual machines through various remote display protocols or terminal services e.g. MICROSOFT Remote Desktop Terminal Services CITRIX Independent Computing Architecture and or the like .

The network comprises a communication system that connects computers by wire cable fiber optic and or wireless link facilitated by various types of well known network elements such as hubs switches routers and the like. The network may employ various well known protocols to communicate information amongst the network resources. For example the network may be a part of the internet or intranet using various communications infrastructure such as Ethernet WiFi WiMax General Packet Radio Service GPRS and the like. Furthermore the network may form a portion of a Storage Network Area SAN using various communications infrastructure such as Ethernet Fibre Channel InfiniBand and or the like.

In one or more embodiments the tool may be an e discovery tool e.g. case management tools review tools litigation tools and or the like that facilitates search and analysis e.g. forensic analysis of data such as case management tools review tools email archive tool analytical tools and the like. In one or more embodiments the tool may support a legal hold operation that specifies one or more custodians. In one embodiment the tool specifies an expiration period. According to various embodiments of the present invention the tool determines which virtual machine of the virtual machines is utilized as a virtual desktop by a particular custodian using mappings provided by the directory . According to various embodiments of the present invention the tool cooperates with the virtual desktop manager to generate the snapshots of the virtual machines . In one embodiment the tool invokes one or more virtual desktop manager interface functions to generate the snapshots . For example the one or more virtual desktop manager interface functions may include one or more commands exported by the virtual desktop manager such as a command for generating a snapshot. In addition the virtual desktop manager exports an Application Programming Interface formed by the one or more virtual desktop manager interface functions.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the snapshots are image files that encapsulate data and resources of the virtual machines . As such each snapshot of the snapshots represents a virtual machine of the virtual machines . In one or more embodiments the snapshot represents a copy of working environment of the virtual machines . In one or more embodiments the snapshots may be mounted at a later data for e discovery and analysis.

As an example and not as a limitation the tool e.g. an e discovery tool associated with SYMANTEC Enterprise Vault is configured to prevent expiration of data e.g. confidential and or privileged data for legal matters within a particular virtual machine to preserve a virtual desktop. In one embodiment the tool is designed to identify one or more custodians that utilize the one or more desktops. The custodian controls the virtual desktop and operates the data that may be preserved by the tool . In one embodiment the tool generates and initiates a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP query to identify the one or more virtual machines utilized as the desktop by the one or more custodians. According to various embodiments of the present invention the tool processes the directory to provide a mapping between the one or more custodians and the one or more virtual machines . For example VMWARE Virtual Desktop Infrastructure VDI integrates with MICROSOFT Active Directory to determine and maintain such mappings. Alternatively the tool may invoke one or more Application Programming Interface API functions exported by the virtual desktop manager that in turn performs the LDAP query to satisfy a request in the API call. Optionally the tool specifies a time range for selecting data for preservation through a legal hold.

Once the virtual machine that provides the virtual desktop used by the custodian is identified the tool invokes an API function e.g. exported by a Virtual Infrastructure Management product VMWARE Virtual Center to generate the snapshot of the one or more virtual machines . In another embodiment the computer may include an installation of a VDI client e.g. software code that operates with the centralized virtual desktop environment that may be utilized to generate a snapshot at the virtual desktop manager . According to various embodiments of the present invention the tool transports i.e. copies the snapshots to the storage for secure storage. In one embodiment the tool securely copies the snapshots to the storage through the network e.g. a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Storage Area Network SAN and or the like .

Subsequently the snapshots may be mounted for e discovery. In one embodiment the snapshots are utilized for forensic analysis which is performed by various e discovery tools. If the user has accidentally and or maliciously deleted data blocks and or whole files that may contain privileged and or confidential data then the tool examines one or more free blocks or file segments to determine the deleted data blocks and or files. In one embodiment files within the snapshots are scanned for content. In one embodiment the analysis tools indexes the content to segregate various information e.g. corporate data and personal data . As such the analysis tools are able to extract various portion of the content for review. Alternatively complete copies of the snapshots may be preserved without segregating the various information.

In one or more embodiments the directory provides a mapping between a custodian name identifier and one or more virtual machines e.g. the virtual machines of . At step the one or more virtual machines utilized by the one or more custodians as one or more virtual desktops are identified. At step one or more virtual desktop interface function is invoked to generate one or more snapshots e.g. the snapshots of of the one or more virtual machines. At step the one or more snapshots are communicated e.g. transported or copied . At step the one or more snapshots are stored. For example the one or more snapshots may be copied to secure storage devices e.g. the storage of through a secure computer network e.g. the network of . The method proceeds to step where the method ends.

At step the snapshot is mounted. In one embodiment the snapshot is mounted in order to perform a forensic and or a non forensic analysis. At step one or more files are scanned. At step a determination is made as to whether a forensic analysis is to be performed on the mounted snapshot. If it is determined that the forensic analysis is to be performed option YES then the method proceeds to step . At step one or more deleted data blocks are determined. In one embodiment the deleted data blocks may have been accidentally and or maliciously deleted. In one or more embodiments free blocks and or file segments are examined in order to determine the deleted data blocks. The method proceeds to step . If at step it is determined that forensic analysis is not to be performed option NO then the method proceeds to step . The method ends at step .

Thus various embodiments of the present invention have been provided. The inventive methods and apparatus may advantageously preserve virtual desktops for e discovery using an agent less solution since agents are not required to be installed. In one embodiment the inventive apparatus advantageously optimizes legal hold process.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

