---

title: System and method for context map generation
abstract: Personalized services and targeted services demand the exploitation of context—say, context of an environment, context of a product, context of a service, and context of a customer or user or individual. In order for the personalized and targeted services to have a greater impact, the identified context used by a context aware processing engine needs to be accurate and current. Such an up-to-date context is called as context map and a system and method for generating a customer-specific context map involves the processing of customer transactions, abstracting and generalizing these transactions into entities, and inter-relating these entities. The context map, for example, is useful in ad targeting in mobile environments, and in quicker and efficient problem resolution in contact center environments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538958&OS=08538958&RS=08538958
owner: Satyam Computer Services Limited of Mayfair Centre
number: 08538958
owner_city: Secunderabad
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20080711
---
The present invention relates to context processing in general and more particularly context processing involving individual users and customers. Still more particularly the present invention is related to a system and method for analyzing a customer or user activities with respect to a particular domain to generate the up to date context of the customer or user.

Context can be described as information that can be used for characterizing the status of an entity. The entity can be a person place or an object relevant for any type of interaction between user and application including the user and the application itself. The parameters such as a where is the user b who is the user c how the user works d when the activity is being done and e what the user is doing are used to build a context aware environment. Typically four things namely location entity activity and time are defined to address the parameters for building a context aware environment.

Context aware services that is services that provide customized information acquisitions and adaptations to users based on users contextual information are attracting a lot of attention. Context aware and situation aware services together enhance the perceived quality of the delivered information. Context awareness provides mechanisms for developing adaptive applications and is an important aspect of interactive TV applications. A context aware information retrieval system analyzes a user s history to derive an enhanced context. Context awareness is especially very important during coordination and collaboration. A context aware system retrieves and delivers information of high utility to a user from the point of view collaboration.

Context awareness and context modeling have raised their call for attention and importance quite recently in the world of contact centers for better customer services and relations. To address the issues of contextual reuse and contextual inconsistencies there is a need for context models that foster context reuse and support ease of retrieving right kind of information by providing appropriate abstractions of contextual information. A hybrid context model is defined based on multi level situation theory and ontology.

The growth of digital television over satellite cable as well as terrestrial networks has driven advertisers to better target users by local personalized advertisements that can generate qualified leads for future sales. The advent of personal video recorders and video on demand is viewed as a threat by advertisers as they create ad skippers. As the viewers started evading advertisements ad agencies compete on innovative ways to ensure their ads are viewed. There is a strong need to re work on TV advertising to create innovative features that can exploit advertisement opportunities and ad targeting is important in this scenario. Similarly in a mobile scenario there are excellent opportunities to target ads to enhance return on investment for the sponsors. The proposed invention addresses this need for content targeting in a variety of scenarios such as a web based collaborations b enterprise information retrieval c mobile environments d TV environments and e contact centers.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 212 314 to Borchers Gregory E. Vancouver Wash. Owen James E. Vancouver Wash. for Context based adaptive image processing issued on May 1 2007 and assigned to Sharp Laboratories of America Inc. Camas Wash. describes a method for context based processing of print data.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 169 997 to Papierniak Karen A. St. Paul Minn. Thaisz James E. Lincroft N.J. Chiang Luo Jen Freehold N.J. Shah Paresh B. North Plainfield N.J. for Method and apparatus for forming subject context map and presenting Internet data according to the subject map issued on Jan. 2 2001 and assigned to NCR Corporation Dayton Ohio describes a method and apparatus for correlating web page files HTML SHTML DHTML or CGI files with subject areas such as sports news entertainment restaurant shopping computing business health family travel and weather to enable the presentation of data in a format meaningful to management and business operation.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 321 824 to Nesbitt David W. Adamstown Md. for Presenting a travel route using more than one presentation style issued on Jan. 22 2008 and assigned to AOL LLC Dulles Va. describes techniques are provided for presenting a route in a manner that emphasizes the route and provides context information and in this manner the map may both emphasize the route and provide context information for the route.

 Architectural Improvement by use of Strategic Level Domain Driven Design by Landre E. Wesenberg H. and R nneberg H. appeared in the Proceedings of OOPSLA 2006 ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages and Applications Portland USA October 2006 describes the role of contexts and their relationships in analysis of encountered problems to determine the cause of the problems.

 Context Map A method to represent the interactions between students learning and multiple context factors by Lee G. and Bao L. appeared in the Proceedings of PERC August 2002 describes a tool called context map that provides a geographical representation of the effects and interactions of multiple context factors on students learning.

 Towards a better understanding of context and context awareness by Dey A. K. and Abowd G. D. appeared in Handheld and Ubiquitous Computing H. W. Gellersen Ed. Springer Berlin pp. 304 307 1999 provides a survey of a variety of context aware computing and describes the results related to the definitions and categories of context and context aware.

 CART An Information System for Context Aware Information Access during Synchronous Web based Collaborations by Harish K. Srividya Gopalan Sridhar V. Krithi Ramamritham appeared in Proceedings of the 2nd IASTED International Conference on Communications Internet Information Technology CIIT 2003 Nov. 17 19 2003 Scottsdale Ariz. USA describes a context aware system that retrieves and delivers information of high utility to a user from the point of view collaboration CART Context Aware ReTrieval .

 Context Aware Retrieval in Web Based Collaborations by Harish K. Srividya Gopalan Sridhar V. Krithi Ramamritham appeared in Proceedings of Workshop on Context Modeling and Reasoning CoMoRea at 2nd IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communication PerCom 04 Mar. 14 2004 Orlando Fla. describes a context aware information retrieval system that retrieves and presents information of high utility to a user taking into account the user s implicit need for information capabilities of the user s access device and other resource constraints of the user.

 Internet based Multimodal Collaboration through Context Aware Information Dissemination by Harish K. Srividya Gopalan Sridhar V. Krithi Ramamritham appeared in Proceedings of the 8th IASTED International Conference on Internet Multimedia Systems Applications IMSA 2004 Aug. 16 18 2004 Kauai Hi. USA describes an extended Context Aware ReTrieval CART to analyze a user s history to derive an enhanced context and this is used to predict and prefetch information.

 Context Aware Personalized Ad Insertion in an Interactive TV Environment by Amit T. Srividya Gopalan and Sridhar V appeared in the Proceedings of TV 04 the 4th Workshop on Personalization in Future TV Methods Technologies Applications for Personalized TV in conjunction with Adaptive Hypermedia 2004 Eindhoven The Netherlands Aug. 23 2004 describes an architecture for context aware real time selection and insertion of advertisements into the live broadcast stream by taking into consideration the user s current and past contextual information.

 Hybrid Context Model based on Multilevel Situation Theory and Ontology for Contact Centers by Anupama Kalyan Srividya Gopalan and Sridhar V. appeared in 2nd International Workshop on Context Modeling and Reasoning CoMoRea 05 Mar. 12 2005 In conjunction with the Third IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications PerCom 2005 Kauai Island Hi. Mar. 8 12 2005 describes a hybrid context model based on multi level situation theory and ontology so as to enable consistent contextual reasoning. The context model is hybrid in the sense that the proposed multilevel situation theory is defined based on the entities entity attributes and entity relationships as described in the contact center ontology.

The known systems do not address the various issues related to the automated identification of complete contextual information about say users. The present invention provides a system and method for addressing these issues in order to efficiently generate contextual information for use in context aware reasoning and processing.

The primary objective of the invention is to determine contextual information associated with a user or customer or individual.

One aspect of the invention is to use customer specific transactions and customer related ontology to determine customer specific context map.

Another aspect of the invention is to use customer specific raw transactions and customer related ontology to determine customer specific entities.

Yet another aspect of the invention is to use customer specific transactions and customer related ontology to determine customer specific entities.

Context map is an abstraction of the various activities performed by an individual that summarily provides the interesting aspects about the individual. Such a context map finds utility in multiple application scenarios in a contact center to help resolve problems posed by the individual and in this scenario the context map related to products and agents also play a role in the problem resolution process in a mobile phone scenario ad targeting is very effective when the context map of the individual is used in the targeting process in a set top box scenario the context map helps in providing personalized services and finally in a collaboration scenario the context map of the involved individuals are used to provide relevant information during collaboration on the shared whiteboard.

The basis for a context map is a set of transactions activities performed by an individual. For example in a contact center scenario the examples transactions activities include a a call by the individual to a contact center describing a problem to an agent b the products services bought subscribed by the individual c the overall products services portfolio and d the new features added to a product. Similarly in a mobile phone scenario the transactions activities include a a voice conversation with a friend b sending of a text message c taking a snap using the built in camera and d browsing a web page using the mobile phone. Several of these scenarios require deep analysis of transactions and domain ontology plays an important role in this analysis. Ontology supports domain specific information and comprises of entities and relations that are needed to represent an area of knowledge. Such knowledge representation aids in exploration of information space using the entities properties of the entities and relation between entities.

Further the context map also contains derived entities that are part of the dictionary associated with the domain. Similarly the context map also contains derived relationships that are of standard type such as MoreOf and augmented relationships such as Takes MoreFrequently.

Step is related to the selection of relationships. Let R be a relation given CO and its XML description Rd provides for i entities E E . . . Er involved in R ii attributes Ai Ai . . . Aix associated with each entity Ei that are relevant with respect to R iii expected correlation among the attributes of the entities Step A . Generate a table Tr with as many attributes of as many entities instantiated as possible given ECOk Step B . Note that in each tuple some of the attributes may be left unspecified. Further wherever required normalize the attribute values so as to enable more appropriate correlation. Let Rc Cd Cd . . . Cdm specify multiple correlations based on involved entities and attributes Step C . Note that Cdi is a relation expression and satisfying of the relation expression by a tuple in Tr implies correlation with respect to Cdi. Given Rc and Tr evaluate each Cdi with respect to CDB and CEDB and measure correlation coefficient as follows Step D 

Aci is an absolute measure and is defined as Total number of tuples satisfying Cdi Total number of tuples with respect to Cdi in Tr 

Obtain a raw data transaction also called as informal transaction from RDB Step and this raw data transaction is appropriately analyzed Step . In case the raw data happens to be a voice data say a voice call made an automatic speech recognition is performed on audio data to extract relevant keywords KW KW . . . KWx Step . Similarly in case the raw data happens to be text data say obtained from a sent text message the text is analyzed to extract keywords KW KW . . . KWy Step . Finally if the raw data happens to be image data say an image captured using a phone camera the image is analyzed using image processing techniques to extract keywords KW KW . . . KWz Step . Note that in each of the above cases customer specific ontology play a role in the keyword extraction process. For each extracted keyword KWi Step map KWi onto an entity Ej or an attribute Aj of entity Ek based on CO Step and a database of entity counts is suitably updated Step . Select an entity from the database of entity counts and make it part of CEDB if the update count of the entity exceeds a pre defined threshold or the count of each of the attributes of the entity exceeds a pre defined threshold.

Thus a system and method for customer specific context map creation is disclosed. Although the present invention has been described particularly with reference to the figures it will be apparent to one of the ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may appear in any number of systems that perform customer specific transaction analysis. It is further contemplated that many changes and modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

