---

title: Methods of header compression within a wireless communications network
abstract: Embodiments of the invention disclose header compression within a wireless communications network. In an example, the method includes establishing, between an access network and an access terminal, a flow identifier (ID) and mapping protocol to support header compression for packets sent to the access network from the access terminal and intended for an application server. The mapping protocol can be configured to convert packets including the flow ID into packets that conform with a given addressing protocol for routing to the application server. The access terminal sends and the access network receives a first packet of a stream of packets. The first packet includes the flow ID and is in a compressed format compared to that of the same packet conforming with the given addressing protocol. The access network converts the received first packet into a routing packet based on the mapping protocol that conforms with the given addressing protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08867566&OS=08867566&RS=08867566
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08867566
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080820
---
Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention are related to header compression within a wireless communications network. In an example the method includes establishing between an access network and an access terminal a flow identifier ID and mapping protocol to support header compression for packets sent to the access network from the access terminal and intended for an application server e.g. a push to talk PTT server . The mapping protocol can be configured to convert packets including the flow ID into packets that conform with a given addressing protocol e.g. IPv4 IPv6 etc. for routing to the application server. The access terminal sends and access network receives a first packet of a stream of packets wherein the first packet includes the flow ID and is in a compressed format compared to that of the same packet conforming with the given addressing protocol. The access network converts the received first packet into a routing packet based on the mapping protocol. The converted routing packet conforms with the given addressing protocol. The access network then forwards the converted routing packet to the application server based on the given addressing protocol.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In of a given AT within system determines whether to contact e.g. send one or more packets to the application server . For example if the given AT has received an announce message for a multicast session and decides to participate in the announced multicast or push to talk PTT session the given AT determines in to contact the application server . In another example if the given AT has received an announce message for a unicast session and decides to answer the unicast call the given AT determines in to contact the application server . In yet another example the given AT can determine to initiate contact with the application server on its own. In the given AT determines the internet protocol IP address of the application server . The IP address of the application server may be determined based on an IP address discovery process e.g. the given AT requests the IP address of the application server via the RAN the IP address of the application server can already be known based on a previous discovery process or the IP address of the application server can be stored locally at the given AT in association with a service offered by the application server e.g. a multicast or PTT service .

In an example if the system is operating in accordance with IP version 4 IPv4 protocols the IP address determined in includes 4 bytes or 32 bits. If the system is operating in accordance with IP version 6 IPv6 protocols a much larger address space e.g. 32 bytes is provided as compared to IPv4 e.g. up to 2potential IP addresses .

Because a relatively large address space is allocated to IPv6 less than all of that address space need be used to uniquely identify network entities e.g. the given AT the application server etc. . Accordingly the IPv6 address space can be viewed as including i a unique addressing portion that identifies a network entity and ii a prefix portion that is not used to identify the network entity.

Returning to in the given AT sends an initial packet to the RAN on an uplink channel e.g. a CDMA common uplink channel such as an Access Channel or Control Channel . The initial packet is sent in an uncompressed format. As will be described in greater detail below conventional compression of address headers is typically invoked only after a first uncompressed address header is sent along with an initial packet. Assuming that the system is configured to implement IPv6 addressing protocols the configuration of the initial packet sent in may be as follows 

wherein S denotes the prefix portion for the source or sending entity of the packet such as the given AT in S denotes the unique addressing portion identifying the given AT D denotes the prefix portion for the destination or target entity of the packet such as the application server in and D denotes the unique addressing portion identifying the application server . The packet further includes a payload or data portion DATA.

In the RAN receives the initial uncompressed packet and forwards the packet to the application server . Next in the given AT can send subsequent packets to the application server via the RAN employing conventional header compression techniques. For example Robust Header Compression RoHC may be used to compress headers of the subsequent packets as is known in the art. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art however conventional header compression methodologies such as ROHC typically require that the initial packet in the data stream be sent in an uncompressed format before compression can be relied upon. Because the initial packets can often be sent on bandwidth limited channels initial uncompressed packets can reduce the amount of available bandwidth on uplink channels.

In the given AT determines the IP address of the application server . The IP address of the application server may be determined based on an IP address discovery process e.g. the given AT requests the IP address of the application server via the RAN the IP address of the application server can already be known based on a previous discovery process or the IP address of the application server can be stored locally at the given AT in association with a service offered by the application server e.g. a multicast or PTT service .

Next in the given AT and the RAN negotiate to determine i a flow identifier ID for identifying packets that are sent by the AT and intended for the application server and ii a mapping protocol to be executed at the RAN for converting packets marked with the flow ID into a format suitable to be routed to the application server . The negotiation of can be implemented with a series of signals transferred between the RAN and the AT. For example the negotiation of can include the given AT sending an uncompressed IPv6 packet to the RAN without a payload or data portion where the RAN responds to the uncompressed IPv6 packet with a flow ID that may be used by the given AT to trigger a conversion at the RAN of a packet sent by the given AT and including the flow ID to the addressing portion indicated by the uncompressed IPv6 packet. In a further example the negotiation of can occur before the given AT actually wishes to communicate with the RAN e.g. before an announce message is received . Alternatively the negotiation of can occur during the first communication session between the given AT and the RAN for packets to be transmitted to the application server .

After the negotiation of the RAN can add the Flow ID for the application server to a lookup table maintained at the RAN which may be stored in association with Flow IDs for one or more other network locations.

In a first example assume that the flow ID established in is equal to the addressing portion for IPv6 packets minus the prefix portions for the source i.e. the given AT and the destination i.e. the application server . In this example the resultant format for packets transmitted by the given AT to the RAN and intended for the application server may be as follows 

Accordingly in the above example the flow ID corresponds to the typical IPv6 addressing portion with the prefix portions S and D being omitted. Further the mapping protocol established in as will be appreciated is to re insert S and D back in their appropriate positions of the packet. As will be further appreciated in order to support the mapping protocol in this example S and D are maintained at the RAN .

In a second example assume that the flow ID established in is dynamically established by the RAN . In this example the resultant format for packets transmitted by the given AT to the RAN and intended for the application server may be as follows 

Accordingly in the above example the flow ID corresponds to any value that may be assigned by the RAN to distinguish transmissions from the given AT that are designated for the application server from other transmissions. Further in this example the mapping protocol established in as will be appreciated is to replace the flow ID number with S S D and D . As will be further appreciated in order to support the mapping protocol in this example S S D and D are maintained at the RAN .

In the RAN and the given AT again negotiate to determine the manner in which the given AT will configure the initial packet to convey to the RAN that the bits of the initial packet correspond to a compressed packet e.g. a compressed IPv6 packet . In an example the RAN can signal to the given AT a compression flag to include in any compressed initial packet. As will be described below the RAN can upon receiving the compressed initial packet check whether the packet includes the compression flag and then map the compressed initial packet to an uncompressed packet via the mapping protocol from if the compression flag is identified.

In an alternative embodiment the compression flag need not be used to convey this information to the RAN . Rather the presence of the Flow ID within the compressed initial packet may be sufficient for the RAN to determine that the bits of the initial packet require decompression. As will be appreciated this embodiment may require the RAN to analyze more bits within the initial packet as compared to an evaluation of only the compression flag to make this determination.

Once the compression flag flow ID and mapping protocols are established in accordance with the process of packets may be transmitted from the given AT as will now be described with respect to .

If the given AT determines to contact the application server the given AT configures an initial packet in a compressed format as described above with respect to . In particular the given AT generates a packet including the Flow ID established in of the data portion and the compression flag established in of . The configuring step further forms the different packet portions in a manner e.g. a given order or arrangement to comply with the mapping protocol established in of .

After configuring the initial packet the given AT transmits the configured packet including the established flow ID in . The RAN receives the transmitted packet and determines whether the received initial packet from the given AT is compressed . For example the RAN can attempt to detect whether the initial packet includes a compression flag indicating that the initial packet is in a compressed format and can base the determination of on whether the compression flag is detected. Alternatively the FlowID included within the data stream can act as a trigger that indicates to the RAN the presence of a compressed packet even without the inclusion of a compression flag. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art if the RAN is unable to detect the compressed nature of the packet the RAN may associate more bits in the data stream with the initial packet than actually belong to the initial packet e.g. if the FlowID compression is 8 bytes versus an uncompressed format having 16 bytes the RAN may extract the full 16 bytes if the RAN is unable to identify the packet as being compressed .

In after determining that the received initial packet is compressed the RAN determines whether a Flow ID is present within the packet. While not illustrated in if the RAN determines that no Flow ID is present within the packet or is unknown the RAN can either ignore the packet and or can notify the given AT that the packet was not received correctly. Otherwise if the RAN determines that the Flow ID is present in the transmitted packet and known to the RAN e.g. via a table lookup established in the RAN maps the packet based on the mapping protocol in in order to generate a mapped packet that is suitable for routing to the application server . In the RAN forwards the mapped packet to the application server . Next in the given AT sends subsequent packets to the application server via the RAN either including the flow ID or alternatively in accordance with conventional header compression e.g. ROHC compression as discussed above . For example in the given AT may select the most efficient available header compression format for the transmission of the subsequent packets.

Further while above described embodiments of the present invention have generally been described with respect to IPv6 addressing protocols it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the present invention may be directed to a compression of any well known addressing protocol such as IPv4. Further while the application server is above described as being a multicast or PTT server it will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention need not be limited to a multicasting or PTT environment. For example as discussed above the packet compression techniques discussed above can be implemented in a unicast environment in a similar manner as a multicast environment. Also with respect to PTT calls the reverse link initial packet transmission can be transmitted either by an originator of the PTT call or by a target AT that receives an announce message for the PTT call.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

