---

title: Determining unambiguous geographic references
abstract: A system receives a search query that includes a set of search terms, determines whether at least one of the search terms corresponds to the name of a geographic area, and determines whether the geographic area corresponds to an unambiguous geographic area when at least one of the search terms corresponds to the name of the geographic area. The system performs a local search, based on one or more of the search terms, to identify documents associated with the geographic area when the geographic area corresponds to an unambiguous geographic area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078601&OS=08078601&RS=08078601
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08078601
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---
This application is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 024 977 filed Dec. 30 2004 entitled LOCATION EXTRACTION now U.S. Pat. No. 7 483 881 B2 issued Jan. 27 2009 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Implementations described herein relate generally to information retrieval and more particularly to the identification of a geographic reference in a search query to assist in local searching.

The World Wide Web web contains a vast amount of information. Locating a desired portion of the information however can be challenging. This problem is compounded because the amount of information on the web and the number of new users inexperienced at web searching are growing rapidly.

Search engines attempt to return hyperlinks to web pages in which a user is interested. Generally search engines base their determination of the user s interest on search terms called a search query entered by the user. The goal of the search engine is to provide links to high quality relevant results e.g. web pages to the user based on the search query. Typically the search engine accomplishes this by matching the terms in the search query to a corpus of pre stored web pages. Web pages that contain the user s search terms are hits and are returned to the user as links.

Local search engines are search engines that attempt to return relevant web pages and or business listings within a specific geographic area. For a local search a user may enter a search query and specify a geographic area near which the search query is to be performed. The local search engine may return relevant results such as relevant web pages pertaining to the geographic area or listings of businesses in the geographic area to the user.

According to one aspect a method may include receiving a search query that includes a set of search terms determining whether at least one of the search terms corresponds to the name of a geographic area and determining whether the geographic area corresponds to an unambiguous geographic area when at least one of the search terms corresponds to the name of the geographic area. The method may also include performing a local search based on one or more of the search terms to identify documents associated with the geographic area when the geographic area corresponds to an unambiguous geographic area.

According to another aspect a method may include receiving a search query that includes a set of search terms determining whether at least one of the search terms corresponds to the name of a geographic area and determining whether the geographic area corresponds to an unambiguous geographic area when at least one of the search terms corresponds to the name of the geographic area. The method may also include presenting an advertisement associated with a business located near or within the geographic area when the geographic area corresponds to an unambiguous geographic area.

According to yet another aspect a computer readable medium may store computer executed instructions including instructions for performing a first web search based on the name of a city in a list of cities to identify a first set of search results instructions for counting the number of the first set of search results instructions for performing a second web search based on the name of the city and the name of a state in which the city is located to identify a second set of search results and instructions for counting the number of the second set of search results. The computer readable medium may also include instructions for identifying the city as an unambiguous city when the number of the second set of search results is at least X of the number of the first set of search results where Xis a number greater than zero.

According to a further aspect a computer readable medium may store computer executable instructions including instructions for performing a web search based on the name of a city in a list of cities to identify a set of search results instructions for counting the number of the set of search results and instructions for counting the number of documents in the set of search results that include postal codes associated with the city. The computer readable medium may also include instructions for identifying the city as an unambiguous city when the number of documents in the set of search results that include postal codes associated with the city is at least X of the number of the set of search results where Xis a number greater than zero.

The following detailed description of the invention refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Sometimes a search query is ambiguous as to whether the user desires documents associated with a local search or a regular web search. It is also sometimes unclear which geographic area the user desires for a local search. To further complicate matters the names of some geographic areas correspond to common words e.g. Mobile .

Systems and methods consistent with the principles of the invention may identify a geographic reference in a search query and determine whether that geographic reference should be used to retrieve local search documents.

A document as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine readable and machine storable work product. A document may include for example an e mail a web site a business listing a file a combination of files one or more files with embedded links to other files a news group posting a blog a web advertisement etc. In the context of the Internet a common document is a web page. Web pages often include textual information and may include embedded information such as meta information images hyperlinks etc. and or embedded instructions such as Javascript etc. . A link as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any reference to from a document from to another document or another part of the same document.

Clients may include client entities. An entity may be defined as a device such as a wireless telephone a personal computer a personal digital assistant PDA a lap top or another type of computation or communication device a thread or process running on one of these devices and or an object executable by one of these devices. Servers may include server entities that gather process search and or maintain documents in a manner consistent with the principles of the invention.

In an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention server may include a search system usable by clients . Server may crawl a corpus of documents e.g. web documents index the documents and store information associated with the documents in a repository of documents. Servers and may store or maintain documents that may be crawled or analyzed by server .

While servers are shown as separate entities it may be possible for one or more of servers to perform one or more of the functions of another one or more of servers . For example it may be possible that two or more of servers are implemented as a single server. It may also be possible for a single one of servers to be implemented as two or more separate and possibly distributed devices.

Network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an intranet the Internet a memory device or a combination of networks. Clients and servers may connect to network via wired wireless and or optical connections.

Processor may include a conventional processor microprocessor or processing logic that interprets and executes instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a conventional ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device may include a conventional mechanism that permits an operator to input information to the client server entity such as a keyboard a mouse a pen voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms etc. Output device may include a conventional mechanism that outputs information to the operator including a display a printer a speaker etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables the client server entity to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

The client server entity consistent with the principles of the invention may perform certain operations as will be described in detail below. The client server entity may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device and or carrier wave.

The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as data storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the principles of the invention. Thus implementations consistent with the principles of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Database may store geographic information such as a list of geographic names e.g. city names state names country names etc. . The geographic information in database may also include a list of valid postal codes e.g. zip codes . Database may also store information that interrelates the geographic information e.g. that indicates which cities correspond to which states which postal codes correspond to which cities which states correspond to which countries etc. .

Location extractor may receive a search query and determine whether the search query includes a geographic reference. In one implementation location extractor may use the geographic information in database to identify whether the search query contains a geographic reference. When the search query includes a geographic reference location extractor may separate the geographic reference from the search terms in the query and send them to local search engine . When the search query does not include a geographic reference location extractor may forward the search terms to web search engine .

Web search engine may include a traditional web search engine that returns a set of documents related to a search query. In operation web search engine may receive the search terms of a search query from location extractor . Web search engine may identify a set of documents that match the search query i.e. documents that contain the set of search terms of the search query by comparing the search terms to documents in a document corpus. Web search engine might score the identified documents sort them based on their scores and output them as a list of search results.

Local search engine may include a specialized search engine such as a business listings search engine. In operation local search engine may receive the search terms and the geographic reference of a search query from location extractor . Local search engine may identify a set of documents that match the search query i.e. documents that contain the set of search terms of the search query by comparing the search terms to documents in a document corpus relating to the geographic area associated with the geographic reference. Local search engine might score the identified documents sort them based on their scores and output them as a list of search results.

Processing may begin with the setting of a variable i equal to one block . Then for each city i in the list of cities contained for example in database block a web search may be performed for the name of the city block . The number of search results for this search may be counted as count block . A web search may also be performed for the name of the city with the name of the corresponding state block which may be identified for example in database . The number of search results for this search may be counted as count block .

It may then be determined whether countis at least X where X is a number greater than zero such as 5 of count block . The theory is that when a document includes the name of a city some fraction of the time the document will also include the name of the corresponding state e.g. approximately 2 3 of the time . When count city state is at least X of count then the city may be considered an unambiguous city block . An unambiguous city may refer to a city whose name can be used alone in a search query and it will be understood that the user intended the city and not something else. A label may be associated with the city in database to identify the city as unambiguous.

To illustrate the above processing suppose that a web search performed for Chicago resulted in a countof 10 000 search results. Suppose further that a web search performed for Chicago Ill. resulted in a countof 350 search results. If X is 5 then Chicago would not be considered an unambiguous city because count 350 is not at least 5 of count 10 000 . By contrast if the web search performed for Chicago Ill. resulted in a countof 550 then Chicago would be considered an unambiguous city because count 550 is at least 5 of count 10 000 .

When countis not at least X of count then it may be determined whether there are any more cities on the list block . If there are more cities on the list then the variable i may be incremented by one block and processing may return to block .

In some situations there may be multiple unambiguous cities with the same name that are considered unambiguous. For example when the above processing is performed for the city Hollywood in Florida it may be determined that Hollywood Fla. is an unambiguous city. When the above processing is performed for the city Hollywood in California it may be determined that Hollywood Calif. is also an unambiguous city. In situations like this the city with the larger or significantly larger population may be labeled as an unambiguous city in database . Alternatively the city with the largest countto countratio may be labeled as an unambiguous city. Any unambiguous label already associated with any other city with the same name in database may be removed.

In other situations it may be beneficial to permit multiple cities with the same name to remain in database . For example multiple cities with the same name may exist in two different countries and be determined to be unambiguous with regard to their respective country. When the above processing is performed for the city Manchester in New Hampshire for example it may be determined that Manchester N.H. is an unambiguous city. When the above processing is performed for the city Manchester in England it may be determined that Manchester England is also an unambiguous city. In situations like this distinctions between the cities may be made when processing a search query that includes the city name as described below.

Processing may begin with the setting of a variable i equal to one block . Then for each city i in the list of cities contained for example in database block a web search may be performed for the name of the city block . The number of search results for this search may be counted as count block .

The documents of the search results may be analyzed to identify any postal codes that they contain block . The postal codes may be identified using a pattern matching technique and verified by comparing them to the list of postal codes in database . It may then be determined whether the postal codes correspond to postal codes associated with city i . The number of documents that contain postal codes associated with city i may be counted as count block . In another implementation the value of countmay be based on the ranking of the documents that contain postal codes associated with city i . For example the documents that contain postal codes associated with city i may be weighted based on their corresponding rank in the search results where higher ranked documents may be weighted more than lower ranked documents. The weight values may then be used to determine count.

It may then be determined whether countis i at least X e.g. 5 of count block . The theory is that when a document includes the name of a city some fraction of the time the document will also include a postal code associated with the city e.g. approximately 2 3 of the time . When countis i at least X of count then the city may be considered an unambiguous city block . A label may be associated with the city in database to identify the city as unambiguous.

To illustrate the above processing suppose that a web search performed for Chicago resulted in a countof 10 000 search result documents. Suppose that 350 of the search result documents contained a postal code associated with the city of Chicago therefore countequals 350. If X is 5 then Chicago would not be considered an unambiguous city because count 350 is not at least 5 of count 10 000 . By contrast if 500 or more of the search result documents contained a postal code associated with the city of Chicago i.e. count 500 then Chicago would be considered an unambiguous city because count 500 is at least 5 of count 10 000 .

When countis i not at least X of count then it may be determined whether there are any more cities on the list block . If there are more cities on the list then the variable i may be incremented by one block and processing may return to block .

While the above processing uses postal codes other types of geographic identifiers may alternatively be used. For example telephone numbers may be used in alternate implementation consistent with the principles of the invention.

In some situations there may be multiple cities with the same name that are considered unambiguous. For example when the above processing is performed for the city Hollywood in Florida it may be determined that Hollywood Fla. is an unambiguous city. When the above processing is performed for the city Hollywood in California it may also be determined that Hollywood Calif. is also an unambiguous city. In situations like this the city with the larger or significantly larger population may be labeled as an unambiguous city in database . Alternatively the city with the largest countto countratio may be labeled as an unambiguous city. Any unambiguous label already associated with any other city with the same name in database may be removed.

In other situations it may be beneficial to permit multiple unambiguous cities with the same name to remain in database . For example multiple cities with the same name may exist in two different countries and be determined to be unambiguous with regard to their respective country. When the above processing is performed for the city Manchester in New Hampshire for example it may be determined that Manchester N.H. is an unambiguous city. When the above processing is performed for the city Manchester in England it may be determined that Manchester England is also an unambiguous city. In situations like this distinctions between the cities may be made when processing a search query that includes the city name as described below.

It may be determined whether the search query includes a geographic reference block . In one implementation the search query may be parsed and analyzed against a set of templates of the form query city state query city query postal code query city state postal code city state query city query postal code query city state postal code query etc. A search query that includes a geographic reference may match one of these templates.

When parsing and analyzing the search query it is possible to encounter ambiguity. For example when a user provides the search query pizza in New York the user could intend a search for pizza in New in the city of York Pa. or a search for pizza in the city of New York N.Y. In one implementation when there are two or more interpretations for geographical names in a search query New York and York the longer interpretation i.e. New York rather than York may be selected. In addition if multiple geographical components are included in the search query e.g. city state postal code then the interpretation that is more consistent with the other geographical components may be selected.

If the search query does not include a geographic reference then a regular web search may be performed based on the search term s of the query blocks and . If on the other hand the search query includes a geographic reference it may be determined whether the geographic reference corresponds to a city name alone i.e. without any other geographic information such as no state or postal code information block . If the search query includes a geographic reference other than a city name alone then a local search may be performed based on the search term s of the query and the geographic reference if the geographic reference is not ambiguous block . For example if the geographic reference includes a state name in addition to a city name or includes a postal code then a local search may be performed based on the geographic reference. If the geographic reference includes a state name alone then the geographic reference may be considered ambiguous. In this case a regular web search may be performed based on the search term s of the query.

If the search query includes a geographic reference corresponding to a city name alone then it may be determined whether the city corresponds to an unambiguous city block . As explained above an unambiguous city may include an appropriate label in database . If the city does not correspond to an unambiguous city then a regular web search may be performed based on the search term s of the query block .

If the city corresponds to an unambiguous city then it may be determined whether the city name together with one or more other search terms of the query appear on a blacklist block . In one implementation a blacklist may be maintained for unambiguous city names that when combined with one or more other words mean something other than their respective cities. For example assume that the city of Orlando Fla. is an unambiguous city. When Orlando appears in a search query with the word Bloom however the user likely desires information associated with the actor Orlando Bloom and not information concerning flower shops in the city of Orlando. If the city name together with one or more other search terms of the query appear on the blacklist then a regular web search may be performed based on the search term s of the query block .

If the city name together with one or more other search terms of the query does not appear on the blacklist then a local search may be performed based on the search term s and the geographic reference of the query block . In some situations there may be multiple cities with the same name that are located in the same state e.g. there are two Mountain Views in California . In situations like this the city with the larger or significantly larger population may be identified as the city that the user intended. Alternatively the user s Internet Protocol IP address or another indicator of the user s location may be used to identify where the user is located as is known in the art and select one of the cities based on this determination. In other situations there may be multiple cities with the same name that are located in different countries e.g. Manchester N.H. and Manchester England and were identified as unambiguous as described above. In these situations the user s IP address or another indicator of the user s location may be used to identify where the user is located as is known in the art and select one of the cities based on this determination.

Search results either web or local may be formed based on the web or local search. For example the documents identified based on the search may be scored and sorted based on their scores. The search results may then be presented to the user via client block .

It may be possible as a result of the city not corresponding to an unambiguous city block or the city name with one or more other search terms of the query appearing on the blacklist block to suggest a local search. For example in addition to presenting the web search results a link to local search results may be presented. If the link is selected a local search may be performed. If two or more cities are equally appealing for the local search then two or more local search links may be presented. For example if the search query contained the word Hollywood and either Hollywood did not correspond to an unambiguous city or Hollywood appeared on the blacklist with another word in the query then a local search link may be presented for a local search associated with Hollywood Calif. and another local search link may be presented for a local search associated with Hollywood Fla.

It may be determined whether the search query includes a geographic reference block . In one implementation the search query may be analyzed against a set of templates as described above. A search query that includes a geographic reference may match one of these templates.

If the search query does not include a geographic reference then regular advertisements may be presented blocks and . Many techniques are known in the art for selecting advertisements to present in relation to a search query. In another implementation it may be determined whether an indicator of the user s location such as the user s IP address is available. When an indicator of the user s location is available then local advertisements may be presented as known in the art based on the user s location.

If on the other hand the search query includes a geographic reference it may be determined whether the geographic reference corresponds to a city name alone i.e. without any other geographic information such as no state or postal code information block . If the search query includes a geographic reference other than a city name alone then local advertisements may be presented as known in the art if the geographic reference is not ambiguous block . For example if the geographic reference includes a state name in addition to a city name or includes a postal code then local advertisements may be presented based on the geographic reference. If the geographic reference includes a state name alone then the geographic reference may be considered ambiguous. In this case regular advertisements may be presented.

If the search query includes a geographic reference corresponding to a city name alone then it may be determined whether the city corresponds to an unambiguous city block . As explained above an unambiguous city may include an appropriate label in database . If the city does not correspond to an unambiguous city then regular advertisements may be presented block .

If the city corresponds to an unambiguous city then it may be determined whether the city name with one or more other search terms of the query appear on a blacklist block . As explained above a blacklist may be maintained for unambiguous city names that when combined with one or more words mean something other than their respective cities. If the city name with one or more other search terms of the query appear on the blacklist then regular advertisements may be presented block .

If the city name with one or more other search terms of the query does not appear on the blacklist then local advertisements may be presented based on the geographic reference of the query block . In some situations there may be multiple cities with the same name that are located in the same state e.g. there are two Mountain Views in California . In situations like this the city with the larger or significantly larger population may be identified as the city that the user intended. Alternatively the user s IP address or another indicator of the user s location may be used to identify where the user is located as is known in the art and select one of the cities based on this determination. In other situations there may be multiple cities with the same name that are located in different countries e.g. Manchester N.H. and Manchester England and were identified as unambiguous as described above. In these situations the user s IP address or another indicator of the user s location may be used to identify where the user is located as is known in the art and select one of the cities based on this determination.

When presenting local targeted advertisements information concerning the user s location such as the user s IP address may be used to determine whether that location is within a predetermined distance e.g. 500 miles of the location corresponding to the geographic reference. When the user s location is within the predetermined distance then local advertisements may be presented. When the user s location is outside the predetermined distance however then regular advertisements may be presented.

As described above the search system may perform template matching to determine whether the search query includes a geographic reference. In this case the search system may determine that Fairfax corresponds to a geographic reference that corresponds to a city name alone. Initially assume that the city of Fairfax Va. is an unambiguous city that does not appear on a blacklist with the word maternity and or the word dress. Accordingly the search system may perform a local search for documents relating to the search terms maternity dress in the Fairfax Va. area.

As shown in the search system via a user interface may present local search results and or local advertisements . For each document in local search results or some subset of the documents in local search results the user interface may provide address information for the business associated with the document a telephone number for the business a snippet from the document or another document associated with the business a link to more information associated with the business a link to directions to the business and or a link to one or more documents that refer to the business. The user interface may also provide a map of the area covered by the search. The map may optionally include pointers to businesses associated with local search results or some set of local search results . For each local advertisement the user interface may provide a link to a document associated with the advertisement and perhaps a snippet from the document that includes one or more of the search terms.

Now assume that the city of Fairfax is not an unambiguous city or appears on a blacklist with the word maternity and or the word dress. Accordingly the search system may perform a web search for documents relating to the search terms maternity dress fairfax. 

As shown in the search system via a user interface may present web search results regular advertisements and optionally a local search suggestion . For each search result the user interface may provide a link to a web document and perhaps a snippet from that document that includes one or more of the search terms. For each advertisement the user interface may provide a link to a document associated with the advertisement and perhaps a snippet from the document that includes one or more of the search terms.

For local search suggestion the user interface may provide a Local results for maternity dress near Fairfax Va. link that may cause a local search to be performed for documents relating to one or more of the search terms maternity dress in the Fairfax Va. area. For local search suggestion the user interface may also provide individual links to one or more local documents that would be identified by the local search. In one implementation one or more links corresponding to the highest scoring document s in the local search results may be presented.

It has been described that an unambiguous city is identified when the number of search results corresponding to a search for the city with its corresponding state or the number of search results including postal codes associated with the city is at least X of the number of search results for the city alone. In another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention degrees of unambiguous ness may be established.

For example when as described above the number of search results corresponding to a search for the city with its corresponding state or the number of search results including postal codes associated with the city is at least X e.g. 5 of the number of search results for the city alone then the city may be regarded as unambiguous and a local search may be performed when it is included in a search query similar to that described above.

When on the other hand the number of search results corresponding to a search for the city with its corresponding state or the number of search results including postal codes associated with the city is less than X e.g. 5 but greater than Y where Y is a number less than X such as 3 of the number of search results for the city alone then the city may be regarded as semi unambiguous and a regular web search may be performed when it is included in a search query. In this case a local search may be suggested similar to that described above with regard to .

When the number of search results corresponding to a search for the city with its corresponding state or the number of search results including postal codes associated with the city is less than Y e.g. 3 of the number of search results for the city alone then the city may be regarded as ambiguous and a regular web search may be performed when it is included in a search query. In this case no local search may be performed or suggested.

Systems and methods consistent with the principles of the invention may identify a geographic reference in a search query and determine whether that geographic reference should be used to retrieve local search documents.

The foregoing description of preferred embodiments of the present invention provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

For example while series of acts have been described with regard to the order of the acts may be modified in other implementations consistent with the principles of the invention. Further non dependent acts may be performed in parallel.

Also the processing of has been described with regard to cities. The above processing may also be applicable to geographic areas other than cities such as towns counties etc.

Further exemplary user interfaces have been described with respect to . In other implementations consistent with the principles of the invention the user interfaces may include more fewer or different pieces of information.

It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that aspects of the invention as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects consistent with the principles of the invention is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

