---

title: Source-based alert when streaming media of live event on computer network is of current interest and related feedback
abstract: A streaming video search engine may allow prospective viewers to locate at least one streaming video that is currently of interest from among several streaming videos. The engine may include a network interface configured to receive source alerts from real time streaming video capture, delivery, and alert systems, a memory system, a processing system, a searching system, and a viewer interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930420&OS=07930420&RS=07930420
owner: University of Southern California
number: 07930420
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
This application is based upon and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 946 061 entitled H EAAFSFIOCIVA N filed Jun. 25 2007 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 816 751 entitled H EAAFSFIOCIVA N filed Jun. 26 2006 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 757 682 6 721 744 and 6 556 989. The content of both of these provisional applications and all three of these patents is incorporated herein by reference.

This application relates to streaming media of live events search engines and computer networks including the Internet.

The Internet continues to grow rapidly as a source of information and entertainment. The number of sources is also rapidly growing. This is in large part attributable to the ease at which organizations and even individuals can make information and entertainment available on the Internet.

Internet search engines such as Google and Yahoo are of great help in locating information and entertainment that may be of interest. Unfortunately traditional search engines may not be updated frequently enough to enable viewers to locate streaming media of live events when they are of interest.

Other efforts have been made to assist viewers in finding such streaming media as illustrated by the systems and methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 757 682 6 721 744 and 6 556 989. The technology described in these patents relies upon viewers of streaming media to issue viewer alerts when the streaming media reaches a point that is likely to be of interest to others. Prospective viewers interested in a particular type of content may then utilize a streaming media search engine to locate streaming media of live events having content of a type that is of interest based on viewer alerts that have recently been issued.

Although helpful systems of this type can fall short of providing prospective viewers with complete and timely information about the full spectrum of streaming media of live events that may be of interest. For example the content of the streaming media may change so quickly as to make a viewer alert untimely. Until a viewer stumbles upon and issues a first alert in connection with streaming media that might be of interest moreover that streaming media may not even be known to the streaming media search engine.

A real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system may capture a streaming video of a live event and deliver it into a computer network as the live event is being captured. The system may include a camera a network interface a source operator interface and a processing system.

The network interface may be configured to controllably deliver into the computer network the streaming video while it is being generated by the camera and a source alert indicative of the streaming video being currently of interest to others including descriptive information that is descriptive of the streaming video.

The source operator interface may be configured to receive the source alert including the descriptive information from an operator of the system before the network interface commences delivering the streaming video into the computer network. The processing system may be configured to cause the network interface to commence delivering the streaming video into the computer network while it is being generated by the camera and at the commencement or shortly before the delivering of the streaming video into the computer network to deliver the source alert into the computer network including the descriptive information.

The source operator interface may be configured to receive the source alert from an operator of the system indicating that the live event is at a point which is currently of interest to prospective viewers after the network interface commences delivering the streaming video into the computer network. The processing system may be configured to cause the network interface to deliver into the computer network the streaming video while it is being generated by the camera and the source alert when it is received from the operator after the network interface commences delivering the streaming video into the computer network.

The network interface may be configured to receive feedback from the computer network relating to the streaming video and the source operator interface may be configured to communicate that feedback to the operator. The feedback may include the number of viewers currently viewing the streaming video a ranking of the streaming video among streaming videos from other systems and or real time comments from viewers of the streaming video.

The network interface may be configured to address the streaming video so that it is delivered over the network to a streaming video distribution server and to address the source alert including the descriptive information so that it is delivered over the network to a streaming video search engine. The streaming video distribution server and the streaming video search engine may be at the same Internet domain.

The system may be part of a mobile phone which is configured under the control of the processing system to dial a pre programmed phone number and to thereafter deliver the streaming video and the source alert including the descriptive information to a system that answers this dialed call for processing.

The network interface may be configured to deliver multiple source alerts into the computer network each indicating that the live event is at a point which is currently of interest to prospective viewers. The source operator interface may be configured to receive the multiple source alerts from the operator after the network interface commences delivering the streaming video into the computer network. The processing system may be configured to cause the network interface to deliver into the computer network the multiple source alerts when each is received from the operator after the network interface commences delivering the streaming video into the computer network.

The source alert may be automated. A sensor system may be configured to sense a condition that is indicative of the live event being at a point which is currently of interest to prospective viewers after the network interface commences delivering the streaming video into the computer network and to generate the source alert based on the sensed condition.

A streaming video search engine may allow prospective viewers to locate at least one streaming video that is currently of interest from among several streaming videos. Each streaming video may be of a live event that is being delivered from a real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system into a computer network as the live event is changing. The engine may include a network interface a memory system a processing system a searching system and a viewer interface.

The network interface may be configured to receive source alerts from a computer network. A source alert may indicate that a real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system will shortly begin or has just begun to deliver a streaming video of a live event that is currently of interest as it is being captured by the streaming video capture delivery and alert system. A source alert may indicate that a streaming video that is being delivered into a computer network by a real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system is at a point after commencement of the streaming video that is currently of interest. Each source alert may include descriptive information originating from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system that is descriptive of the streaming video along with source information identifying a network source from where the streaming video may be obtained in real time.

The memory system may be configured to controllably store the descriptive information and the source information.

The processing system may be configured to cause the memory system to store the description information and the source information in a manner that associates the descriptive information from each real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system with the source information for the streaming video from that real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system.

The searching system may be configured to locate source information about at least one of the streaming videos that is of interest to each prospective viewer based on the descriptive information that is stored in the memory system and search criteria supplied by each prospective viewer that is applied to the descriptive information.

The viewer interface may be configured to communicate to each prospective viewer the source information located by the searching system.

The viewer interface may be configured to receive viewer alerts from viewers of a streaming video each indicative of the viewer concluding that the streaming video is currently of interest to other perspective viewers. The viewer interface may rank a plurality of the streaming videos based at least in part on the viewer alerts.

The viewer interface may be configured to rank a plurality of the streaming videos based at least in part of the number of viewers that are viewing the plurality of streaming videos.

The network interface may be configured to deliver feedback to each real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system relating to the streaming video from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system.

The viewer interface may be configured to receive a comment from each viewer about a streaming video that is being viewed by the viewer. The feedback to each real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system may include the comments from viewers of the streaming video being delivered by the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system the number of viewers currently viewing the streaming video from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system and or a ranking of the streaming video from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system among other streaming videos.

The engine may be configured to operate in conjunction with a viewer communication server configured to allow viewers of the same streaming video to communicate among themselves on a common communication channel. The common communication channel may be an audio channel.

Although having been described in connection with streaming video the engine may be used in connection with any other type of streaming media.

These as well as other components steps features objects benefits and advantages will now become clear from a review of the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments the accompanying drawings and the claims.

Illustrative embodiments are now discussed. Other embodiments may be used in addition or instead. Details that may be apparent or unnecessary may be omitted to save space or for a more effective presentation. Conversely some embodiments may be practiced without all of the details that are disclosed.

As shown in one or more mobile phones such as mobile phone may be configured to communicate wirelessly with one or more mobile phone networks such as mobile phone network . In turn each mobile phone network such as the mobile phone network may be configured to communicate with a different type of computer network such as the Internet . This may be accomplished by using a gateway or any other type of device.

One or more other types of wireless communication devices such as a wireless instant messaging device may similarly be configured to communicate wirelessly with one or more wireless instant messaging device networks such as wireless instant messaging device network . In turn each wireless instant messaging device network such as wireless instant messaging device network may be configured to communicate with a different type of computer network such as the Internet . This may be accomplished by using a gateway or any other type of device.

Other types of communication devices may also be configured to communicate with a network such as the Internet . One example is webcams such as webcam . A webcam such as the webcam may be mounted on any structure such as a building pole tree vehicle or computer monitor. The webcam may be incorporated in a larger device such as a lap top computer.

Each of these devices such as the mobile phone the wireless instant messaging device and the webcam may each include or be part of a real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system.

The camera may be any type of device that is configured to generate streaming video of a live event. This streaming video may or may not include audio. When audio is included the camera may include a sound capturing device such as a microphone to capture sound that is present in the vicinity of the live event. The audio that becomes part of the streaming video may in addition or instead include pre recorded audio such as music. The phrase streaming video as used herein is intended to embrace streams that consist of video and audio or only video.

The video portion of a streaming video may consist of rapidly changing frames e.g. 30 frames per second or frames that only change on a less frequent bases e.g. 1 frame per minute . The camera may be configured to deliver frames at any desired rate.

The source operator interface may be configured to deliver and receive information of the type described herein as well as any other type to and from any operator of the system. The operator may be a person who is manipulating or manning or has custody of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system a person that is within the live event being captured by the camera and or any other person that delivers or receives information from the interface source operator . The source operator interface may include a display a sound generating device such as a loudspeaker or headphone one or more lights such as LED s a keyboard mechanical buttons a touch screen a mouse a microphone and or any other type of user interface device. The source operator interface may be displayed in response to a operator selecting a particular software application program such as a webcam application from among an array of software application programs. This selection may be made by way of a menu command and or through any other means.

The network interface may be configured to deliver and or receive information into and or from a computer network including information of the type discussed herein. The network interface may include hardware and software appropriate for performing these functions as well as other functions described herein.

The processing system may be configured to perform the functions that are described herein. It may include hardware and software appropriate for performing these functions including processors memories permanent storage operating systems and software application programs.

As illustrated in the Issue Alert window may include a drop down combo box which the operator may use to select a category that is descriptive of the live event in some way. The Issue Alert window may include a text box in which the operator may enter further information that is descriptive of the live event in some way.

The drop down combo box and the text box are merely illustrative of a broad variety of interface elements that may used to prompt the operator to enter descriptive information that is descriptive of the live event and to receive that information form the operator. In another embodiment for example the operator may select several descriptive categories. Some or all of the category selections may be part of a hierarchical menu system. Other interface elements may be used in addition or instead such as radio buttons and or pick lists. Although the text box is illustrated as having been completed with a description in the form of a sentence other structures may be used in addition or instead. For example the operator may be queried to enter descriptive keywords or tags without being restricted to choosing from a pre determined set. Although the operator is prompted in to enter both free form words and to pick from a list the Issue Alert window may only prompt the operator to enter just one or the other but not both.

The Issue Alert window may prompt the operator to provide other types of descriptive information. For example the Issue Alert window may prompt a operator to provide an importance assessment relating to the live event such as a numerical assessment of the perceived importance or likely interest in the live event at the time the assessment is entered or at a later time.

In other embodiments the Issue Alert window may not present the operator with any prompt or means to enter descriptive information or even it does may not require the operator to enter such descriptive information.

After the operator enters the descriptive information in the Issue Alert window the operator may activate the Issue Alert Now button . This may be done immediately or the operator may wait until the live event reaches a point that is of significant interest to others. This may cause the source alert including the descriptive information to be delivered to the network interface .

The source operator interface may communicate information of the type discussed above to the network interface through means other than or in addition to the Issue Alert window . For example the source operator interface may include one or more mechanical buttons for the operator to actuate and or may receive voice input and or input through other means.

In response to actuation of the Issue Alert Now button the processing system may be configured to cause the network interface to deliver the source alert including the descriptive information which the operator has entered in the Issue Alert window into a computer network such as the mobile phone network the wireless instant messaging device network the Internet or any other type of computer network.

The processing system may also in response to actuation of the Issue Alert Now Button cause the camera to commence capturing the live event by generating streaming video reflective of the live event. This may take place immediately upon actuation of the Issue Alert Now Button or a pre programmed period of time later. The processing system may cause this streaming video to be delivered into the computer network by the network interface as the streaming video is being generated by the camera . In the event that the processing system causes the capturing to commence immediately following activation of the Issue Alert Now Button the streaming video may begin to be delivered into the commuter network immediately following issuance of the source alert or contemporaneously with it. In the event that the processing system causes the capturing to commence a pre programmed period of time after actuation of the Issue Alert Now Button the source alert may still be delivered into the computer network as soon as the Issue Alert Now Button is actuated at a later time or only when the streaming video is about to be captured and delivered.

The network interface may be configured to deliver the streaming video to multiple viewers simultaneously. In this event the source operator interface may be configured to communicate with each of these viewers in order to exchange the types of information that may be needed to effectuate this multi viewer streaming such as the address of the network interface and or the address of each viewer.

In other embodiments the network interface may not be capable of delivering the streaming video to multiple viewers or may not have been set up to do so. In these embodiments the network interface may be configured to deliver a single instance of the streaming video to another device which may perform the distribution to multiple viewers such as to a streaming video distribution server . In the event that the network interface is part of a device which is isolated from the streaming video distribution server by another network such as the mobile phone the network interface may be configured to deliver the streaming video so that it is received by the intervening network system such as the mobile phone network in the case of the mobile phone such that the intervening network redirects the streaming video to the streaming video distribution server . In the case of the mobile phone all or portions of this addressing may be performed by a target device that the mobile phone reached by dialing the pre programmed number discussed above.

The processing system may cause the network interface to address the source alert including the descriptive information so that it is delivered to another system such as to a real time streaming video search engine . In the event that the mobile phone is being used for example the processing system may cause the network interface to dial a pre programmed telephone number of a target device that is configured to deliver alerts containing descriptive information that it receives from one or more mobile phones to another system such as to the real time streaming video search engine . In the event that the webcam is being used as another example the processing system may cause the network interface in the webcam to address the descriptive information and the associated identifying information to the other system such as to the real time streaming video search engine .

The processing system may cause the network interface to include with the source alert source information identifying a network source from where the streaming video may be obtained. In some embodiments this may be the address of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems. In other embodiments it may be the address of the streaming video distribution server . In still other embodiments it may be an address at an intervening computer network such as the mobile phone network or the wireless instant messaging device network . In still other embodiments the source alert may not include source information while such information may be added to the source alert by an intervening device such as a station associate with an intervening computer network such as the mobile phone network or the wireless instant messaging device network .

After the network interface has begun delivering the streaming video into the computer network the operator may issue additional alerts through the source operator interface such as through the use of the Issue Alert window . The operator may do so each time the live event has reached or is about to reach a new point that may again be of interest to others or that may be of interested to a different group than was a previous alert. Each time the processing system may cause the network interface to deliver the source alert into the computer network as soon as the Issue Alert Now button is actuated or at a later time including any new descriptive information which the operator may have provided.

In some embodiments such as in connection with a webcam that continuously provides a video stream of a scene a source alert may not be issued before the streaming video commences. Rather there may only be one or more later source alerts i.e. each time the live event is at a point that currently is of interest.

The quantity of data which may be required to communicate a source alert may be sufficiently small to require only minimal bandwidth. The source alert may also be placed by the network interface or by another device which propagates it in a channel and or stream that is separate from the video stream that is delivered into the network.

Returning back to one or more viewer stations such as a viewer station may be communicatively coupled to a network such as the Internet . The viewer stations may be coupled through wired connections wireless connections and or a combination of both. The viewer stations may include general purpose computers programmed to participate in one or more of the applications that are described herein or may include computers that are dedicated to performing one or more of these applications. One or more of the viewer stations may include software and hardware appropriate for communicating with websites on the Internet and or for viewing and or listening to streaming media such as streaming video received over the Internet . They may include one or more displays keyboards mice processing systems and sound reproducing devices. One or more of the viewer stations may be at a fixed location or may be mobile.

The streaming video distribution server may be configured to facilitate the distribution of one or more streaming videos to one or more viewers. The streaming video distribution server may be connected to any type of computer network such as to the Internet . It may be configured to receive streaming videos from one or more sources such as from the mobile phone network the wireless instant messaging device network the webcam or any other communication device and to distribute replicas of these streaming videos in real time to one or more viewers. The streaming video distribution server may include appropriate network interfaces to facilitate these functions as well as appropriate viewer interfaces to facilitate receiving requests for specific video streams from viewers. Although only one streaming video distribution server is illustrated in there may be several each distributing different streaming videos.

As shown in the real time streaming video search engine may include a network interface . The network interface may be configured to receive the source alerts including the descriptive information from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems.

The network interface may also be configured to receive source information identifying a network source from which each streaming video may be obtained. In some cases the source of the streaming video may be the network address of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system. In other cases it may be the address of a streaming video distribution server which is distributing this streaming video such as the streaming video distribution server . This source information may come from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems the streaming video distribution servers an intervening processing system and or elsewhere.

A processing system may be configured to cause the information that is received by the network interface such as the source alerts including the descriptive information and the source information to be stored in a storage system such as the storage system . The storage system may be any type of storage system such as RAM and or hard drives. It may include appropriate software and sub processing systems such as database management systems to structure the information and to facilitate its identification and delivery.

The real time streaming video search engine may include a viewer interface such as a viewer interface . The viewer interface may be configured to communicate information to and or to receive information from viewers of the real time streaming video search engine such as viewers that access the real time streaming video search engine from one or more viewer stations such as the viewer station . The viewer interface may be configured to communicate with these viewers in the ways described below and or in other ways including one or more of the ways described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 757 682 6 721 744 and 6 556 989.

Although limits the viewer to a single category as the descriptive information additional or different types of descriptive information may be received. For example multiple categories may be received a hierarchical menu system may be provided key words may be freely entered without being restricted to a pre determined set and Boolean search equations may be formed based on multiple search criteria. The data which is searched by the searching system may include any or all of the descriptive information which is received from each real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system such as the free form descriptive information that may have been placed in the text box as well as the category selection that may have been made with the drop down combo box .

Other criteria may also factor into the searching which is done by the searching system . As described in more detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 757 682 6 721 744 and 6 556 989 the searching system may search for streaming videos for which no source alert has been received from a real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system but for which one or more viewer alerts have been received by one or more viewers of these streaming videos. As explained in these patents the storage system referred to as a database in these patents may also keep track of other information such as the number of viewers which are viewing each streaming video. The searching system may similarly output information about these other streaming videos even if they are not the subject of any alert or even if they are only the subject of a viewer alert as opposed to a source alert . In still further embodiments criteria other than descriptive information may be used by this searching system to locate streaming videos identified in the storage system .

Information about the matches or close matches that are located by the searching system in the storage system may be communicated to the user through the viewer interface such as in the text box shown in . Any type of information may be displayed such as the descriptions which operators may have provided about the streaming videos in text boxes like the text box . These descriptions may be in the form of a link which points to an address at which the streaming video may be obtained in real time. This address may be the address of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system itself if it is capable of supplying simultaneous streams to multiple viewers the address of a video distribution server which is providing this functionality such as the streaming video distribution server or the address of any other type of device from where the streaming video may be obtained in real time.

Other types of information may be provided in addition or instead of an address such as a full listing of all categories that may have been assigned to the streaming video at the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems comments which may have been provided about the streaming video by one or more other viewers any importance assessments that may have been entered at the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system and or by any of the viewers of the video stream and or any other type of information.

The list of matches may be ranked in an order that may assist the prospective viewer in deciding which particular streaming videos to watch. The ranking may be based upon the number of viewers that are currently viewing the streaming video the importance assessments that may have been assigned to any streaming video at the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system and or by its viewers the number of viewer alerts that may have been issued in connection with the streaming video at the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system and or by viewers and or by any combination of these criteria. The ranking of each match may also be set to automatically decay based on one or more factors such as the age of source alerts and or viewer alerts. Details about particular approaches that may be used are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 757 682 6 721 744 and 6 556 989 and incorporated herein by reference.

The processing system may be configured to cause any ranking that is assigned by the searching system to be communicated to the viewer such as by causing the list of matching descriptions to be displayed in order of their ranking in the text box as illustrated in . All or portions of the information on which the ranking is based could in addition be communicated by stating the ranking along with the description such as in a parenthetical following the description.

In some embodiments the real time streaming video search engine may display any streaming video which the viewer selects from in the text box . In for example site has been selected by the viewer as reflected by its bold and italicized font in the text box and by a frame of the streaming video from this server being displayed in a streaming video window . The viewer may view other matching descriptions by selecting them. The real time streaming video search engine may be configured to display only a single selection at a time as illustrated in or multiple selections.

In order to display a streaming video that is selected the real time streaming video search engine may be configured to communicate with another device that is able to provide a real time copy of the streaming video such as the streaming video distribution server the mobile phone the wireless instant messaging device the webcam and or any other device. The real time streaming video search engine may do so by referring to the source information that was included with the source alert that was associated with the streaming video and stored in the storage system.

In some embodiments the streaming video distribution server and the real time streaming video search engine may be part of the same computer system and thus may be at the same Internet domain. In other embodiments selecting a URL in the text box may merely result in the viewer being redirected to another server such as to the streaming video distribution server at which the viewer may view the desired streaming video.

At any point while a viewer is viewing a streaming video the viewer may be able to actuate an Issue Alert Now button . This may cause a viewer alert to be registered in the storage system which thereafter may be used by the searching system to enhance the ranking of the video when later searched by other viewers particularly when the source alert is relatively fresh.

As part of this viewer alert the viewer may provide his or her own descriptive information such as by selecting a category in a drop down combo box and by then actuating the Issue Alert Now button . Free form tags an importance assessment comments and or any other type of descriptive information may be provided in addition or instead. This descriptive information may similarly be stored in the storage system searched by the searching system when looking for streaming videos of interest to other viewers and or delivered to other viewers who are viewing or are considering viewing this same streaming video.

The viewer interface may allow viewers to issue viewer alerts and provide any of the other types of related information in ways other than have been described above such as in ways that were discussed above in connection with the Issue Alert window .

A viewer of a streaming video may elect to a send a comment to the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system which is providing the streaming video being watched by entering the comment in a text box and thereafter actuating a Send Comment to Source button . The comment may include a request or a suggestion for a change in the live event which is being captured and or a change in the way the event is being captured. In addition to or in lieu of a text box the viewer may be prompted to select one or more pre determined comments. Other ways to receive and deliver such comments may be used in addition or instead such as voice input.

The processing system may be configured to cause the network interface to deliver any comments which viewers may provide after the Send Comment to Source button is actuated to the streaming video capture delivery and alert system that is delivering the streaming video which the viewer is watching.

The processing system may be configured to cause the network interface in addition or instead to deliver other feedback to the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system such as the number of viewers currently watching the streaming video from the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system and or the rank of the streaming video among other streaming videos such as streaming videos being delivered by other real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems.

The source operator interface of each real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system may be configured to communicate this feedback to the operator of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system and or to anyone else. illustrates an example of a Viewer Feedback window that may be part of the source operator interface illustrated in . As shown in a Viewer Feedback window may include a text box listing the number of viewers that are currently viewing the streaming video that is being delivered by the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system a text box setting forth the rank of the streaming video among other streaming videos and a viewer comment text box displaying comments that viewers have made including in this embodiment the time at which each comment was made. Feedback of a different type may be provided in addition or instead.

Although the feedback is illustrated in as being provided in a window the feedback may in addition or instead be provided through other means such as through headphones a loudspeaker and or panel lights.

As explained above source alerts may be issued during a live event when the live event reaches a point that is currently of interest to others. In some embodiments it may be impractical or undesirable for a human to watch a live event and issue a source alert each time the live event becomes of current interest to others. Webcams which are continuously streaming a live event may be an example. In these situations source alerts may be issued by the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system through means other than human intervention.

The sensor system may be configured to sense a condition while a streaming video is being delivered by the network interface into a computer network that is indicative of the live event being at point which is currently of interest to perspective viewers. Upon sensing this condition the processing system may be configured to generate a source alert and to cause the network interface to deliver this source alert into the computer network just as the network interface delivered source alerts in connection with the embodiment discussed above in connection with .

The sensor system may include any type sensor Its choice may depend upon the type of condition which is needed to signal a source alert. For example a movement sensor may be used to automatically signal the appearance of a rare bird landing on a perch. The movement sensor may be an ultrasonic sensor infrared sensor or video recognition software that recognizes the presence of the rare bird within frames captured by the camera . Any other type of sensor may be used in addition or instead such as a temperature sensor smoke sensor humidity sensor vibration sensor or sound sensor. More than a single type of sensor may be used in which case a combination of sensor outputs may be required as a condition of generating a source alert.

Beyond signaling the occurrence of a condition the sensor system may be configured to provide descriptive information which is descriptive of the streaming video such as the temperature humidity amount of vibration of degree of loudness. The processing system may similarly cause the network interface to deliver this descriptive information into the computer network again just like the network interface did in connection with the embodiment discussed above in connection with .

A viewer communication server may be provided as illustrated in . Such a server may be connected to a computer network to which viewer stations are connected such as the viewer station . The viewer communication server may be configured to create separate communication channels one for each streaming video that is being viewed. All viewers watching a particular streaming video may utilize the viewer communication server to communicate among themselves about the streaming video such as through the use of voice comments text messages and or video webcams. In certain embodiments the network interface of the real time streaming video search engine may be configured to cause viewer communication from the viewer communication server to be delivered to the source operator interface of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system that is delivering the streaming video to which the viewer communication channel has been assigned so that this communication can be monitored at the viewer camera system. In certain embodiments the operator of the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert system may be allowed to participate in the viewer communication through the viewer communication server .

The various components that have been discussed may be made from combinations of hardware and or software including operating systems and software application programs that are configured to implement the various functions that have been ascribed to these components above and in the claims below. These components include without limitation the various mobile phones mobile phone networks wireless instant messaging devices wireless instant messaging device networks webcams viewer stations viewer communication servers streaming video distribution servers real time streaming video search engines cameras source operator interfaces processing systems viewer interfaces network interfaces searching systems storage systems and sensor systems that have been discussed and illustrated.

The components steps features objects benefits and advantages that have been discussed are merely illustrative. None of them nor the discussions relating to them are intended to limit the scope of protection in any way. Numerous other embodiments are also contemplated including embodiments that have fewer additional and or different components steps features objects benefits and advantages. The components and steps may also be arranged and ordered differently.

For example although having been discussed in the context of streaming videos the systems and methods which have been described may be used in connection with other types of streaming media such as streaming audio without a video track streaming text streaming RSS feeds and or streaming information of any other type. These systems and methods may also be used in connection with non streaming content which is rapidly changing such as rapidly changing news reports that are being delivered to a website.

In connection with these other embodiments appropriate modifications may be made to the source operator interface and the network interface that are at the source of these other types of rapidly changing content so as to provide appropriate source alerts including descriptive information and so as to provide and receive other appropriate information all as described above in connection with the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems. The other components which have been discussed in connection with the real time streaming video capture delivery and alert systems may be configured and may function in comparable ways adjusted as needed to adapt to the different type of rapidly changing content.

Also the viewer interface in the real time streaming video search engine may be configured to receive store and process subscriptions to source and or viewer alerts that are received by the real time streaming video search engine that match or closely match specified search criteria such as the search category . As part of this the source operator interface may be configured to receive one or more addresses to which such alerts should be forwarded such as an address of a website an email box an instant messaging device a mobile phone and or a stationary phone. In the event that the remote device is a phone the source operator interface may be configured to receive and store the phone number of the phone to deliver notice of each matching alert by dialing the phone number and after it is answered to provide notice of the alert in an audible or if requested and compatible with the phone visual message. If the phone or other remote device is capable of displaying the streaming video and if requested by the prospective viewer of the alert notice the processing system of the real time streaming video search engine may be configured to cause the streaming video to be delivered in real time to the prospective viewer.

The phrase means for when used in a claim embraces the corresponding structures and materials that have been described and their equivalents. Similarly the phrase step for when used in a claim embraces the corresponding acts that have been described and their equivalents. The absence of these phrases means that the claim is not limited to any of the corresponding structures materials or acts or to their equivalents.

Nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is recited in the claims.

In short the scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended to be as broad as is reasonably consistent with the language that is used in the claims and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents.

